Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:     20622
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 2513-MAI)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR18.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
June 20, 2000
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (Mk)
At Appraisal US$1 = MK 4.00
At Completion US$1 = MK 45.70
WEIGHTS AND MESAURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1st - June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADD              Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC           Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
APIP             Agricultural Productivity Investment Programme
BDU              Business Development Unit
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
DEMATT           Development of Malawi Traders Trust
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
GOM              Government of Malawi
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              Intemational Development Association
IFAD             Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
IDA              Intemational Development Agency
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MFSP             Mudzi Financial Services Project
MOAI             Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MRFC             Malawi Rural Finance Company
NGO              Non Governmental Organizations
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
RBM              Reserve Bank of Malawi
RFSP             Rural Financial Services Project
SACA             Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
USAID            United States agency for Intemational Development
WB               World Bank
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager/Director:    Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jorge A. Mufioz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                       4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         9
6. Sustainability                                                            10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                             12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                            12
9. Annexes
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators:                                         15
Table 1: Outreach Indicators
Table 2: Sustainability Indicators
Annex 2a Project Costs and Financing,                                        16
Annex 2b Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                           16
Annex 2c Project Financing by Component                                      16
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis                                               17
Annex 4a Bank Inputs: Site Visits                                            18
Annex 4b Bank Inputs: Staff                                                  18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components         19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                            20
Annex 7. Supplementary Tables                                                21
Annex 8. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Annex 9. Government of Malawi's Project Completion Report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1.     Project Data
Name: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES                             Credit 2513-MAI
Number:
Country/Department: MALAWI                                            Region:  Eastem & Southem
Africa
Sector/subsector: AC - Agricultural Credit; FS - Financial
Sector Development
Key Dates
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/24/91                            Effective:  07/16/93           09/30/96
Appraisal:  03/01/93                               MTR:  11/22/95             11/30/96
Approval:  06/15/93                             Closing:  12/31/96            12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Govemment of Malawi/Malawi Rural Finance Company
Other Partners:
STAFF                    Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:          Callisto Madavo                          Kim Jay Cox
Country Manager:         Barbara Kafka                            Steve Danning
SectorManager:           Sushma Ganguly                           Chaim Helman
Team Leader at ICR:      Jorge A. Munioz
Team Leader of Appraisal                                          N. Okidegbe
ICR Primary Author:      Tim Lamrock (FAG)'
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=~Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S (with qualification)
Sustainability: L (with qualification
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S (marginally)
Borrower Performance: S (marginally)
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No                      No
FAO/CP This ICR is based on a draft prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, led by Mr.
Lamlock, which carried out an ICR mission to Malawi from March 20 to 3 1St, 2000. The Mission's Aide
Memnoire is included as Annex 8 to this report. The ICR was finalized by Jorge A. Munioz (AFTRI) and Stanley
Hiwa (AFMMW), with contributions from Steven Jaffee (AFTPS).



3.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality Entry
3.1    Original Objective:
The main development objective of the project was to improve access to financial services for the
rural sector on a sustainable basis. The overall strategy was to corporatize and convert the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) into a limited liability finance company (Malawi Rural
Finance Company - MRFC) for eventual privatization and conversion to a privately-owned rural bank.
The other stated objective was to improve the policy and institutional framework for financial
intermediation by supporting the development of linkages between the formal and informal financial
sectors, and strengthening related non-financial institutions serving the rural sector.
The main objective was clear, concentrated on improving the impact and securing sustainability
of rmral financial services, and built on the experience of previous rural credit projects2. The initiative
formed part of continuing efforts in Malawi to assist smallholder farmers to increase their incomes
through the use of purchased inputs and to enable a diversification of income in rural areas by financing
the start-up and expansion of micro and small non-farm business activities. The design of the project was
based on the perceived satisfactory experience of SACA, through which large numbers of farmers were
organized into groups and provided with loans and achieved, for a period of time, loan recoveries that
exceeded 90%. However, the SACA program was based on interest rate and crop input price subsidies
and harsh, politically-backed methods of loan recovery. SACA had been apart of the Ministry of
Agriculture and rural credit was thoroughly integrated into farm extension activities. The underlying total
costs of the rural credit program were unknown. Achieving sustainability in rural financial services
required that the new financial intermediary operate autonomously, that rural credit and extension be
formally de-linked, that the company obtain high recovery rates, and that it apply commercial principles
to its operations. It was believed that SACA would need to be converted into a private rural bank to
ensure its sustainability. The project design provided for this transfomiation to take three years.
The objective of a commercially-run, rural financial intermediary was ambitious, given the
relatively weak state of the Malawi economy in the early 1990s, as well as the weak human resource base
of the implementing agency. This challenge was even greater since MRFC was formed at a time of major
political change and came to operate within a very volatile macroeconomic and sectoral environment.
The original three year time horizon for transforming SACA into a private niral bank was unrealistic.
However, the broader objective of establishing a commercially-viable rural financial institution, catering
to smallholder farmners and small rural businesses, was appropriate.
The second objective was not as clear and was too broad. The improvement of the policy and
institutional framework for rural financial intermediation was a valid objective, yet this falls largely in the
domain of public policy and should have therefore been the responsibility of the Government. No specific
provisions were made for within the project to directly assist consensus-building and policy-making on
rural finance. Instead, a responsibility for creating inter-organizational linkages was given to a new
Business Development Unit within MRFC and it was assumed that, through such linkages, there would
be improved interaction between formal and informal financial institutions. Even if this were to occur, it
was not appropriate for a unit of MRFC to be leading a wider process of policy development for rural
finance. Any public role was inconsistent with the activities of a Company that was working its way
toward a private sector status.
3.2    Revised Objective:
The assumption in the SAR that MRFC would start from a solid foundation was undermined by
the virtual collapse of SACA in 1992/93 following a drought in 1991/92 and the politicization of credit in
the run-up to the 1994 elections. More than 80% of SACA's loan portfolio from the 1991/92 and 1992/93
seasons was in default. The impact of this collapse on the project became clear between the time of
appraisal and effectiveness. Whilst the project documentation unden-vent no formal revisions, it was clear
2 In particular, the Bank-supported Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr 185 1 -MAI)
2



that the first and most critical step in project implementation was to rebuild a system of small farmer
credit and to re-establish a culture and system for credit repayment. The perceived vacuum in small
farmer credit was a major factor behind the decision on the part of the Bank's management to go ahead
and declare the project effective in 1994 despite all the prevailing uncertainties.
Such a major change in operating circumstances should have ordinarily led to a re-appraisal of
the project. This was not done. Even without a re-appraisal, there should have been a formal reassessment
and restatement of the project's objectives, time-frame, and performance targets. This would have
provided a realistic framework for implementation and facilitated subsequent supervision and ratings.
The major changes in the country's political and economic circumstances had a substantial impact on the
operations of MRFC and on its own scope for growth and institutional development. Although a formal
restmicturing of the project never took place, from the time of the mid-term review it was recognized that
the 'private rural bank' solution might be both unrealistic and inappropriate, especially given MRFC's
clientele and its important 'public' or 'developmental' role in the rural economy. During the last two
years of project implementation efforts were made to promote a dual commercial/developmental mission
for MRFC and to lay the basis for an altemative governance and ownership structure for the company
which might involve one or more strategic partners.
3.3    Original Components:
The project originally had three components: (i) institution building (US$ 16.7 million with US$
8 million IDA financing) to corporatize and convert SACA into MRFC, and to use various institutions,
including the Development of Malawi Traders Trust (DEMATT), to assist in preparing investnent
proposals for agricultural, small and micro-enterprises and to provide related training and advisory
services; (ii) a line of credit component (US$ 20 million with US$ 17 million with IDA financing) to
finance the short-term loan requirements of farm and non-farm rural activities provided under a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Reserve Bank of Malawi and MRFC3; and (iii) a pilot program
component4 to support innovative approaches to providing financial services to rural women
entrepreneurs.
During the project's implementation period, MRFC was also the implementing agency for the
IFAD-financed Mudzi Financial Services Project (MFSP). This project was designed to provide credit to
both farm and non-farm activities in a manner similar to RFSP, but to poorer groups for whom the
requirement of collateral was waived. MRFC managed this portfolio on an agency basis for a fee. The
Mudzi project has provided support to building the institutional capacity of MRFC in terms of technical
assistance, equipment and systems development.
3.4    Revised Components:
The components were not revised, although some resource re-allocations were made within the
institution-building component and between this and the line of credit. The pilot program to support rural
women entrepreneurs was essentially developed under the Mudzi Financial Services Project.
3.5    Quality at Entry:
An assessment carried out in 1999 by the Bank's intemal Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
concluded that the quality at entry for this project was poor. QAG determined that the design of the
project was not sound, especially with regard to the unrealistic expectation of converting SACAIMRFC
into a private rural bank within a relatively short time period. The QAG also noted that the overall
macroeconomic and policy environment had changed significantly after appraisal and that the project was
not ready for implementation, which led to a gap of 15 months between project approval and
effectiveness. The ICR reaches the same conclusions, additionally supported by the finding that the
assumption in the SAR that the repayment experience of SACA would continue following major political
Term of I5 years, with a 10 years grace period. The interest rate would be the RBM-determined reference rate, an average of
the prevailing rates payable by the two commercial banks on savings.
'This was to support the development of new products and services and required no a-priori specification or budget allocation in
the SAR.
3



and structural change was proved to be invalid before effectiveness, that the delay in effectiveness was
caused mainly by the changes and uncertainty in the project's operating environment due to the collapse
of SACA, and that the component to achieve improved policy and institutional linkages in the rural
financial sector was wrongly designed. However, under the supervision of the Bank, there were changes
to the strategy and targets of the project in line with the changed implementation circumstances so that,
whilst the strict design and description of the project was deficient, its implementation satisfactorily
followed a more pragmatic approach with more realistic actions and targets.
4.     Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4.1    Outcome/Achievement of Objectives:
The project supported the restoration of the smallholder farmer credit system during the mid-
1990s, rebuilding upon elements of the SACA staff and institutional structure, yet applying a new set of
operating principles to better ensure sustainability and transparency. While it was not anticipated at
appraisal, the operations of MRFC proved instrumental in the take-off of smallholder burley tobacco
production in the wake of structural adjustment reforms. This is one area where the Bank's contribution
to the country's liberalization process was not limited to balance of payments support, but actually
included significant assistance aimed at strengthening the emerging private sector. MRFC provided
essential working capital for a large proportion of the newer smallholder and small estate tobacco
growers, which in turn stimulated the emergence of the private Intermediate Buyer system in tobacco
marketing. MRFC credit provided the impetus and structure for an intensive effort-supported by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation-to form and train farmer clubs. Many such clubs have received
other types of support and are now aiding their members in input procurement, crop transport, and the
marketing of different commodities. Survey and other evidence point to the beneficial effects of MRFC
loans on smallholder client incomes and savings. The net profit of burley tobacco for an average MRFC
smallholder client (cultivating 0.2 ha) was estimated5 at US$ 132 during the 1998/1999 seasolk. MRFC
finances more than half of country's organized smallholder burley producers. During the 1998/99 season,
MRFC financed roughly 25% of Malawi's total burley production, thus directly contributing to the
generation of some US$ 39 million in foreign exchange eamings. These activities have injected some
US$ 20 to $30 million annually into the smallholder rural economy. MRFC's impact in small business
development has been more modest, although the company's financial services have provided improved
liquidity to crop trading networks in recent years.
The project was successful in creating, implementing, anid strengthening a rural financial
institution that has operated on commercial principles', while retaining a focus on smallholder farmers
and small business in a rural development setting. It was successful in formally de-linking credit from
extension, although MOAI extension officers remain important in the process of group training. The
emphasis on autonomy (especially in matters of lending policy and decision-making), despite the evident
pressures of Malawian politicians during a period of substantial adjustment and structural change in the
agricultural sector, and the decision to adopt and implement selected commercial principles proved
valuable in progressing towards the project's objectives and helped in ensuring its sustainability during a
period of volatile and generally unfavorable circumstances. There was a constant effort to enforce a
discipline of prudent financial management and to improve MRFC's products, loan recovery and client
relations. On the negative side, MRFC has not developed effective local savings services, and was only
marginally successful in creating a diversified risk profile in its lending operations as the project
maintained a heavy bias towards rural lending to smallholders with one cash crop (tobacco), a risky
endeavor for a commercially-oriented institution. During the implementation of the project, it became
clear that MRFC could not operate as a profit-maximizing company if it were to continue to serve the
This is likely to drop by more than 30% this year, as tobacco prices are averaging only US$0.90 per kg,, down from an average
of US$ 1.38/kg. in 1999.
6 As a reference, Malawi's per capita income was estimated at US$ 190 in 1998/99.
7 Including the application of commercial interest rates, the need for financial or physical collateral for loans, economic and
financial evaluation of proposed crop and business activities, and no loans to past defaulters unless they participate in a loan
restructuring and repayment program.
4



rural farming population, and the strategy that was followed was to apply, as far as possible, commercial
principles to a development role.
The project was successful in re-establishing a smallholder farmer credit system. This has had a
major impact in facilitating the rapid growth of export-oriented smallholder farmers and increasing niral
incomes in Malawi. MRFC's operations are likely to continue in the short-term, but the long-term future
of these operations, and the achievement of the main development goal of the project, sustainability in
rural financial services, is doubtful and continigent on the decisions to be taken on the strategic options
and other matters (see section F. Sustainability). At the time of writing the ICR, processes to examine
these issues are underway and the operating experience of MRFC in the next twelve months without
Bank supervision will be crucial in determining its future. It is considered too early to accurately assess
the final outconme, and the likely longer-term future of MRFC. For these reasons, the outcome of the
project is provisionally rated as satisfactory, with the qualification that this assessment needs to be
reviewed in twelve month.s time to take these decisions into account. The following would need to be
present at this time to maintain this rating: (i) continued expansion in outreach to the rural sector and
improvement in loan recovery resulting purely from actions of MRFC in the absence of Bank
supervision; (ii) continued profits from operations; (iii) responsible cost control; (iv) satisfactory
resolution of issues concerning the future financial and technical partnerships currently under discussion;
(v) determination of a plan for supervision of MRFC under Malawi legislation'; and (vi) continued
commitment of the Government to support, or at least not to disadvantage, MRFC in the context of future
policy movements and donor-supported activities in rural finance. Non-perfonnance in any of these areas
would make the sustainability of MRFC in the longer-term unlikely.
4.2    Output by Components:
Institutional Development: MRFC: The project was instrumental in creating the Malawi Rural
Finance Company as a private limited liability company registered under the Companies Act. The net
value of SACA's assets and liabilities that were transferred as a Government contribution to the project
was MK 45 million (US$3 million equivalent at the time of the conversion). MRFC commenced
business in October, 1994 with expatriate technical assistance in two key positions - General Manager
and Financial Controller. The project supported MRFC with vehicles, equipment and supplies. A Board
of Directors was appointed which enabled MRFC to operate and take decisions independently of
Government. Significant investment was made in creating the maniagement and systems capacity of
MRFC, and the project was successful in creating the Company as a commercially run institution. While
MRFC independently adopted its lending policies, there remained inevitable ties with Government. The
Govemment retained a 100% shareholding. Operational cooperation witlh the Ministry of Agriculture
(and several other Ministries) was important, most significantly in the fonnation and training of farmer
clubs. The vast majority of MRFC field and branch offices were located at Ministry of Agriculture ADD
offices.9
The majority of staff of MRFC initially came from the SACA program of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and a corporate culture change was needed to refocus staff towards commercial practices and
attitudes. This was a high risk factor for the company's development, and the caliber and vision of the
management of the company would be crucial in this challenging role. In addition, there was no provision
in the project to establish new branch and field offices separate from those of the Ministry of Agriculture.
In spite of the extra costs that would have been incurred, it could be argued that this would have been
desirable for three reasons: (i) to create the perception in the minds of the borrowers that MRFC was not
a continuation of SACA, and that strict repayment discipline and full commercial principles would be
employed; (ii) to clearly identify the cost of operating a branch network which would otherwise remain as
The current institutional and legal status of MRFC does not compel any Government authority to supervise it.
Dmuing the project's implementation, MRFC was also the implementing agency for the WFAD-supported Mudzi Financial
Services Project. This project was designed to provide credit to both farm and non-farm activities in a manner similar to
RFSP, but to relatively poorer beneficiaries for whom the requirement of collateral was waived. MRFC managed this
portfolio on an agency basis for a fee, and therefore the assets and liabilities of the Mudzi project do not fonm part of those of
MRFC. The Mudzi project has contributed to some innovations, yet it has consumed a large amount of MRFC management
attention and almost completely monopolized the efforts of MRFC's Business Development Unit.
5



a "subsidy" from the Govemment to MRFC; and (iii) to create identifiable "assets" that could be valued
in the context of a shift to private ownership. This issue should have been considered more thoroughly by
the senior management of MRFC as a necessary step in improving its knowledge of its customers and its
ability to manage loan recovery, but the costs of so doing would have been high.
The project provided funds for the Development of Malawi Traders Trust (DEMATT) to
undertake the preparation of investment proposals for potential clients of MRFC. DEMAIT did
undertake some training for MRFC staff, but no investment proposals were prepared. More generally,
MRFC failed to take advantage of the project resources available for consultancy support. The resistance
of management and the Board to drawing upon external (paid) advisors, was one factor which contributed
to an over-dependence on the part of MRFC on technical and other advice from the World Bank.
The original objective of tuming MRFC into a private bank was never formally changed,
although by the time of the mid-tern review (and indeed earlier) there were discussions about whether it
would be more advantageous that MRFC be registered and supervised as a 'non-bank financial
institution' rather than as a 'bank' under Malawi law. Subsequent discussions focused on the feasibility
and desirability of privatizing the company. To most of the concerned stakeholders, a pure privatization
was not considered an appropriate direction for MRFC. It was agreed that an Options Study be prepared,
under the auspices of the Privatisation Commission, to explore various institutional options and make
recommendations to Government. A considerable delay occurred in the negotiations between the
Privitisation Commission and the selected consulting firm, such that the Options Study had not yet begun
by the closure of the RFSP. In the meantime, it is 'business as usual' for MRFC with the exception that it
no longer is formally supervised by IDA.
Policy and Institutional Linkages: The operations of MRFC were greatly affected by a range of
agricultural and financial sector policies, and a considerable amount of Bank supervision time was spent
attempting to improve the policy and institutional environment. The emphasis of the project was on
commercially-based operations and it was not appropriate that MRFC would undertake activities that
were clearly the responsibility of Government. However, the project did provide an opportunity for the
Bank and MRFC to participate in the national debates on wider institutional and policy issues, such as
interest rate policies, credit guarantee schemes, the choice of credit vs. grants for very low income
farmers, tobacco marketing arrangements and costs, foreign currency or foreign exchange-linked lending
by financial institutions, and drought risk management in relation to agricultural credit. The commercial
principles upon which MRFC was operating were a subject of much policy debate within Malawi. Efforts
were made in promoting the continuation of reforms to improve market access and marketing efficiency
for tobacco, raising awareness of the need for drought and exchange rate risk management measures, and
promoting an approach which makes clear policy and program distinctions between farm credit and rural
safety nets (including grants). The impact of the project on policy and institutional reform was greater in
terms of preventing the back-sliding on sectoral policies or minimizing the potentially damaging effects
of certain govemment initiatives than on the design or implementation of new policy reforms in the
financial sector. In spite of this effort, the whole policy and planning area for rural financial services
within the Government remains weak. Several other credit/finance schemes were implemented during the
project with different terms and conditions which had a negative impact on MRFC, and which placed at
risk MRFC's (and others') efforts to create a strict repayment discipline in rural areag°
The project design did not make adequate provision for actions to affect the wider institutional
and policy framework for rural finance. There was an expectation that MRFC's Business Development
Unit would strengthen inter-organizational linkages and perhaps foster dialogue on broader policy issues
in rural finance. In practice, the BDU focused its activities on staff training anid MRFC loan product
development, with most of its efforts devoted to the Mudzi Project. Once the Mudzi procedures and MIS
" For example, both the Agricultural Productivity Investment Programme (APIP) and the Agro Inputs Fund operated with non-
commercial interest rates and with a large measure of loan default guarantee from Government. 1lhese provided the private
sector operators (i.e. fertilizer companies) of these schemes advantages over MRFC. Repayment rates under these schemes
were comparatively poor despite the favorable terns offered to farmers.
6



arrangements were put in place, the BDU was essentially closed and its functions absorbed elsewhere in
the company.
Line of Credit: As a result of the collapse of SACA, when MRFC started its operations in 1994,
its initial outreach covered only about 50,000 farm household beneficiaries. Economic reforms at the time
altered the economics of maize production such as to make it financially marginal for farmers to borrow
money to implement the recommended maize technology package. The resulting shortfall in demanid was
made up through the requirements for working capital of emerging small-holder tobacco growers. Over
the next two years, this outreach increased two and half times to approximately 120,000 households,
including a small number of borrowers under the Mudzi program. Over the subsequent three years,
MRFC's agricultural outreach has remained within the range of 100,000 to 140,000 (including Mudzi
borrowers). This outreach is partly a result of demand and partly as a result of MRlFC lending policies.
Demand has been influenced by prevailing interest rates and input and crop prices and by competition
from otlher soturces, both the commercial banks and various govemnment-backed schemes.
With liberalization came a relaxation of the former exclusion of smallholders from growing burley
tobacco. This provided a major opportunity for some small farmers to engage in the production and direct
sale of a profitable export commodity. One key constraint they faced was access to operating capital. Thus,
MRFC was instrumental in facilitating this process which in the course of just a few years would
significantly change the structure of burley tobacco production and marketing in Malawi. Seasonal lending
operations started in the 1994/95 cropping season. Seasonal loans were provided to fanners' clubs
(consisting of some 15-17 members) and to small estates (i.e. farms with some 10-25 hectares of land).
The core of the agricultural lending was for inputs for tobacco and maize production, yet a small
proportion (i.e. 15-25%) of MRFC's agricultural portfolio was for otlher crops (i.e. cotton, rice, tea,
spices) and livestock enterprises (especially poultry). Annex 7, Table S 1 shows the progress in
implementing seasonal loans. Overall loan recoveries have fluctuated between 72% and 96% during the
project, with an unweighted average loan recovery rate of 85%W1 Although this result was below the SAR
target of 95%, it is better than the performance of other Malawi financial institutions during this volatile
period. Seasonal loans reached a peak in 1998/99 at MK 480 million, up from MK 191 million in
1997/98, but with much of the increase due to the dramatically higher cost of inputs, and only a relatively
small increase in outreach, 110,000 beneficiaries as compared with 92,000. In 1999/00, some MK 373
million has been lent to an estimated 83,500 beneficiaries.MRFC's average loan size is small in per
capita terms, largely explained by the country's extremely low per capita income. The ratio of its loan
size to per capita income is 40%, comparable to 41% for other rural or microfinance institutions.
The commercial loan portfolio consists of individual business loans, group-based business loans,
personal loans to employees of organizations, Mudzi group-based business loans administered under the
IFAD Loan. Annex 7, Table S2 summarizes the commercial loan portfolios in MK million (and numbers
of loans) consolidated for all MRFC branches. MRFC has revamped its lending operations for business
loans to improve the quality and sustainability of such lending. As a result of these changes, the nominal
value of loans made and the number of beneficiaries fell in 1998/99 from the previous year. This
restructuring has improved the quality of the commercial loan portfolio. The percentage of loalis past
maturity for personal and business loans has dropped from 12% in 1996/97 and 25% 1997/98,
respectively, to 2% and 10% in 1998/99 (Annex 7, Table S3). Commercial/business loans (primarily for
crop trading, making and repair of farm implements, and retail shops) constituted around 15% of the
MRFC total loan portfolio in 1998/99. The proportion for 1999/2000 will likely be just over 20%.
L MIRFC has experienced three very good years and two years during which its loan recoveries were below 80%. One of these
two poor seasons was 1995/96 when MRFC undertook a huge expansion in lending at a time when it was simultaneously
cutting large numbers of (SACA-inherited) staff. The outreach expansion overwhelmed the company's oversight capacity
and compromised its performance. Loan recoveries also fell short during the 1998/99 season for a number of reasons largely
outside of the company's control (including a drought in one part of the country, very adverse commodity price movements
at one point in the season, and the failure on the part of the public Smallholder Tea Authority to repay MRFC for loans
already repaid (to STA) by farmers.
7



Pilot Program for Women Entrepreneurs: The activities for this component were subsumed
under the Mudzi project. The vast majority of Mudzi clients are women, while the proportion of
beneficiaries under the RFSP lending has generally been in the range of 35-45% (lower than the 57%
international average for other microfinance institutions). There was an RFSP loan covenant that a
women entrepreneur action plan be prepared and it was assumed that any actions would form part of
MRFC's overall micro/small business strategy. This was subsequently overtaken by several events. One
was the crisis management/ rebuilding focus of MRFC's early operations and the second was the
emergence of a plethora of new donor-supported schemes to assist income-generating activities among
women. Later on, MRFC saw little reason to develop a specific action plan, especially because already a
majority of its business loan clients (including Mudzi) were women. In 1999 a consultant did carry out a
study for MRFC but there has yet been little impact from this work.
4.3    Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return/Cost Effectiveness.
Neither a net present value nor an economic rate of return for the project were calculated at
appraisal. Recent studies on the financial viability of agricultural enterprises in Malawi indicate that
tobacco is the most financially attractive smallholder crop, and that its export market price can support
the use of purchased inputs. With the rise on price of inputs, particularly fertilizer following
liberalization, most smallholder crops now have reduced financial viability to the extent that the use of
fertilizers is not feasible, particularly for food crops.
The following observations on cost effectiveness are relevanit. In the Malawi context, at the time
the project was appraised in the early 1990s, there were probably three options available to the Bank for
providing agricultural input credit to smallholders: (i) creating of a separate financial institution that
interacts between farmers and inputs supply companies; (ii) modifying the operating procedures of a
Ministry of Agriculture-based institution; and (iii) supporting a variety of small, localized savings and
credit organizations piloting various schemes. Option (ii) would not have been financially sustainable and
it went against the principles of the policy reforms being pursued. Option (iii) has been pursued by other
donors, notably USAID, with limited success. Therefore, the creation of MRFC and the building of its
capacity through the project was considered to be the appropriate path and, whilst there was no analysis
of these options at appraisal, it was probably justified.
However, the cost effectiveness of creating a separate institution for the provision of agricultural
input credit needs to be considered in the light of the economies that can be achieved by linking credit
services with input provision. This option may not have been available in the early 1990s, as input
supply for smallholders was still dominated by state-owned institutions, especially ADMARC. So, like
option (ii), providing credit linked to ADMARC input supply would have gone against the process of
reducing the role of the State and allowing the entry of private sector finns. One way that the project
increased the cost-effectiveness of credit delivery was by using the existing ADD facilities.
4.4    Financial Rate of Return:
No financial rate of return for the project was calculated at appraisal, but an indicator for
financial performance of MRFC was set as the after-tax return on investment of 5%. MRFC's current rate
of return on investment is 6%. This assessment is nominal. When adjusted for inflation and exchange
rate movements, the overall perfonnance of the Company is less encouraging, as the asset base is
declining in real terms and reducing its capacity to loan finance largely imported inputs. However, the
most significant financial returns of the project were those captured by beneficiary farmers. For examnple,
during the 1998/1999 season, net profits from burley tobacco alone by MRFC clients totaled some US$19
million.
4.5   Institutional Development Impact
The project was successful in creating MRFC as a commercially-oriented institution serving
smallholder farmers. The rating is satisfactory.
8



5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1    Factors outside the control of Government or the Implementing Agency
With smallholders entering burley productioni, the stop order system operated by Auctioni Holdings
Limited provided an effective mechanism for loan recovery which had a major positive impact on the
feasibility of advancing credit to smallholders.
*  The oligopsonistic tobacco marketing system (with a marketing single channel through the auction stage)
resulted in lower than equivalent world prices being offered, and high charges for sales commissions and
stop order fees. There remain inefficiencies in the collection, grading, baling and transport systems that
often downgrade tobacco, resulting in lower prices to farmers. There were incentives for farmers to sell
to intermediate buyers thereby by-passing the stop-order mechanism, and resulting in increasing loan
default.
*  Farm margins and profitability dropped over time, particularly for food crops. With the deteriorating
exchange rate, fertilizers rose in price, up more than double in 1998. Food and cash crop prices did not
show the same relative increases and therefore financial margins on agricultural production were
reduced, which in turn reduced the feasibility of using purchased inputs on credit, especially at high
interest rates.
5.2    Factors generally subject to Government control
- Delays in project effectiveness.
*  Macro-economic instability with high inflation, devaluation of the Kwacha and lending rates reaching a
high of 50%. This negatively affected the interest rates charged to customers with a flow-on increased
default rate, and undermined the lending base of MRFC.
-  Weak political commitment of Govenmnent to support MRFC to become a viable rural financial
institution, and lack of a clear policy for rural financial sector intennediation. There was a proliferation
of different input supply/inputs credit schemes implemented by Government and donors during the
project, adding to confusion in the minds of borrowers as to terms and condition of such schemes, and
diminution of the strict repayment discipline being promoted by MRFC.
-  Failure to adhere to time-bound action plans for examnining and working towards furture strategic options
for MRFC in the context of the privatization process.
•  Political interference in the lead up to elections conceming the expectation of farners in participating,
and the repayment obligations of borrowers.
5.3    Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control
There was a commitment of the Board and management of MRFC to pursue the corporate strategy of
MRFC but there was not sufficient effort put into building extemal relationships with key policy-makers,
farmer organizations, local officials, and the media. MRFC also fell short in nurturing a corporate team
effort in staff at all levels.
5.4    Costs and Financing:
The investment costs incurred in building the capacity of MRFC was less than that expected at
appraisal ($11.4 million compared with $16.7 million), but the cost of the line of credit component was as
expected at appraisal (US$ 20 million) (Annex 2a). A reallocation of resources was made in late 1998,
from some of the categories under institutional development to the line of credit.
9



6.     Sustainability
6.1    Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
Sustainability of rural financial services is the core of this project, and it is therefore the major
aspect that need to be assessed in determining the rating of the outcome of the project. The underlying
original target for sustainability of the project was that MRFC would become a private bank. This was an
unrealistic target in the time frame and business environment in which the project was implemented.
Other indicative indicators for sustainability are presented in Annex 1, Table 2. The record is mixed.
Loan repayment rates have met or exceeded the original target in two out of five years of operation. The
proportion of business loans past maturity was very high in the early years but has dropped significantly,
and by 1998/99 was at the target. The record on financial indicators is also mixed, for even when the
return on equity (in Kwacha terms) was within expectations, in real tenns, the return has been smaller or
negative.
In the year 1998/99, the recovery rate was 78% and 84% on seasonal and business loans,
respectively. Total income was MK 357 milliod2 and, after a provision for doubtful debts of MK 143
million, MRFC made a profit after tax of MK 14 million on shareholders funds of MK 170 million. A
similar result is forecast for 1999/2000 where the recovery rate is budgeted at 80%. At the close of the
project, lending rates to MRFC clients were in the range 48% to 51 %, and returms on Treasury Bills
around 40%. This season's income from investment operations will exceed that from lending operations.
With a reduction in lending activities, the net income from investment activities (net of cost of funds) is
forecast at MK 190 million, compared with net income from lending activities of MK 51 million.
In the future, MRFC can be expected to achieve small annual increments in its loan portfolio size
and outreach over the average levels achieved during the last three years. It will be able to break-even or
earn a very small profit, provided that it maintains or exceeds its average loan recovery rate of 85%,
maintains very tight cost management, and that nominal margins on lending and investment operations
remain at around 20% and 10%, respectively. Adverse changes to these parameters would force the
Company into a loss position. Further large devaluation's of the Kwacha could undermine MRFC's
lending capacity, unless the Company is permitted to implement a currency risk management strategy
(such as extending US Dollar-linked loans to finance export-oriented crops). The Company's operations
will continue to face climatic and agricultural price-related risks.
What were the main factors that explain the past sustainability of MRFC and how likely are these
to continue in the future? The main factors that have contributed to the commercial viability of MRFC
over the past six years are: (i) a results-oriented corporate culture, free from political interference, and a
competent and politically astute Board of Directors; (ii) a favorable GOM monetary policy which
allowed high financial retums on Treasury Bills, combined with a strong management and information
system and effective financial management; (iii) profitable cash cropping opportunities for borrowers
with strong demand for loans, combined with a reasonably well functioning tobacco marketing and stop-
order system; and (iv) close IDA oversight and advice of MRFC operations, and broader IDA policy-
related pressure and support for MRFC's interests. Factors (i) and (ii) are likely to continue; (iii) is
somewhat uncertain and risky, as the prospects for significant crop diversification by smallholders are
poor; and (iv) it will be indirect and considerably less intensive.
What is the likely future for MRFC? In the absence of a major devaluation, MRFC should have
adequate resources (from the retained resources from this project and from the on-going IFAD-supported
Mudzi Project) to continue and expand its operations over the next year or two. The project's short-term
sustainability is rated as likely. However, the longer-term sustainability of MFRC is more uncertain due
to the factors set out below and contingent on the operating experience of the companiy in the next twelve
months and decisions to be taken during this time on its future.
12 US$ I =M  46 as at February, 2000.
10



6.2    Transition Arrangementsfor Regular Operation:
The future sustainability of MRFC will depend on the impact on the company of: (i) the
continued macro-economic instability; (ii) the vulnerability of the company's loan portfolio and financial
assets to climatic, price, or exchange rate shocks; (iii) the increased competition which the company is
facing, primarily from publicly-backed subsidy and grant programs in agriculture: (iv) its ability to meet
operation costs in the event of falling general interest rates, and hence reduced lending margins; (v) its
reduced lending capacity through the repayment of the subsidiary loan starting in 2003; and (vi) an
examination of the options for its future.
MRFC needs to implement an effective strategy to increase loan recovery from the present 78%-
80% level towards 90%, to further diversify its loan portfolio, and to ensure that any increase in business
is of the highest quality possible. However, to improve administration of its loans in the field, MRFC
would need to increase its costs, both investment costs in field and branch office capacity (staff training,
loan product development work, improved market understanding, etc.) and operational costs. At present,
MRFC has a considerably lower (7.6) staff expense/total loan portfolio ratio than comparable peer
rural/micro-finance institutions (14) so some expansion may be feasible.
Under the terms of the subsidiary loan agreement between MRFC and the Reserve Bank of
Malawi, repayments of capital would commence in 2003 for a period of five years. The amount of
principal and interest outstanding under the subsidiary loan agreement at Febmtary, 2000 is MK 710
million (US$ 15.4 million). These repayments would represent a heavv drain on the cash flow of MRFC,
and would result in a significantly reduced lending capacity by the end of the repayment period and in
reduced investment income. It is likely that Government will agree to renegotiate the terms of this
subsidiary loan agreement, for keeping these as they are would result in a significant reduction in the
amount of loanable funds to smalHholders. A comparison with other nrral or microfinance institutions
shows that MRFC's asset base is comparatively low as a direct result of operating on borrowed equity.
Most microfinance institutions in developing countries, especially NGOs, receive a significant
proportion, or all, of their equity as a grant. Also, this feature of the financial structure of MRFC will
have a more immediate bearing on the assessments made of MRFC by any potential strategic partner, and
would need to be renegotiated with the Ministry of Finance or refinanced to ensure the maintenance of a
capital lending base.
It is recognized that the business of seasonal agricultural finance to small farmers is high cost and
high risk, and not inherently profitable, and therefore some degree of external "public" financial support
will be required to maintain MRFC in the medium to longer term. Therefore, the future of MRFC will
depend on an analysis of future options, and actions on the part of the Board and management to actively
seek strategic partnerships.
It was envisioned that, by the closure of the project, options for MRFC's future govemnance and
financing would have been explored and that the new governance/ownership structure would be in place
or at least be decided upon. There has been a delay in carrying out the Options Study and thus the project
closes with question marks about future institutional development arranigements. While some fomi of
strategic partnership-involving an injection of new lending resources, some re-negotiation of the
subsidiary loan agreement, and some further technical support-is envisioned, the details have yet to be
worked out. The development of rural financial intemiediation is a high Govemment priority, and will be
included in the future general dialogue between the Bank and the Goven-ment in both a sectoral and
macroeconomic context.
11



7.     Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1    Lending:
As identified by the Quality Assurance Group, the Bank was deficient in the design and
appraisal of the project since the objectives were unrealistic and the project was not ready for
implementation.
7.2    Supervision:
The Bank supervised this project very closely, and provided valuable guidance to MRFC in the
absence of supervision from the Reserve Bank of Malawi. Intensive supervision was required to overcome
design limitations, to maintain effbrts towards reaching unrealistic objectives and, when these were
recognized as unattainable, to assist MRFC and Government to adjust to new targets and strategies.
The future supervision of MRFC as a financial institution is unclear. The withdrawal of direct
Bank supervision has left a vacuum (see footnote 7 above).
7.3    Overall Bank Performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4    Preparation:
Rated satisfactory. Govemment made significant contributions in the original design of the
project, leading a consultative process with key stakeholders.
7.5    Government Implementation Performance:
The Govemment made available the remaining SACA funds ($3 million) as its contribution to
the project cost. The Borrower completed its contribution to the ICR. There has been general compliance
with legal covenants, although with some delays. However, it was slow in meeting the conditions of
effectiveness, and has shown only moderate commitment to the project.
7.6   ImplementingAgency:
MRFC's performance in implementing the project has been satisfactory with the Board and
management demonstrating commitment to the project, and to implementing the principles of commercial
operations and autonomy in the Company.
7.7    Overall Borrower Performance:
Overall, the borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory.
8.    Lessons Learned
The lessons to be learned from this project are:
Commercial banking and microfinance, though different, can be complementary. The vision offered
by the original design of the project required the creation of a microfinance institution and its
development into a full service commercial bank within the spate of three or four years which proved
to be impossible. In addition, MRFC was to adopt a business strategy that focused on small farmer
and small business clients-with the application of a core set of commercial principles. The
implementation of this strategy created significant contradictions and trade-offs as credit demand
outgrew MRFC's potential outreach.
12



*  Support to rural and agricultural finance institutions requires a relatively long-term commitment on
the part of donor organizations. At least a five- to ten-year time horizon may be necessary to
adequately build institutional capacity and enable the piloting of products and outreach before scaling
up. Under volatile economic conditions, the institutions need to develop strategies and coping
mechanisms for which external support may be necessary. Regardless of the quality of its services
and staff, rural/agricultural finance institutions will periodically experience bad years in line with the
fluctuating fortunes of their clientele. This should be assumed in project design and, its occurrence
should not (necessarily) imply that either the project or the institution is 'at risk'.
*  Flexibility is critical in the design of rural finance components and it is ill-advised to ex-ante restrict
the types of clientele and types of activities which the financial institution cani lend to. Market
circumstances will certainly change over the course of the project and new opportunities and new
competition will arise.
*  Large scale institutional seasonal lending to smallholder rain-fed agriculture is a costly and risky
undertaking. Some degree of subsidy, underwriting part of the initial and possibly some of the
operation's administrative and technical assistance costs, may be required if the expected developmental
impact of such an enterprise justifies the costs. This is a good example that is fully consistent with the
provisions contained in Operational Policy 8.30, "Financial Intermediary Lending", which allow for
institution-building grants, provided these are given as part of an agreed institutional development plan.
In addition, the risk element needs to be mitigated by (i) some sort of drought- (or other weather or
market-induced shock) relief insurance mechanism, and (ii) significant portfolio diversification with
strong urban links to offset the high co-variance of risk-exposure among rural borrowers. The project
was successful in providing for the development of an institution which operates according to sound
business principles ("its commercial objective"). It also played a major role in the emergence of a large
export-oriented and commercially-viable smallholder class of farmers ("its developmental objective").
However, the project did not succeed in establishing appropriate risk-mitigation mechanisms to ensure
the long-term sustainability of the institution.
* Agricultural/rural finance should not, generally, form the basis for stand-alone projects. Agricultural
finance is intimately tied up with broader developments in agricultural market development and the
regulations of agricultural markets. The institutional solutions for agricultural credit may well derive
from structural changes in agricultural marketing (either for inputs or commodities) and the dominant
suppliers of agricultural finance may not be financial institutions themselves. This should be carefully
assessed at the early stages of project preparation. In the particular case of MRFC, there were few, if
any, acceptable delivery channels for crop finance in the early 1990s. However, the agricultural
market context of its operations did not feature, explicitly, in project design.
*  High loan recoveries for smallholder farmers can be obtained provided that there is (i) a profitable
lead crop/livestock enterprise, (ii) there is a reliable quasi- or non-market institutional mechanism for
loan collection (i.e., an auction stop order; a contracting organization), and (iii) loan repayment
discipline is not undermined by parallel quasi-credit programs which apply subsidized interest rates
and other preferential terms.
*  In an agriculturally-based economy, rural and agricultural credit will always certainly be highly
politicized. Managing political relationships is therefore critical to credit and institutional
sustainability. It is vital for rural financial institutions to build effective alliances and open channels
of communication with key policy-makers, farmer organizations, local officials, and the media.
MRFC fell somewhat short in nurturing its extemal relationships. As a result, the World Bank
became far greater involved in problem-solving and inter-institutional relations than would be
considered optimal.
*  Savings mobilization lies at the center of much of the 'best practice' literature on rural finance. There
are, however, circumstances where significant attention to savings mobilization may not be
13



appropriate. In MRFC's case, the bulk of its clientele is resource-poor small farmers. Their farming
system and virtually all of their incomes is based upon rainfed agriculture, involving a single short
season of rain and wide inter-seasonal climatic variability. Incomes are very low and little cash
savings are carried from one season to another. Carrying cash in rural Malawi is risky. Also, there is
very limited urban-rural flow of remittances. Were MRFC to promote savings and increasingly rely
upon those savings for its lending resources, it would be amnplifying the effects of periodic drought on
its operations. Drought results in reduced loan repayments and would also result in the simultaneous
withdrawal of deposit savings from its clientele. Mobilizing savings from other types of clients-i.e.
urban residents-would have side-stepped this risk problem, yet would have diverted MRFC's
attention and resources toward urban areas, infrastructure development, etc.
* In circumstances of high inflation and risk of currency devaluation, it may be necessary to move to
foreign currency (-linked) lending in order to preserve the capital of the financial institution and in
order to provide reasonable interest rates to borrowers. This can most easily be applied when
financing the production of exported commodities, especially those already priced in (or whose price
is linked to) foreign exchange.
* The capacity of rural financial institutions or agencies needs to be built with a heavy emphasis at field
level, in the areas of physical infrastructure, field staff training, development of information and control
systems, development of branches as profit centers and payment of staff incentives based on loan
recovery, loan portfolio diversification and savings promotion. Cost efficiency is crucial to success, and
this may increase the importance of information and communication technology in the future.
- The group joint liability principle has a positive impact on loan recovery, but its contribution to this is
unclear. Perhaps the overriding influence on an individual's or group's motivation for repayment is to
ensure qualification for credit for the following season. Automatic loan recovery mechanisms through a
contracting, marketing or processing organization, such as the stop-order mechanism for tobacco, make
credit schemes for cash and industrial crops far more justifiable in terms of sustainability than for food
and other subsistence crops, but provides reduced incentives to broaden the lending base;
* Short-term loan financing (by way of the subsidiary loan agreement) does not create a long-term
capital base for lending operations of a financial institution;
* Financial Institutions should be licensed under the banking legislation of the country from the beginning
to enable continuing and consistent supervision in accordance with the prevailing regulations.
9.     Partner Comments
(a)    Borrower/Implementing Agency: none
(b)    Cofinanciers: none
(c)    Other Partners (NGOs/Private sector): none
10.    Additional information
none
14



Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators
Table l: Outreach Indicators
Indicator    .rigiial. 19.9419  -1995/96  1996197    1997.t9.: 1J998/99
# of Smallholder Clubs for   14,000       2,904    6,009      4,606    4,079      5,452
seasonal loans (Mudzi in    Clubs                  (614)      (945)    (639)    (1,722)
parentheses)
# of Smallholder Club member  400,000   43,560   90,135      69,090    61,185    81,780
beneficiaries (Mudzi in                          (9,210)   (14,175)   (9,585)   (25,830)
parentheses)
% of Club Member            No              36       37         37        39         41
beneficiaries who are women   specific
target
# of Small Estate seasonal loan  7,100    3,310    7,930      6,414    7,449      6,918
borrowers
# of Business Loan clients  800           N.A.      817       1,190     1,834      1,567
(Mudzi in parentheses)                             (678)    (1,991)   (4,796)    (6,234)
Total# of beneficiary                    56,800  132,560    112,102   107,196    143,173
households *
# of Deposit Accounts       No           10,056   19,709     28,899    51,843    61,783
specific
target
- Based on the number of club members and business borrowers plus an estimated four beneficiaries per
estate client given the onward financing of tenant households. The total beneficiary figure does not
include recipients of personal loans. These latter have numbered 5,000 to 10,000 in recent years.
Table 2: Sustainability Indicators
tridicatbr.OrignlTre                    .~41994 , 1995196. 19961.. 19971~  1998199:
95           .   97
Loan repayment rate on          >90%            95        75      89      90        79
seasonal loans
Proportion of business loans    <10%           n.a.       37      30      25        10
past maturity
Gross Margin (Lending rate   No specific target  10        17     24      31        25
- cost of funds)
Staff costs/total loan      No target. Peer     16          5     11       9       7.6
portfolio                   group of 'fully
sustainable
institutions' is 14%
Pre-tax Profit (K million)                     5.0        0.1    9.6   25.0       24.6
Return on Equity                >5%              5          0      5      10        12
Autonomy                     No political      OK      Mudzi    OK       OK        OK
interference in           lending
lending operations        Affected
Shareholding Restructuring   GOM to be reduced to                              Not yet
minority shareholder                               achieved
15



Annex 2a
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million Equivalent)
(see also Table S4)
Institution-Building       $16.7                   $11.4              68%
Line of Credit        $20.0                    $20.6             102%
Total          $36.7                   $32.0              87%
Annex 2b
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ Million Equivalent)
(see also Table S4)
_                                                  :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Z.~G 4ods   -                              l          0.247          0.637    0.405  1.289
4.M..cX~~                                                 0.936    4.792  5.728
0.247         1.573    5.197  7.017
Note: NBF= Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures.
Consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF.
Annex 2c
Project Costs and Financing
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
(see also Table S4)
Institution    8.0    8.7           7.2    4. 2          90%    48%
BuildingI
Line of Credit   17.0    3.0          17.6    3.0           104%   100%1         I
TOTAL    27.0   11.7             24.8    7.2            99%1  62%
16



Annex 3
Cost - Benerit Analysis  Not calculated at    Seete|  
AppraisalI
tEW 2 2  d W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~ IM
17



Annex 4a
Bank Inputs: Site Visits
June/July 1992       FA (2).
~ ?~. ~     B~ ?               March 1994    FA, Ec, C          Not effective
_   n5 ?B g g 2  July, 1994   Fa, Ec, Cr      Not effective
October, 1994        Ec (2)                 U                S
r.         ,  4>    February, 1995       Ec (2)                 U                S
~ 3                        gB % gJune, 1995   Ec(2)                 U                S
1UN  1.1. p   November, 1995         Ec (2)                 S                S
MU0 B,         July, 1996     Ec (2), FA                 S               S
_~i4Tcp. ...                  November, 1996 Ec (2), FA (2),                                  S
May 1997      Ec     rA        )    ,            F
<J>&~ .'> >                January, 1998        Ec, FA                  S                S
June, 1998    Ec (3), FA                  S               S
March, 1999     Ec (2), FA                 S                S
2. .2    |  g           September, 1999        Ec, FA                  S                S
1CR   -7.            E         March, 2000       Ec, Ruiral                SS
UNMEMM                                               __1~~Fiane p._________
* Key to Specialized staff skills:
FA - Financial Analyst
Ec - Economist
Cr - Credit Specialist            _
* * Key to status as shown on PSR/Supervision Form 590
Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staff *
"~~~~~  ~
3                       ~~~~~~~~n/a
=ppi~aVN~g0t~trok                n/a                           361
Supen4sian ~~~~.         n/a                          515
ICR<2aggg s s¢BB ss sassBBB,      8                             40
TotaL5. g: gat:gB%.8E:tx8B¢:.~2BB:                             916
* Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants
3 Subject to qualification and review
18



Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives * / Outputs by Components* *
* Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
S */Relates to the outputs specified in thePADx
1.1, O     W1 x
m  m                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
X t             ~~~~~x
*Relates to the ob~jectives specified in the SAR
**Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD
19



Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank P       sfformance:
Borrower Performance:
(1I) Marginally satisfactory.
20



Annex 7
Supplementary Tables
Table Si: Seasonal loan portfolio status of outreach and recovery as at the end of November each year
1994/95    1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99    1999/00 **
Loans, MK            35         241      166       191        480        373
million
No. of Loan       6,197      13,934   11,003    11,698    12,503      10,065
accounts
No. of clients*    51,058   121,692   94,414    92,247   110,435    83,567
Loan recovery,       92         74        88        89        77         80
* Based on estates (4), tobacco and other clubs (15)
** Estimated (Source: MRFC)
Table S2: Commercial loan portfolios in MK million (and numbers of loans) consolidated for all MRFC
branches as at 29 February, 2000.
Type of loans    1995/96      1996/97        1997/98         1998/99       1999/2000
Personal          -            1  (183)   73 (12,078)   34  (4,258)    15  (1,786)
loans
Business       13  (817)    20 (1,190)   37  (1,834)   32  (1,567)    14   (557)
loans
MUDZI           1  (678)       4 (1,991)   12  (4,796)   21  (6,234)    13  (2,671)
loans
Total          14 (1,495)    25 (3,364)  122 (18,708)   87 (12,059)    42  (5,014)
Table S3: Quality of the commercial loan portfolio in the period 1995/96-1998/99 in terms of loans past
maturity expressed in MK million (as well as percentage of the disbursed loanis) as at 30 September of
each year.
Type of loans       1995/96          1996/97          1997/98          1998/99
Personal              -               0.5  (4)        9.0 (12)         0.6  (2)
Business            4.60  (37)        5.7 (30)         9.1 (25)        2.7 (10)
MUDZI               0.16  (10)        0.5 (14)        2.6 (28)          1.5  (7)
Total               4.76  (33)        6.7 (27)       20.7 (16)         4.8  (5)
21



Table S4: Calculation of Project Costs
Actual Costs in MK 000
Goods                   5,455          0      5,713     3,617      14,198     28,983
Training                 1,632       756        908       347       2,477      6,120
Technical Assistance     1,083      4,342     4,146     8,736      10,573     28,880
Credit                 30,000    180,000    15,501          0     244,722    470,223
Salaries                3,501       8,742    14,502    18,970      27,689     73,404
Operating Costs         8,871      13,509    21,070    32,335      62,163    137,948
Total                   50,542    207,349    61,840    64,005     361,822    745,558
Approx. Exchange         15.04     15.135    15.156    25.989     43.346
Rate
Costs in US$ 000
equivalent
902-04/j52 i:95/9640   96/v70 0 it9A71987 19999 9To
Goods                     363           -       377       139        328       1,206
Training                  109         50         60        13         57         289
Technical Assistance       72        287        274       336        244       1,213
Credit                   1,995     11,893     1,023         -       5,646     20,556
Salaries                  233        578       957        730        639       3,136
Operating Costs           590        893      1,390     1,244       1,434      5,551
Total                   3,361      13,700     4,080     2,463       8,347     31,951
Source: MRFC
22



Annex 8
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Investment Centre Division
MALAWI
Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP)
(IDA Cr. 2513-MAI)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide-memoire
Introduction
1. A missionl from the Investment Centre Division of FAO visited Malawi during the period 20th
to 3 1st March, 2000 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above
project. The mission worked closely with the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) and held
discussions with officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MOAI), the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM). The mission met with staff of donors
and NGOs who have been involved with agricultural credit or inputs supply programs in Malawi,
and with staff from private input suppliers. The Mission visited Kasungu ADD and had
discussions with staff from the MRFC branch and two field offices, and visited fanner clubs that
are clients of MRFC.
2. The mission would like to express its appreciation for the support and assistance given by all officials
and staff of the Govenmment and all interested agencies with whom the mission has been working.
3 . This aide-memoire was the subject of a discussion at a wrap-up meeting of the Mission held on Friday,
3 Ist March, 2000, chaired by a representative of the Permanent Secretary, MOAI. Comments made by
participants and agreed with the mission at that meeting have been incorporated into this final version.
Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
Project Objectives
4. The development objective of the project was to improve the access to financial services for the rural
sector, including women, on a sustainable basis. The overall strategy was to corporatize and convert the
existing Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) into a limited liability finance
company as a first step to its subsequent conversion into a private rural bank. The other stated objective
was to improve the policy and institutional framework for financial intermediation by supporting the
development of linkages between the formal and informal financial sectors, and strengthening related
non-financial institutions serving the rural sector.
5 The main objective was clear, concentrated on securing sustainabiity of rural financial services, and
built on the experience of previous rural credit projectg. The objective was relevant to continuing
'Tim Lamrock, Economist, Investment Centre Division, FAO/World Bank Co-Operative Programme, Rome and Anthon Slangen, Rural
Finance Officer, Agicultural Marketing and Rural Finance Service, FAO, Rome.
In particular the Bank-supported Smaliholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr I 5 I-MAI)
I



efforts in Malawi to find a way to assist farmers in achieving increased farm incomes through the use of
purchased inputs, and to enable a diversification of income in rural areas by financing the start-up and
expansion of micro and small non-fann business activities. The design of the project was based on the
satisfactory experience of SACA, under which the design and management of loan operations through
clubs enabled a large outreach and average recovery rates of about 90%. However, SACA was not
commercially run and was heavily dependent on the Governnent, especially through its support from
the extension service. There was a need to transform SACA into a private rural bank to ensure its
sustainability. The project anticipated that this transfornation would take three years..
6. The second objective was not as clear and was too broad. The improvement of the policy and
institutional framework for rural financial interTnediation was a valid objective, but falls in the public
domain and therefore should have been the responsibility of the Government. However, this
responsibility was given to a Business Development Unit within MRFC on the asstm1ption that it could
recover its costs through charging for its services. There was no identified demand for these services and
this unit could only be expected to concentrate on MRFC's clients and business operations. Any public
role was inconsistent with the activities of the Company working its way to privatization.
Components
7. The project had three components:
(i) an institution building component (US$ 16.7 million with US$ 8 millionIDA financing) to
corporatise anid convert SACA into MRFC, and to use the Development of Malawi Traders Trust
(DEMATf) to assist in preparing investmenit proposals for agricultural, small and micro-enterprises
and to provide related training and advisory services;
(ii) a line of credit component (US$ 20 million with US$ 17 million withlDA financing) to finance the
short-temi loan requirements of farm and non-farm rual activities; and
(iii) a pilot program component3 to support innovative approaches to providing financial services to
rural women entrepreneurs.
8. During the project's implementation period, MRFC was also the implementing agency for the IFAD-
financed Mudzi Financial Services Project (MFSP). This project was designed to provide credit to both
farm and non-farm activities in a manner similar to RFSP, but to poorer groups for whom the
requirement of collateral was waived. MRFC managed this portfolio on an agency basis for a fee, and
therefore the assets and liabilities of the Mudzi project do not form part of those of MRFC. In addition,
the Mudzi project has provided support to building the institutional capacity of MRFC in terms of
technical assistance, equipment and systems development.
xThe cost was not identified in SAR.
2



Assessment of Project Design
9. The components, activities and scale of the project were logical on face value. However, the underlying
assumptions concerning the environment in which the project would be implemented were not realistic,
and the basis for confidence that the good repayment experience under SACA would continue did not
take into account other factors that could reasonably be expected to change.
10. The challenge of converting MRFC into a viable private rural bank was a highly ambitious one for a
newly fomied company to achieve in a short time given that MRFC was formed in a time of major
political change, and macro-economic reform. A smooth passage and higlh political commitment of the
Government to enable and assist MRFC in establishing itself was required.
11. The SAR pointed to the group approach to lending, through the formation of fanner or business clubs,
as the main factor underpinning the loan recovery success of SACA. However, the harsh, politically-
motivated loan recovery methods that werein place during the period up to 1991/92 were also a strong
influence on loan recovery. The assumption in the SAR that MRFC would take over a valuable and
well-performing siiallliolder loan portfolio as a start to its business activities was undermined in
1993/94 with the collapse of SACA due to widespread non-repayment with the advent of market
liberalization and a major political change in the country.
12. The majority of staff of MRFC came initially from the SACA program of the Ministry of Agriculture,
and a corporate culture change was needed to refocus staff towards commercial pmctices and attitudes.
This was a high risk factor for the company's development, and the calibre and vision of the
management of the company would be crucial in this challenging role. In addition, there was no
provision in the project to establish new branch and field offices sepamte from those of the Ministry of
Agriculture. This would have been a desirable feature for two reasons (i) to create the perception in hie
minds of the borrowers that MRFC was not a continuation of SACA, and that strict repayment
discipline and full commercial principles would be employed; and (ii) to create identifiable "assets" that
cotuld be valued in the context of a shift to private ownership.
Quality at Entry
13. An assessment carried out in 1999 by the Bank's internal Quality Assurance Group concluded that the
quality at entry for this project was poor. The reasons for this assessment were that the design of the
project was not sound due to unrealistic expectations regarding the future privatization of MRFC, and
that the project was not ready for implementation which led to a gap of 15 moitlhs between project
approval and effectiveness.
Overview of Project Implementation
Implementation Experience
General
14. The project was appraised in June/July, 1992, approved in June, 1993 and signed on Pt October, 1993.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the non-fuilfillment of the conditions of
effectiveness for the appointment of senior staff of MRFC and the finalization of a subsidiary loan
agreement between RBM and MRFC for the line of credit. A March 1994 review mission
3



identified the collapse of SACA as a major obstacle regarding the effectiveness of the project but
following a public awareness campaign that encouraged repayment of SACA loans, and
assurances from the then Minister of Agriculture that all efforts would be made to recover the
amounts outstanding, effectiveness was declared in September, 1994 when the other conditions of
effectiveness were met.
15. The original closing date was 3 Ist December, 1996, but there were three extensions to the project's
closing date and the project finally closed on 3 st December, 1999. The first extension was to allow for
the delayed effectiveness date, and the two further extensions were granted to allow more time for the
project to pursue the privatization process ofMRFC. There were a total of 13 supervision missions,
including the mid-term review which took place in November, 1996.
Institutional Development
MAFC
16. The project was instrumental in creating the Malawi Rural Finance Company as a private limited
liability company registered under the Companies Act. The net value of SACA's assets and liabilities
that wvere transferred as a Government contribution to the project was MK 45 million. MRFC
commenced business in October, 1994 with expatriate technical assistance in tvo key positions -
General Manager and Financial Controller. The project supported MRFC witlh vehicles, equipment and
supplies, and start-up costs for MRFC branch and satellite offices. A Board of Directors was appointed
which enabled MRFC to operate and take decisions independently of Governmenit. However, there
remained inevitable ties with Govemment, particularly as the Government remained the 100%
shareholder, and as there was a reliance on the Ministry of Agriculture for operational co-operation at
field level. MRFC relied on the activities of Field Assistants to create awareness of MRFC's services, to
fonii clubs and to provide basic training for MRFC's clients. In addition, MRFC set up business in
ADD offices with many of the branch and field office staff being fonier employees of the Government
under SACA.
17. Overall, with Bank support, and later with support from the Institutional Development componlent of
the IFAD Mudzi Financial Services Project, significant investment was made in creating the
management and systems capacity of MRFC, and the project was successful in creating the Company
as a commercially run institution.
18. The project provided funds forthe Development of Malawi Traders Trst (DEMATT) to undertake the
preparation of investmnent proposals for potential clients of MRFC. DEMATT did undertake some
training for MRFC staff, but no investment proposals were prepared.
Policy and Institutional Linkages
19. The project was designed to improve policy and institutional linkages in rural financial intennediation.
This was to be done through a Business Development Unit set up within MRFC which was expected to
serve all financial institutions in Malawi and charge for its services. However, this was a public role, and
inconsistenit with MRFC's vision of operating as a private company. In the end, the BDU existed with
the expatriate TA for two years and concentrated on developing internal systems and procedures for
MRFC. It was then closed. There has been little impact on overall policy and institutional linkages
through this componenlt. The representatives ofMRFC at the wrap-up meeting indicated that there has
been a difference of interpretation at effectiveness placed on this comiponent (i.e. that its purpose was
4



more limited), and that the BDU was wrongly placed in MRFC to achieve the broader objective of
improved policy and institLtional framework for the rural financial services sector.
Line of Crelit
20. Seasonal lending operations started in the crop season October 1994/September 1995. Seasonial loans
are provided to fanners clubs (tobacco clubs and other clubs mainly for maize and cash crops) and
small estates. Moreover, the MRFC administers loans provided to MUDZI clubs under the IFAD
MUDZI Financial Services Project. The following table simmarises the seasonal loan portfolio status
of outreach and recovery as at the end of November each year when most outstanding loans for the
previous season should have been recovered.
_  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99
Loans, MN    {    35     241      166      191     480
million                       _        ___-
No. of Loali   6,197   13,934   11,003   11,698   12,503
accounts
No.ofclientsI 1 51,058   121,692  94,414   92,247   110,435
Loan recovery,    92      74       88      89       77
1/ Based on estates (4), tobacco and other clubs (15); excluding MUDZI
21. A comparison between 1997/98 and 1998/99 shows that:
*  Seasonal loans to tobacco clubs increased from MK 81 million to MK 241 million at the cost of a
deterioration of the loan recovery from 95% to 79%
*  Seasonal loans to other clubs increased from MK 16 million to MK 50 million with a reduction in the
recovery rate from 92% to 63%
*  Seasonal loans to estates increased from MK 93 million to MK 189 million witli a reduction in the
recovery rate from 84% to 78%
• MUDZI seasonal loans increased from MK 14 million to Mk 67 million witli a fall in the recovery rate
from 77% to 49%.
22. In times where MRFC attempted to expand its lending operations, recovery fell. These periods
coincided Nvith increases in interest rates, which would have had a negative effect on loan recovery.
Also, capacity shortcomings in loan administration at field level negatively affected loan recovery,
particularly in 1998/99 when Field Assistance Nvere also involved in the administration of the
Agricultural Productivity Inprovement Programme and the Starter Pack scheme. For the 1999/2000
crop season it had been planned to disburse MK 545 million seasonal loans, but as at 17 March, 2000
MK 418 million loans had been approved and disbursed.
23. The commercial loan portfolio consists of personal loans to employees whereby loan recoveries are
deducted at the source from the salaries paid for by the employers; individual business loans (approved
at MRFC branch and headquarters levels; at branch level they are now only continiued for repeat
borrowers), group-based business loans (started in July 1999); and MUDZI group-based business loans
administered under the IFAD Loan.
24. The following table summarises the expansion of the commercial loans in MK million (and numbers of
loans) consolidated for all MRFC branches as at 29 February, 2000.
5



Type of loans    1995/96       1996/97         1997/98         1998/99         1999/2000
Personal loans     -              i ( 183)      73(12,078)     34( 4,258)      15( 1,786)
Business loans    13 (817)       20 (1,190)     37( 1,834)     32( 1,567)      14 ( 557)
MllDZI loans      I (678)         4 (1,991)     12(4,796)      21( 6,234)      13( 2,671)
Total            14 (1,495)      25 (3,364)    122(18,708)     87(12,059)      42( 5,014)
25. In 1998/99 emphasis has been put on strengthening the lending capacities and procedures of MRFC
instead of expanding its commercial loans. Although this has improved the quality of the commercial
loan portfolio, at the same time it has not contributed to a highly needed diversification of the overall
loan portfolio. Seasonal loans constituted in 1998/99 85% of the MRFC total loan portfolio. For the
year 1999/2000 MK 180 million commercial loans had been planned, out of whlich at the end of
February, 2000, however, only MK 42 million had been disbursed. While the business season is mainly
concentrated in the period February-July it is clear that the target figure for commercial loans and
further diversification of the loan portfolio will not be reached.
26. The next table summarises the quality of the commercial loan portfolio in the period 1995/96-1998/99
in temis of loans past maturity expressed in MK million (as well as percentage of the disbursed loans)
as at 30 September of each year.
Type of loans        1995/96            1996/97            1997/98            1998/99
Personal                -                0.5(4)             9.0 (12)           0.6 (2)
Business              4.6 (37)           5.7 (30)           9.1 (25)           2.7 (10)
M[JDZI                0.16(10)           0.5 (14)           2.6 (28)            1.5 (7)
Total                 4.76(33)           6.7 (27)          20.7 (16)           4.8 (5)
Pilot Program for Women Entrepreneurs
27. The activities for this component were subsumed under the Muzdi project to develop lending
approaches to the majority of Mudzi clients who are women. A study was financed by the project late in
1999, but there has been little impact of this study to date.
Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
General
28. The project went a long way to restoring the access to rural credit following the collapse of SACA
just before effectiveness. The existence of MRFC was crucial in enabling the development of
smallholder burley tobacco production by providing the essential start-up working capital
required, and was therefore a significant contributor to improving the incomes of these
beneficiaries. At the time of closure of the project, MRFC is providing a service to a share of the
nmral population which could not be filled by other existing institutions, agencies or companies in
Malawi.
6



Plolicy and Institutional Linkages
29. There was little impact on overall policy and institutional linkages for the niral finaiice sector as a
whole through the project. The emphasis of the project was on commercially-based operations and
it was not appropriate that MRFC would undertake activities in the public interest. The whole
policy and planning area for rural financial services within the Govemment is weak, and currently
many different credit/finance schemes are in place which have different tenrs anid conditions,
which place at risk the effort to create a strict repayment discipline in rural areas. The Agricultural
Productivity Investment Programme (APIP) and the Agro Inputs Fund both operate under a large
measure of Government guarantee for loan default. This puts the private sector input supply
companies who manage the credit at an advantage over MRFC, in addition to the advantage that is
afforded by the lower thani commercial interest rate structures of these schemes. The credit
activities of the companies involved in the schemes are also to some extent supported by their core
business -- inputs supply and distribution. APIP is neither institutionally or financially sustainable
and a major revision of the program is under way.
MRFC as a private rural bank
30 Thne original objective of tuming MRFC into a private bank by December 1996 was formally
maintained dtroughout the project. However, in the last two years of the project, it was clear that the
target for MRFC to operate as a private bank with registration and supervision under the Banking Act of
1989 was not achievable, that the best that could be achieved was that MRFC would continue as a non-
bank financial institution, that privatization was not feasible and that some strategic partnership would
need to be forned witlh one or more intemational development/ microfinance institutions and the
Government. In this way, further injections of capital and technical assistance could be found. Options
for the future of MRFC will be examined after the closure of the project.
IARFC Financial Position
3 1. In the year 1998/99, the recovery rate was 78% and 84% on seasonal and business loans respectively.
Total income was MK 357 million and after a provision for doubtful debts of MK 143 million, MRFC
made a profit after tax of MK 14 million on shareholders funds of MK 170 million. For 1999/2000, the
recovery rate is budgeted at 80%. Income will reach MK 380 million with a budgeted net profit again of
around MK 14 million after provision for doubtful debts. With a reduction in lending activities, the net
income from investment activities (net of cost of funds) will be MK 190 million, compared with net
income from lending activities of MK 51 million. As at the end of February, 2000, the amount held in
Treasury Bills is MK 428 million witlh loans outstanding of MK 667 million with a provision for loss at
MK 241 million.
Outreach
32. Whilst the stated objectives of the project remained constant, the appraisal targets were scaled down due
to the fact that the portfolio anid outreach that was assumed to be taken over from SACA was far less
than that assumed at appraisal. The targets and actual achievements against these targets for the key
indicators of outreach are set out in the following table.
7



Indicator              Original Target         Revised Target for      Achievement fir         Target for 1999/00
1998/99                1998/99
Outreach Indicator
Year-to year expansion of  MK 158 million, 14,000   MK 1 95m 7,800 clubs    MX 290m, 5,500 clubs.   MK 200m, 3,800 clubs,
season loan porttblio for   clubs, 400,000     and 156,000 beneficiaries  82,000 beneficiaries  57,000 beneficiaries
smalUholder clubs      beneficiaries
Year-to-year expansion in  MK 8 million with 7,700   MK 94m, 10,000 estates  NM  189m; 7,000 estates   MK 173m; 6,100 estates
seasonal and medium    beneficiaries
term loan portfolio for
small estates
Year-to-year expansion hi  MK 3.2 million with  MK 60m with 1,500      MK 6(m                  Currently MK 40m with
business loan portfolio    7,700 beneficiaries  beneficiaries                                 MK 120m expected
Savings services       Increasing percentage of                        20% of the loan portfolio   14% of the loan portfolio
loan portfolio, reaching
25% of the loan portfolio   .
33. 'nhe outreach targets were revised substantially downwards following the collapse of SACA, but the
indicators show that the revised targets for outreach have not been achieved - more worrying is the fact
that outreach is in decline for the year 1999/2000. The appraisal targets for outreach were 400,000 club
beneficiaries and 7,700 estates, but were revised to 156,000 club beneficiaries and 10,000 estates. In
1999/2000, MRFC will have some 3,800 clubs with 57,000 beneficiaries, and 6,100 estates totaling ani
amount of MK 370 m. The appraisal target for business loans was MK 100 m. Business loans of MK 40
m are currently effective, but there are plans to increase to this over MK 15Omn, but will more
realistically reach MK 100 m in nominal terms. The conclusion is that revised outreach targets were not
met, and that business loans will not reach targets in real tenns.
Sustainability
34. The indicators and achievemenits were as follows:
SustainabiSlhy Indicator  Original Target      Revised Target for      Achievement for         Target for 1999/00
1998/98                1998/99
Loan repayments on     Exceed 90% with a target  Unalterd              78%                     80%
seasonal loans         of 95%
After-tax profit; retrni on  Profit each year, (real)  Unaltered       6%                      6%
investment             return on equity greater
than 5%
Dependence on subsidies  Year-to-year reduction,    Unaltered                                  Partially achieved; the
both technical and                                                     futuLre would rely on
financial                                                              further injections of
capital and teclinical
expertise from a
development partner but
on commercial terms.
However, future
profitability is uncetain if
operating conditions
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  change.
8



Shareholding         GOM reduced to a     Unaltered                                 Not achieved;
minority shareholding by                                       privatization not feasible.
1998
35. These indicators show that objective of sustainability of rural financial services, as measured by
loan recovery rates, profitability of operations and future dependence on subsidies, was also not
achieved.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of Government or the Implementing Agency
With smallholders entering burley production, the stop order system operated by Auction Holdings
Limited provided a mechanism for loan recovery which had a major positive impact on the feasibility of
advancing credit to smallholders. The group joint liability principle also had an impact on recovery, but
its contribution to this is unclear;
'The molnopolistic tobacco marketing system results in lower than equivalent world prices being offered,
and high charges for sales commissions and stop order fees. There are inefficiencies in the collection,
grading, baling and transport systems that often downgrade tobacco, resulting in lower prices to
farmers. There are incentives for farmers to sell to intermediate buyers which results in increasing loan
default where a stop order woould otherwise have been effective hi recovering outstanding loans.
-  Farm margins and profitability have reduced, particularly for food crops. With the deteriorating
exchange rate, fertilisers have risen in price, up more than double in 1998. Food and cash crop prices
have not shown the same relative increases and therefore financial margins on agricultural production
have been reduced, which in tum reduced the feasibility of using purchased inputs on credit, especially
at high interest rates.
Factors generally subject to Government control
= Collapse of SACA;
* Delays in project effectiveness;
*  Macro-economic instability with high inflation, devaluation of the Kwacha and lending rates reaching a
high of 50%. This negatively affected the interest rates charged to customers with a flow-on increased
default rate, and undermined the lending base of MRFC;
*  Weak political commitment of Government to support MRFC to become a viable niral financial
institution, and lack of a clear policy for rural financial sector intennediation. There was a proliferation
of different input supply/inputs credit schemes implemented by Government and donors during the -
project, adding to confusion in the minds of borrowers as to tenns and condition of such schemes, and
diminution of the strict repayment discipline being promoted by MRFC;
*  Failure to adhere to time-bound action plans for examining and working towards strategic fuiture
options for MRFC in the context of the privatization process;
*  Political interference in the lead up to elections conceming the expectation of faniers in participating,
and the repayment obligations of borrowers.
Factors generally suibject to Implementing Agency control
9



There was a commitment of the Board and management of MRFC to pursue the corporate strategy of
MRFC but there was not sufficienit effort put into building extemal relationships with key policy-
makers, fanler organizations, local officials, and the media. MRFC also fell short in nurturing a
corporate team effort in staff at all levels.
Sustainability
36. Sustainability of rural financial services is the core of this project, and it is therefore the major
aspect that need to be assessed in determining the rating of the outcome of the project. The
underlying original target for sustainability of the project was that MRFC would become a private
bank. This was an unrealistic target in the time frame and business environment in which the
project was implemented. The indicated targets for sustainability were not achieved.
37. MRFC can be expected to maintain a portfolio of the size and outreach budgeted for 1999/2000. and
make a marginal profit after allowing for 80% loan recovery rates provided operating conditions
remain. This implies firstly that the cost structure of the company is maintained and that nominal
margins on lending and investment operations remain at around 20% aid 10% respectively. Any
adverse change to these parameters would force the Company into a loss position. Also, since the
portfolio is largely lent for tobacco inputs, the climatic, agricultural and price risks are such that the
company could not survive any major set backs in these areas. If and when overall macro-economic
conditions improve, with reduced inflation and lowering of interest rates, this would result in reduced
nominal lending margins which would force a review of the cost structure of the company.
38. There needs to be ani effective strategy for making attempts to increase loan recovery from the present
78%-80% levels towards 90%, to further diversify the loan portfolio, and to ensure that any increase in
business is of the highest quality possible. However to improve administration of its loans in the field
would require additional cost, both investment costs in field and branch office capacity (infrastructure,
systems, training etc) and operational costs.
39. It is recognised that the business of seasonal agricultural finance to small farmers is high cost, and high
risk, and not inherently profitable, and therefore some degree of extemal "public" financial support will
be required to maintain MRFC in the medium to longer termn. Therefore the fiture of MRFC will
depend on an analysis of future options, and actions on the part of the Board and manlagement to
actively seek strategic partnerships. As mentioned above, options for the futtLre will be considered
following the closure of the project.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
40. The Bank was deficient in the design anid appraisal of the project since the objectives were
unrealistic and the project was not ready for implementation. The Bank supervised this project very
closely, and provided valuable guidance to MRFC in the absence of supervision from the Reserve Bank
of Malawi. Intensive supervision was required to overcome the design limitations, to maintain efforts
towards reaching unrealistic objectives and, when these were recognized as unattainable, to then assist
the MRFC and Government to adjust to new targets and strategies.
10



41. This supervision was perhaps too close, in that Bank supervision missions were involved in resolving
issues that should have been handled by the Board and management. This close supervision increased a
perception that MRFC was a 'World Bank" agencyThe future supervision of MRFC as a financial
institution is unclear. The withdrawal of the Bank has left a vacuum. and this responsibility for
this role needs to be assumed by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under the Banking Act.
Borrower
42. The Govemment was slow in meeting the condition of effectiveness, and has shown only
moderate commitment to the project. The Govemment made available the remaining SACA funds
($4.5 million) as its contribution to the project cost. There has been general compliance with legal
covenants, although with some delays. MRFC's demonstrated commitmenit to the project and its
performance in implementinlg the project has been satisfactory.
Observations on Credit Methodologies
Group lending methodology versus stop-orders
43. The effects of joint and several liability and peer pressure of group members are not clear, in particular
under the current conditions of high inflation with lending rates that have increased to about 50% and
declining crop profitability for faniers. While close loan follow-up by MRFC field staff and strong
group leadership are considered essential, it is felt the stop-order system used on the tobacco auction for
the MRFC loan recovery is a greater contributing factor to loan recovery. The recovery rates for last
year for clubs and estates are similar. On the other hand, small farmers can avoid the long delays and
high costs of the auction system by side-selling to intermediaries and a secure system of identity cards
should be introduced together with the development of individual client infomiation (Credit bureau).
44. In the long term, viable rural lending can be only secured by investing in a decentralised banking
infrastructure of the MRFC at field level and by adequately training and supervisin-g field staff. Payment
of loan officers should be made dependent on their loan recovery perfomianice and MRFC branches
should be treated as full profit centres (with loan loss provision taken as a cost) witlh an incentives-based
staff salary svstem.
Loan collateral versus equity contribution
45. Thlere is often some confusion between the sound financing practice that a loan shotuld cover only part
of the total investmnent costs with the borrower contributing the remaining capital, and the insistence by
lending institutions on loan collateral as a mandatory saving deposit. Banks often accept as collateral
onlv real property that should have a sales value equal to or higlher than the loan amount. In group
lending, the joinit and several responsibility of the members constitutes a so-called social collateral,
while in addition the MRFC demands an up-front cash collateral deposit of 15% of the loan. This will
never protect MRFC frilly in the event of default. Borrowers are paid lower rates on their mandatory
collateral savings than on the amrount borrowed and it appears fair to substitute the collateral deposit
with an equity contribution to the investment costs, and instead to accept voluntary deposits that can be
withdrawn in time of liquidity need and receive a market interest rate.
11



Credit in kind versus in cash
46. Currently the MRFC seasonal borrowers receive inputs in kind against input supplier vouchers, while
commercial loans are provided in cash. Rural financial institutions that operate under free market
conditions and provide fuill inter-mediation services of both savings and credit facilities nomially do not
restrict their borrowers to only certain lending purposes. Flexibility in lending terns, short- and tern-
lending, and conditions is in particular critical when competition and new profitable investment
opportunities arise.
Savings
47. There was considerable debate during the project conceming savingsmiobilisation, and this was a poinlt
of disagreement between the Board ofMRFC and Bank supervision missions. Access to safe deposit
facilities and easy witlhdrawal of rural household savings for liquidity and emergency purposes is as
important, and often more in demand, than-the availability of complementary lending resources for
viable investment purposes. At the same time, a financial institLtion that mobilises savings uses a
relative stable and economic source of lending resources. Deposit taking financial institutions are more
demand-oriented and conscious of costs and have a better infonnation on their clients, but at the same
time require higher capabilities of staff and management in maintaining client relationships and
financial and risk management. The diversification of savings and loan portfolios to reduce risk is
crucial, but this could divert attention and resources toward urban areas. infrastnictuLre development, etc,
a.way from a rural focus.
Lessons Learned
48. The lessons to be leamed from this project are:
-  When the project was first extended in December, 1997 and it was evident that the vision of
MRFC as a private bank was not attainable, the project should have been formally restructured at
that time with revised objectives in line with current environment. This would have perhaps given
the opportunity for the project to tun its attention towards assisting the Govemient in pursuing
the project's other objective of an improved policy and institutional framzework, rather thani onlv
pursuing the elusive objective of MRFC as a privatised bank;
•  Rural finance in an agriculturally-based economy such as Malawi is highly politically sensitive.
Considerable effort needs to be made to nurture strong relations with the govenmient and its agencies.
as well as with the donor community and the private sector.MRFC felt limited in this since it was seen
as a World Bank project;
*  A stable and enabling macroeconomic environment is essential for efforts to develop in Malawi a
commercially-mn and cost-effective financiat institution tllat provides viable financial services, that
include both savings and credit facilities, to the rural population. Under the current conditions of high
inflation and lending rates, the potential for profitable investment opportunities both in farm and non-
farm production activities will be extremely limited. This equallv applies to the assessment of potential
equity partners/investors in the financial institution itself;
*  The capacity of rural financial institutions or agencies needs to be built with a heavy emphasis at field
level. In general, much more emphasis should be given to field staff training, development of
infomiation and control systems, development of branches as profit centres and payment of staff
incentives based on loan recovery, loan portfolio diversification and savings promotion.
12



*  Whilst the group liability principle contributed to loan recovery, the existence of the stop-order
mechanism for tobacco was crucial in ensuring high loan recoveries for smallholder farmers under
liberalized market conditions. Automatic loan recovery mechanisms through a contracting, marketing
or processing organization make credit schemes for cash and industrial crops far more justifiable in
tenms of sustainability that for food and other stubsistence crops;
•  Efficient marketing systems are essential to the financial viability of agricultural production, witlh a
flow-on effect on the ability to service agricultural finance;
*  Seasonal agricultural finance centered on small farner clients is not inherenitly profitable no matter how
effective the financial institution is managed. A subsidy element, underwriting part of the operation's
administrative and technical costs will almost certainly be necessary, regardless of the institution's
effectiveness in loan recoveries;
*  Risk strategies need to be considered by financial institutions in circumstances of macro-economic
instability to preserve the lending base of the institution;
*  A diversified portfolio is also a prerequisite for sustainability, and this implies both farm and non-farm
lending for rural clients, and a measure of rural and urban lending as well. There is always a major risk
with climate failure with agriculture, and this is compounded with many other marketing risks when
there is a large exposure to a single crop. Financial institutions lending for agricultural purposes need to
create reserves for default resulting from climatic risks;
*  Where the Govemment supports the development of a commercially-based company or activity, there
needs to be a consistent approach to all such activities and companies through clear policy and
guidelines;
*  Financial Institutions should be licensed under the banking legislation of the country from the
beginning to enable continuing and consistent supervision in accordance with the prevailing
regulations.
Next Steps
49. The mission will submit a draft ICR to the Bank within three weeks. At this time, the document will be
intemally reviewed by the Bank, and will also be submitted to the Government in draft form for
comment.
Lilongwe, 3 lst March, 2000.
13






Annex 9
DRAFT REPORT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE              GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
AND IRRIGATION
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT [PCRJ FOR THE MALAWI RURAL FINANCIAL
SERVICES PROJECT Cr. 2513 - MAI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
PLANNING DIVISION
P.O. BOX 30134,
LILONGWE 3.                                        MARCH, 2000



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Currency                                                                      3
Weights                                                                       3
Fiscal Year                                                                   3
Abbreviations and Acronyms                                                    4
List of Tables in Text                                                        5
List of Tables in Annex                                                       5
Preface                                                                       6
1.0   Introduction and Background of Project                                  9
2.0   Project Objectives                                                      10
3.0   Project Targets                                                         10
4.0   Loan Conditions                                                         10
5.0   Project Cost and Financing                                              10
5.1   Project Cost                                                      10
5.2   Project Financing                                                 12
5.3   Project Financial Progress                                        14
6.0   Project Implementation                                                  16
6.1    MRFC Activities and Organizational Structure              16
6.2   Procurement Component                                             17
6.3   Line Credit                                                       19
6.3.1  Planned Activities and Achievements                       19
6.4   Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey (BIAS)                       20
6.5    General Problems Faced                                           22
6.6   Study Findings under RFSP                                         23
6.7   Banks and Borrowers Performance                                   23
7.0   Critique                                                                24
7.1   Collateral                                                        24
7.2   Interest Rates (%)                                               24
7.3   Farm gate prices                                                  24
7.4   Quality of Inputs (fertilizer)                                    24
7.5   Staff Training Opportunity and Upgrading                          24
8.0   Project Sustainability and Future Operations                            25
9.0    Key Lessons Leamed
10.0  Comments and Conclusion                                                 25
11.0  Recommendations                                                         28
12.0  Annexes                                                                 29
2



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: MK1.00 = 100 Tambalas
Exchange Equivalents of MK to US$ during the Project Appraisal and Implementation period:
1992         US$1.00 =    MK 3.60
1993         US$1.00=    MK4.00
1994         US$1.00 =    MK 7.90
1995         US$1.00=    MK15.00
1996         US$1.00=    MK15.30
1997         US$1.00=    MK15.50
1998         US$1.00=    MK30.00
1999         US$1.00=    MK44.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Ist Oct. - 30th Sept
3



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADD          Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC    Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
APIP         Agricultural Productivity Investment Programme
BDU          Business Development Unit
BIAS         Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey
CBM          Commercial Bank of Malawi
CMEU         Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CSR          Center for Social Research
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DEMATJT    Development of Malawi Traders Trust
EU           European Union
FAs          Field Assistants
GB           Grameen Bank
GOM          Government of Malawi
IDA          Intemational Development Association
IFAD         Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
IDA          International Development Agency
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
ME1\F        Malawi Mudzi Fund
MOAI         Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MRFC         Malawi Rural Finance Company
NBM          National Bank of Malawi
NGO          Non Governmental Organizations
NRDP         National Rural Development Programme
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
OPC          Office of the President and Cabinet
PSAR         Project Staff Appraisal Report
PCR          Project Completion Report
PO           Portfolio Officer
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RBM          Reserve Bank of Malawi
RDP          Rural Development Project
RFSP         Rural Financial Services Project
SACA         Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SACP         Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
USAID        United States agency for Intemational Development
WB           World Bank
4



LIST OF TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1.0    Loan Conditions under RFSP                                        11
Table 2.0    Project Financing Plan                                            12
Table 3.0    Estimated Project Costs                                           13
Table 4.0    Flow of RFSP funds in Mk                                          14
Table 5.0    Profit and Loss Amount Analysis for RFSP                          15
Table 6.0    Funds Allocation Schedule For RFSP - IDA (SDR million)            17
Table 7.0    Loan Repayments against loan Disbursement in Mk and %             20
Table 8.0    National Production for some Food and Cash Crops                  28
LIST OF TABLES IN ANNEX
Annex 1.0    Related Bank loans/credit                                         31
Annex 2.0   Interest Rates charged by MIRFC compared to CBM                    32
Annex 3.0    List of RFSP supervision Missions                                 33
Annex 4.Oa   Actual Allocated Funds Vs Expenditure to Project Closing Date     34
Annex 4.Ob   Reallocated Funds Vs Expenditure to Project Closing Date          34
5



PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP) Credit
2513 -MAI which was approved in 1993 with assistance from World Bank. The total amount of the
project was US$ 36.7 million at a base exchange rate of MK 4.0 to US$ 1.0 for cost estimates
purposes. This project was planned after implementation of the Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Project (SACP) activities through Ministry of Agriculture of Irrigation (MOAI) failed to attain its
objectives and collapsed as the project closed in 1992 due to poor repayment rates by beneficiaries
(smallholder farmers).
The Agricultural Credit System in Malawi dates back to 1973 before the Grameen Bank was created.
This system was owned by the government and acted as a source of institutional credit for the rural
population of Malawi since its introduction. This credit system was implemented through the
Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs) and later by the Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Administration (SACA) from 1973 to 1992. The overall objective was to improve the rural standard
of living as it was recognized that agricultural production can be improved, through proper use of
farn inputs. These inputs contributed to an improved standard of living, through increased crop
yields, increased household food security, and increased income. The credit system became an
example in Africa of a successful govemment - supported credit program because of its loan
repayment rates which was at an average of 97 %. As repayment rates reduced to 25 % due to several
factors which included severe droughts and political liberalization SACA collapsed in 1992.
It was reported during the findings of the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Repayment Crisis study
carried out by Center for Social Research in 1994 that the exceptionally high repayment rates
achieved during the early years of the project were to a large extent the results of the draconian and
coercive loan recovery methods employed by Youth Leaguers of the then ruling party - Malawi
Congress Party (Msukwa et. al, 1994; Mawaya, 1994).
It is due to these problems and failures that the GOM with funding from Intemational Development
Agency (IDA)- World Bank established the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) to take over
operations of SACA. MRFC opened its doors for the first time to customers offering different type of
loans on 1st October, 1994 through funding under the RFSP. The total project cost of US$ 36.7
million includes:- US$ 25.1 million from IDA, US$ 4.0 million from the Government of Malawi
(GOM), US$ 4.7 million financed by MIRFC earnings through SACA remaining funds, and US$ 3.0
million from sub borrowers. This credit facility closed on 31st December, 1999 after two extensions.
The company maintained the joint liability lending approach followed by SACA but to operate under
commercial principles with a board of directors independent from the GOM and later to be
transformed into a licensed Rural Bank in the near future (GOM, 1994, and World Bank, 1993).
6



This report covers RFSP activities and their fundamental objectives were: a) easy access to financial
services for the rural sector, including women, on sustainable basis; b) assist the government towards
improving the policy and institutional framework for rural financial intermnediation by supporting the
development of linkages between the fornal and informal financial sectors, and strengthening related
non-financial institutions serving the rural sector.
The project aim was to reach all farmers who benefited from SACA focusing on improving their
accessibility to financial services in groups or individuals with an aim of improving their income
levels and food security through the provision of credit by MRFC and extension services by MOAIs
field staff.
The loan was made effective after GOM and MIRFC fulfilled the tied conditions. Risks feared to
affect the implementation of the project included:- increase in default, removal of subsidy leading to
increase in price of fertilizer, and inflation. The project implementation was affected by the
devaluation of the Malawi Kwacha in 1998 which led to revision of interest rates time and again.
Flow of IDA funds was quite substantial throughout the project period. Utilization of funds as the
project closed on 31st December, 1999 was 94.80 % of the total project cost. The breakdown per
component is as follows:
Equipment and Vehicles           = 48.62 %
Technical Assistance             = 101.99 %
Studies and Training             = 110.91 %
Operating Costs                  = 91.70 %
Project Preparation Facility     = 100.00 %
Medium loans                     = 316.93 %
Seasonal loans                   = 84.35 %
Af'ter the lending capacity of MIRFC was affected due to the devaluation of NMk in 1998 led to the
reallocation of funds within the RFSP in order to allow the company to continue with its lending
programs as it lending capacity was reduced (details of the reallocation of funds is attached in the
Annex). The utilization % of the Credit Line was so high {316.93 % and 84.35 % respectively) due
to the reallocation of funds. This did not affect the activities of the other components. Though MRFC
experienced some losses it still made some profits as indicated in the Profit and Loss Account
Analysis from 1994/95 to 1998/99 season varying from Mk 0.1 to Mk 25.0 million.
MRFC being a profit making company has 8 branches, 27 satellite offices, 163 field offices with a
total of 316 staff throughout the country as it follows the institutional framework of MOAI. Common
loans lent to smallholder farmers were Agricultural Seasonal Loans. In 1994/95 MIRFC disbursed MK
34.9 million worthy of loans to smallholder farmers and this increased to MK 547.3 million during
the 1998/99 season.
7



Most equipment and vehicles under the project were procured during the first years of the project
though the procedure took long as IDA had to approve first. Several training programs were made to
both MRFC headquarters and field staff in various areas such as credit management, group dynamics
and micro finance. Farners were also trained for them to qualify for loan service.
As from 1994/95 season about 2,893 clubs benefited from MRFC seasonal loans and this increased to
5,490 clubs in 1998/99 season. Loan repayments varied during the project period from 75 % to 95 %.
This was due to the high interest rates caused by fluctuations in value of Mk and low farn gate prices
which reduced farmers gross margins. Defaulters were charged with a penalty of 15 % of the loan,
denied loans in future seasons, and the last resort was to bring them to the court of law.
Though other lending institutions were available in most areas where MRFC is operating competition
was so minimal due to the fixed amount of loans offered and lack of proper procedures followed
during loan repayment.
Results of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey (BIAS) carried out on impact of RFSP on
beneficiaries indicated that farmers were happy with loans from MRFC though they complained of
collateral and high interest rate. Though the project implementation was successful it had some
problems which included:- late distribution of inputs and poor quality of fertilizer during early years
of the project, devaluation of Mk and delays in processing of farmers payment between Auction
Floors and MRFC Headquarters. Overall, the Donor and Borrowers (GOM and MIRFC) performance
was satisfactory.
Data collection and report writing for this PCR was done from 29th February to 13th March, 2000 in
three selected Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs) namely Salima, Machinga and Mzuzu
ADDs. The findings from this report will be used by the donor consultants (FAO / World Bank
Cooperative Programme) to come up with the donors report. The team involved in this work
comprised of Ms. M.J. Nyekanyeka, Mr. R Mchenga and Mr. G. Chande from the Central
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (CMEU), Planning Division - MOAI. Funds for this exercise was
provided by MRFC.
Many thanks go to MRFC members of staff namely: the Acting General Manager of MRFC, Mr.
Murotho; the Operations Managers, Field Supervisors, and Portfolio Officers of Salima, Machinga
and Mzuzu MRFC Branches; ADD staff namely the Divisional Crops Officers from Salima,
Machinga, and Mzuzu ADDs, Project Officers from Salima, Bwanje, Zomba, Balaka, and Rumphi
RDPs, Section Agricultural staff, and club members from the areas visited who benefited from
MRFC agricultural loans. Their support and assistance rendered has greatly contributed to the
compilation of this PCR.
8



1.0 INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND OF PROJECT
Before Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) was setup World Bank had assisted the
Government of Malawi (GOM) in several development programs in agriculture which included
credits and loans to develop the agricultural sector. Most of these funds were targeted to smallholder
sub sectors.
The GOM throughout the 1970s and 1980s benefited from several multi donor assistance where
remarkable investments in physical agricultural infrastructure was made and was characterized by
establishment of research, extension, credit systems and increase in staffing levels'.
Though all these development assistance were made in the agricultural sector, not much had been
done as proliferation of these establishments did not trickle downAto the smallholder farmers as they
have been constrained by a number of factors which included lack of capital or access to credit to
purchase agricultural inputs. The setting up of Blocks and formation of farmer groups or clubs was
encouraged to expand the coverage of extension services and promoting low cost technologies and
access to credit. However this fell short of addressing some of the underlying institutional and policy
issues. These projects including SACA were implemented to set effective growth and income
increases among smallholder farmers. The Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP) was identified
when the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) closed in 1992. This led the GOM
through the assistance from IDA -World Bank to setup MIRFC to take over SACA responsibilities in
order to achieve and improve the accessibility of credit to smallholder farmers while operating on a
commercial basis.
Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) began its operations on 1st October, 1994, and was meant
to become a major financial institution with the widest network providing a full range of financial
services in the form of loans and savings facilities to rural households and micro, small and medium
entrepreneurs on a competitive and sustainable basis. The RFSP was established to assist in
improving access of smaliholder farmers in financial services on sustainable basis and assist the
government towards improving the policy and institutional framework for rural financial
intermediation by supporting the development of linkages between the formal and informal financial
sectors, and strengthening related non-financial institutions serving the rural sector.
Several studies under this project were commissioned with an objective of improving MRFC services.
These were done by several consultants which included International Food Policy Research Institute
(IFPRI). These studies were to help policy makers and rural banking practitioners in Malawi and
elsewhere to better design and support sustainable rural financial institutions that meet the needs of
poor rural households.
' List of related credit/loans that World Bank has assisted Malawi in developing Agriculture in
the country is in Annex 1.0 in the Annexes.
9



2.0   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project's principal objectives were to:-
a)    Provide financial services and credit facility in the rural areas of Malawi.
b)    Provide credits to micro, small and medium enterprises in the country.
c)    Offering Banking Services
The type of loans offered included:-
-     Seasonal Agricultural loans - Collateralised (RFSP)
-     Business loans - Collateralised (RFSP)
Interest Rates charged on these loans were market determined.
3.0   PROJECT TARGETS
1.    Provide credit to more than half a million (500,000) smallholder farmers opposed to 330,000
during SACA.
Hi.   Improve accessibility of financial services to smallholders and improve repayment loan %
through proper company repayment channels.
iii.   Increase farmer level of food production through increase in cultivated area and adoption of
hybrid maize and use of fertilizer.
iv.   Increase farmer incomes through growing of cash crops i.e. tobacco, cotton etc.
v.    Increase in employment
vi    Reduce rural poverty while enhancing and accelerating economic development of rural areas
of Malawi.
4.0   LOAN CONDITIONS.
In order for RFSP to become effective, several critical conditions were laid down according to IDA
requirements to be fulfilled by both GOM and MRFC. These are indicated in Table l.0.
5.0   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
5.1   Project Costs
The Total Project Cost was estimated to be US$ 36.7 million (MIK 146.90 million) at the mid-1993
exchange rate of MK 4.00: US$ 1.00 including physical and price contingencies and base cost. The
I0



foreign exchange component was about US$ 13.1 million (36.0 %) of the project cost. Table 2.0
shows the Project Financing Plan for the RFSP.
TABLE 1.0 LOAN CONDITIONS UNDER THE RURAL FINANCIAL
SERVICES PROJECT (RFSP)
CONDITIONS                                      FULFELM[ENTDS
Conditionsfor Loan Effectiveness
Establishment of a company to operate the credit  Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC)
activities at a profitable margin.              established in 1993
Company to be registered as stipulated by the GOM    Registration of MRFC done as a limited
regulations                                     liability company according to GOM
regulations and satisfactory to IDA
The transfer of the activities, assets and liabilities of  MRFC took over all the assets and
SACA from GOM to MRFC (par. 4.7);              liabilities of SACA which were worthy
US$ 4.7 million.
Appointment of MRFC's General Manager, BDU      Positions fulfilled by the time the company
Manager and Financial Controller with qualifications  began operating on 1st Oct. 1994
satisfactory to the Bank ( as stipulated in Project
Staff Appraisal par. 4.8);
A receipt by IDA of satisfactory subsidiary     Signing of subsidiary agreement and
agreement between the RBM and MRFC (par. 4.15).  forwarded to IDA.
The finalization of MRFC's organizational structure   MRFC organizational structure developed
satisfactory to IDA (par. 5.2);                to IDA satisfaction
The preparation and adoption by MRFC of manual    Development and adoption of policies and
of operating policy, guidelines and implementation    operations done to IDA satisfaction
procedures acceptance to IDA (par. 5.5);
The establishment by MRFC of guidelines for credit  Done according to IDA satisfaction
processing and administration acceptance to IDA
(par. 5.11).
Establishment of a business development unit to the   Done according to IDA satisfaction
acceptance to IDA (par. 5.4)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



TABLE 2.0 PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local                Foreign              Total
US$ Million
IDA                                   11.9                 13.1                 25.0
Government                           4.0                                        4.0
MRFC                                 4.7                                        4.7
Sub-borrowers                        3.0                                        3.0
Total                               23.6                  13.1                 36.7
Table 3.0 indicates an estimated Investment and Recurrent cost of the project which included price
contingencies for both local and foreign cost added, based on March, 1993 price.
5.2   PROJECT FINANCING
The RFSP was financed by World Bank (IDA), GOM and other eamings from SACA balances and
sub-borrowers. The IDA credit of US$ 25.00 million covered 100 % of foreign costs and 51.0 % of
local costs, which when combined, constituted 68.0 % of total project costs. The GOM contribution
of US$ 4.00 million was expected to cover 17 % of local cost, representing I I % of total project cost.
The remaining Sub borrowers and SACA balances of US$ 3.0 million and US$ 4.7 million covered
13 % and 20% of local costs representing 8 % and 13 % respectively of total project cost.
There were two credit lines available to MIRFC. One under IDA funding as indicated in Table 2 and 3
above; and the other one of US US$ 12.0 million from IFAD under Mudzi Financial Services Project
(MESP). The financing of the RFSP was done in tranches to MIRFC through RBM at a reference rate.
The activities that were carried out under this project were in general affected by devaluation which
reached up to 70 % in 1998 which reduced MRFC lending capacity. Hence this led to the GOM and
World Bank to reallocate RFSP resources from other components to the lending component to enable
the company to proceed with the program. These macroeconomic shocks are still being felt by the
company up to the time the project phased out.
12



Table 3.0    ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Local      Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign   Total
MK 000                            US$ 000
A. INVESTMENT
COSTS
I. Goods                    0.00   25143.30   25143.30        0.00   6285.80   6285.80
(Matri/Vehic/Equip)
2. Training               2039.80     226.60    2266.50     510.00      56.70    566.60
3. Technical Assistance      0.00   - 7820.00    7820.00      0.00    1955.00    1955.00
4. Line of Credit        72000.00    8000.00    8000.00   18000.00   2000.00  20000.00
TOTAL                    74039.80   41189.90   115229.80   18510.00   10297.50  28807.40
INVESTMENT COSTS
B. RECURRENT
COSTS
1. Salaries              13754.80       0.00    13754.80   3438.70       0.00   3438.70
2. Other operating Costs    3994.40    9320.20    13314.50  998.60   2330.00   3328.60
TOTAL RECURRENT    17749.20    9320.20   27069.30   4437.30   2330.00   6767.30
COSTS
TOTAL BASELINE           91789.00   50510.10   142299.10  22947.30   12627.50  35574.80
COSTS
Physical Contingencies       0.00    1257.20    1257.20       0.00    314.30      314.30
Price Contingencies       2451.70     821.50    3273.20     612.90     205.40     818.30
TOTAL PROJECT            94240.70   52588.80  146829.50  23560.20   13147.20  36707.40
COSTS
5.3   PROJECT FINANCIAL PROGRESS
13



The flow of EDA funds was quite substantial throughout the project period though it was affected by
some macroeconomic shock (devaluation) which led to the company to seek for reallocation of
funding in order to continue with the program to expand its customer outreach. Table 4.0 shows the
flow of RFSP - IDA funds under Investment and Recurrent costs over the project life period of five
(5) years.
TABLE 4.0 FLOW OF RFSP - IDA FUNDS IN (Mk)
Allocated and Actual Expenditure to Project Closing Date
Category         Amount Allocated   Amount                             i'/o Fund
(SDR)        Disbursed (SDR)   Balance (SDR)  Utilization
Credit Line
Medium Term       888,478.00         2,815,813.35      (1,927,335.35)    316.93 %
Loans
Seasonal Loans    13,586,522.00      11,459,589.98      2,126,932.02      84.35 %
l  14,475,000.00     14,275,403.33       199,596.67       98.62 %
Institutional Development Component
Equipment and    1,3632,558.00        662,988.43         700,569.57       48.62 %
Vehicles
Technical         1,072,848.00       1,094,181.37       (21,333.37)       101.99 %
Assistance
Studies and        50,853.00          56,402.17          (5,549.17)       110.91 %
Training                                                                                 I
Operating Costs    764,956.00         701,423.21         63,532.79        91.70 %
PPF                272,785.00         272,785.97           (0.97)         100.00%
Sub Total        3,525,000.00        2,787,781.15        737,218.85       79.09 %
Total            18,000,000.00       17,063,184.48       936,815.52       94.80 %
* PPF = Project Preparation Facility
As indicated above the % for the Credit Line is so high {316.93 % and 84.35 % respectively}. This is
because funds from some components under Institutional Development were reallocated to the Credit
Line after holding discussions with GOM and World Bank when the lending capacity was affected by
the devaluation of Mk which occurred in 1998. This reallocation of funds under RFSP had no effect
on the activities of the components under Institutional Development.
Though MRFC experienced some losses it still made some profits after considering the loan loss
14



provisions and provisions against irrecoverable deposits and after meeting staff and operating costs.
This was because loan loss provisioning policy requires that 100 % provision be made against all
seasonal loans which go past their maturity dates. Under this policy full (100 %) provision is made
the day after a loan goes past its maturity date. This policy for business loans is similarly very
conservative and stringent. Such profit outcome would assist the company to be able to sustain its
activities.
Table 5.0 below show the Profit and Loss Account Analysis of MRFC from 1994/95 to 1998/99
seasons.
Table 5.0    PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT ANALYSIS
MK 000 million            _
1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99
Overall loan     42.1m       277.1m     218.4m     362.4m      567.0m
Portfolio
(Seasonal and
Business)
Interest Income    27.7m     161.2m     115.1m      158.4m     357.6m
Interest Expense   4.6m      51.7m      25.5m      27.4m       101. lm
Staff Cost       6.9m        14.9m      23. lm     34.3m      48.4m
Operating Costs   8.6m       12.3m      17.4m      26.0m       54.5m
Loan Loss        2.5m        81.9m      23.2m      45.3m       128.9m
Provisions
Net profit before  5.Om      0.1m       9.6m       25.Om       24.7m
Tax but after
Loan Losses
15



6.0    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.1    Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) Activities and Organizational Structure:
Malawi Rural Finance Company Limited (MRFC) was established in 1993 under the Companies Act
1984 as a private limited liability company. It was established as a new Finance company by the
Government of Malawi (GOM) under financial and technical assistance from the World Bank.
The company started its operations on 1S October, 1994 and presently operates as a Finance
Company. The shareholders, the Board and the management are fully committed to transform the
company into full Bank status.
The GOM owns 100% of the Issued and Paid Up share capital of the Company through the Ministry
of Finance. Currently the fully paid up share capital of the Company stands at MK 101 million.
MRFC has been given a special exemption by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) to accept deposits
from the public. This exemption is however conditional to the effect that 'the company can not use the
funds raised from its depositors to fund its lending activities.
The company has currently eight (8) branches, 27 Satellite Offices, 163 Field Offices spread
throughout the rural areas of Malawi with a total number of staff of 316 compared to 255 in 1994/95.
NiRFC customers fall in diverse categories and these are:- Resource Poor Subsistence Farmers and
Entrepreneurs, Smallholder Farmers' Clubs, Owners of Small & Medium Estates, and Micro & Small
Entrepreneurs. The loan services MIRFC offers include:-
i)    Seasonal Agricultural loans - Collateralised (RFSP)
ii)    Business loans - Collateralised (RFSP)
iii)   Small Business Loans without upfront Collateral (Mudzi Small Business Loans Scheme)
iv)    Seasonal Agricultural loans without upfront collateral ( Mudzi Tikolore Scheme) and
v)    Banking Services
The first two loans (i & ii) under RFSP involve payment of 10 to 20 % up front cash collateral to
both rural and urban customers. The other two loans (iii & iv) under Mudzi are offered to resource
poor farmers and entrepreneurs who can not afford MRFC's regular upfront 10 % cash collateral.
Service (v) is offered to villagers where transactions are done right at the village level.
Interest Rate charged to MRFC customers is done at market rate calculated by considering cost of
funds MRFC operating expenses, loan loss provision and a small margin. Interest Rate % charged
from 1995 to 1999 varied from 34 % to 54 % (RBM Reference Rate and, MRFC %) compared to 29
% to 51 % of Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM Base + 3 %. Details for each years Interest Rate
(%) are indicated in Annex 2.0. A three tier Interest Rates structure is offered by MIRFC where Prime
Customers attract the lowest rates, Repeat Customers pay 2 % higher rates than prime and First Time
customers pay 3 % above the Prime Customer Rates.
16



Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) is known to beneficiaries through Agricultural and MRFC
field Staff and production of brochures which are usually distributed to the people. The 1998/99
overall loan portfolio (Seasonal + Business) is MK 547.30 million compared to MK 34.9 million in
1994/95.
6.2  PROCUREMENT COMPONENT
As MRFC was a new company there was need to procure alot of equipment hence there was an
increase in operating cost in 1994/95 season. This included procurement of computers, office
equipment, vehicles, motorcycles etc. Table 6.0 shows the IDA funds allocation schedule for each
component under RFSP.
TABLE 6.0 FUNDS ALLOCATION SCHEDULE FOR RFSP - IDA (SDR MILLION)
Category                Amount Allocated {SDR}      '%, of Expenditures to be Financed
1.0  Goods & Services
A    Sub-projects under Part A             1,450,000.00  100 % of foreign Expenditure and 90 %
{i)of the Project                                 of local expenditures.
B    Eligible Expenditures for            10,100,000.00  100 % of foreign Expenditures and 90 %/o
Incremental    seasonal                            of local expenditures
credit under Part A {ii}of
the Project
2.0  Equipment and vehicles                3,250,000.00  100 % of foreign expenditures and 80 %
Under Part B. l of the                             of local expenditures
project
3.0  Technical Assistance                   850,000.00  100%
Under Part B  of the
project
4.0  Studies  and  Training                 375,000.00  100 %
under Parts B and C of
the Project
5.0  Operating  Costs  under                375,000.00  90 %
Part B of the Project
6.0  Refunding of Project                   375,000.00  Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 {d}
Preparation Advance                                of this agreement
7.0  Unallocated                           1,225,000.00
Total                                18,000,000.00
17



Procurement of project equipment was done by MRFC management as the General Manager and
Financial Controller were trained in IDA procurement procedures. Major procurement activities were
first to be approved by the donor, and in most of the times this led to delays in procurement of some
items. The reports for procurement for each category is as follows:
a) Vehicle and Equipment
Vehicles and equipment were procured during the first and second years with some
replacements or additions in the remaining years while other goods and services, supplies and
spare parts were to be procured through out the project life.
b) Technical Assistance
Several Technical Assistance were recruited and these were the General Manager, Financial
Controller and Manager Business Development Unit was part of the conditions to be met
before the company began operating. Several short Consultants were hired to carry out
several studies under the project.
c) Training
Several Training opportunities were offered to both MRFC staff (Headquarters and Field) and
beneficiaries (farmers and others). Most field staff were trained in credit management, group
dynamics and micro finance. Some staff from M:RFC Head office and some supervisors were
trained on Micro banker Computer systems. These training's enabled MRFC staff to
implement the projects activities effectively and efficiently.
d) Operating Cost of MRFC
Operating cost was met locally as it mostly covered staff salaries, maintenance costs of both
vehicles and other equipment, accommodation and other office expenses, stationery, and
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) {costs incurred during the preparatory phase of establishing
the company}. These expenses have been highlighted in Table 5.0 above.
e) Line of Credit
These were the funds to be lent to different categories of MRFC beneficiaries as indicated in
Table 6.0 above. The Line of Credit was affected in 1998 due to devaluation and reallocation
of funds was done within the project after holding discussions with GOM and World Bank.
Details of the performance of this Line of Credit component will be discussed in detail in the
following sub heading.
18



6.3    LINE CREDIT
6.3.1 Planned Activities and Achievements
In general, the objective of providing credit to smallholder farmers was substantially achieved as
number of farmers benefiting from MIRFC Seasonal Loans increased during the project period.
Farmers got the loans through clubs which were selected by MRFC staff after being trained by the
Agricultural staff. More Women clubs benefited from MRFC loans to grow cash crops i.e. cotton and
tobacco under the project..
Clubs were trained in group dynamic and credit management by Agricultural staff in 8 sessions
taking 2 hours per session using the materials produced by MRFC and the clubs were later screened
by MRFC staff to test if they qualify for MRFC Seasonal Loans. These Seasonal Loans included:
fertilizer, hybrid maize seed and chemicals for cotton growers.
Since MRFC started operating on 1 st October, 1994 to date number of clubs benefiting from MRFC
loans has increased despite the company facing other problems which included defaulters, loss of cash
and devaluation. Details of numbers of clubs benefiting from the project were as follows:
Season   1994- 1995   1995- 1996   1996 - 1997   1997- 1998   1998 - 1999
Clubs       2,893         6,010        4,777         4,086         5,490
The amounts of money lent to smallholder farmers during 1998/99 was MK 547.3 million compared
to MK 34.9 in 1994/95 season. During the project period loan repayments for these Seasonal Loans
varied from 75 % to 95 %. Table 7.0 shows Loan Repayment Percentages (%).
The variations in loan repayments was due to some factors which included:- drought, floods, low
farm-gate price for some crops i.e. cotton, maize, and at times the lower prices being offered at the
Auction Floor affected the farmers gross margins. The devaluation of Nk also affected the gross
margins for the crops.
Clubs that fail to repay their loans have been charged with a default penalty of 15 % of the loan and
declared defaulters and never to be given loans unless they repay their previous loans. The last resort
was to take them to the court of law.
19



Table 7.0    LOAN REPAYMENT AGAINST LOAN DISBURSEMENT IN Mk AND %
SEASON           SEASONAL   AMOUNT    AMOUNT NOT RECOVERY
LOANS            REPAID in (Mk  REPAID (Mk in  RATES
DISBURSED        in million)      million)
(Mk in million)
1994/95               34.9              33.2             (1.7)       95%
1995/96               249.6            187.2            (62.4)       75 %
1996/97               174.1            154.9            (19.2)       89%
1997/98               204.2             183.8           (20.4)       90 %
1998/99               547.3            421.4            (125.9)      77 %
1999/2000
Total                1,210.1           980.5            (229.6)      81 %
In general the projects activities were not seriously affected by competition from other lending
institutions though they offered their loans at a lower interest rate than that of MNRFC. There was
slight competition with ADMARC, Farmers Finance Company (FFC), Tobacco Association of
Malawi (TAMA) and the Commercial Banks in general. This was due to the fact that the
organizations offered fixed amount of loans unlike MRFC loans which were flexible.
Coordination between MRFC and MOAI was said to be satisfactory though agricultural staff rated it
unsatisfactory due to some differences in coordination of other issues under the project or that they
expected too much. Supervision Missions from the donors side were very useful as they gave
guidance to MRFC management.
6.4    Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey (BIAS)
The objective of this survey was to assess the impact of the RFSP on its beneficiaries (Smallholder
farmers). The survey was carried out in March, 2000 following the closing of the project on 31st
December, 1999 and was done by MOAI- Planning Division's - CMIEU as part of the preparatory
work for the Project Completion Report (PCR). A total number of 25 farmers' clubs, 10 MRFC staff
and 12 Agricultural staff who were interviewed from Salima, Machinga, Mzuzu ADDs and MRFC
Branches.
20



Most of the clubs interviewed were engaged in tobacco, cotton and maize growing. The most
common farm inputs issued to farmers was fertilizer for tobacco and maize production while
for cotton they were given pesticides.
Most of the clubs were formed during 1994/95 and 1995/96 season. This gives an impression
that most of the clubs became organized soon after the inception of MRFC.
Almost all the clubs were basically formed with an aim of acquiring agricultural loan in order
to increase production of food and cash crops inorder to improve their food security levels
and income status hence improve their living standards.
Membership level was between 15 to 20 members as stipulated by MRFC selection
procedures. All clubs indicated having a functional committee which coordinates the club
activities.
Most of the farmers reported that they were informed by the Field Assistant (FA) about the
existence of the MRFC although most of these clubs could not give or spell out clearly the
objectives of MRFC apart from issuing credit to smallholder farmers.
There is a very strong indication that farmers have been getting technical advice both from
MRFC staff and Agricultural Staff on agronomic activities in their gardens and how to service
the loan. They indicated that this has improved their club performance in club management
and increase in food and cash crop production.
The timeliness in input delivery was indicated to be done on time despite delays during the
early years of the project implementation (1994/95 and 1995/96. The quality of the inputs
especially fertilizer has been good except one or two seasons where some clubs complained of
fertilizer which had lots of sand and stones.
Though there were other lending institutions within the ADD visited most clubs did not
benefit from their loans as they were so fixed though their interest rates were lower than those
of MRFC.
Most clubs knew about SACA though only a few benefited from it. This was because most of
the clubs were formed after SACA had closed. Those who knew about SACA indicated that
MRFC loans are better off than SACA ones as these were basically for food crops and fixed
while for MRFC it included cash crops and very flexible.
Most MRFC staff knew about RFSP and its objectives. Same with Agriculture staff though
they had no access of the Project Appraisal Document.
21



Implementation of project activities by MIRFC were done in collaboration with
Agriculture staff especially in training farmner clubs in group dynamics and credit
management while MRFC staff did the screening test.
Common loans offered were Agriculture Seasonal Loans. Their interest rates varied from
34% - 54% during the project period.
Other lending institutions operating in ADDS were TAMA, ADMARC, Farmers Financing
Company (FFC), Norsk Hydro, and Commercial Banks etc.
Monitoring project activities was done through field visits, reports and meetings at Branch,
Satellite and Field offices.
Problems faced included:- reduction in size of portfolios due to default and political pressure,
floods, erratic rains, and low farm gate prices.
Quality and timeliness of the implementation of project activities improved over the project
period.
Overall the project objectives were substantially met though they were some macroeconomic
shocks which affected the implementation of the project activities.
6.5    General Problems faced
A few problems were faced during the project period from both MRFC and the beneficiaries
(smallholder farmers). The company had problems such as:- late distribution of inputs and in some
cases poor quality of inputs (fertilizer which had sand and stones), loan recovery was poor and in
1998 the company was greatly affected by devaluation which went up to 70 %. Seeking for a no
objection from donor to procure certain items led to delays in the project activities. Frequent changes
of Task Managers has affected the implementation of some of the project activities.
For the beneficiaries (smallholder farmers) their main problem under RFSP activities were as follows:
Collateral affected the number of farmers to benefit from MRFC loans as farmers did not have the
cash for the up front payment, high interest rates which kept on changing during the season, lack of
Agricultural Staff in some areas which led to farmers lacking some Technical Advice, delays in
processing payment between Auction Floor and MRFC headquarters etc.
22



6.6   Study Findings under RFSP
Several studies have been commissioned by several organizations under the RFSP. These studies
included those done by IFPRI2. IPFRI were given a short consultancy after they completed a two
year study on Rural Financial Markets in Malawi in collaboration with Bunda College of Agriculture.
The principal aim of this study/research was to provide information which could help policy makers
and rural banking practitioners in Malawi and elsewhere to better design and support sustainable rural
financial institutions that meet the needs of poor rural households.
Findings of this study indicated that:-
Microfinance institutions targeted to poor people can operate successfully and achieve
high loan recovery rates.
Peer selection, monitoring, and pressure are taking place in credit groups in Malawi.
There are some institutional and socio-cultural constraints that put limitations to the
extent to which the benefits to the lender from these incentives can be realized. These
at times rise due to culture being defined as what is acceptable. These might affect the
performance of a lending program.
The ability of MRFC to reach and monitor a large number of borrowers scattered
throughout the country is due to the institutional framework of MOAI network
throughout the country though it has also some problems.
6.7   Banks and Borrowers Performance
S,ince the project was approved in 1993 by the donor IDA - World Bank and implementation of
project activities began there were sixteen (16) supervision missions3 came to supervise the project
activities and one of these was a Mid Term Review for RFSP. Several task plans were drawn to speed
up the implementation of the project activities. Action plans were drawn by donor on how project
components should be implemented and how recovery should be done and improved. In general
supervision missions inputs were useful and guiding both technically, and administratively leading to
the success performance of the company.
The GOM and the project implementers [MRFC] performance was also satisfactory. The government
made available the SACA remaining funds (US$ 4.7 million) and its contribution of US$ 4.0 million.
Almost all conditions were met by the government and the implementer MRFC. Goods and services
procured under the project were done according to IDA procuring procedures.
2 Fourth Semi-Annual Report prepared by Aliou Diagne, dec. 1999 - Design and Sustainability
Issues of rural Credit and Savings Programs for the poor in Malawi: An action-oriented Research
Proj ect.
List of these supervision mission is attached in the Annex 3.0.
23



7.0    Critique
As the previous chapters have evaluated the implementation of the RFSP activities being
implemented by MRFC in collaboration with Agricultural Staff, discussions on achievements as well
as failures and reasons have been highlighted. This chapter is to critique and evaluate the manner of
execution of RFSP activities.
7.1    Collateral
The charging of the 10 to 20 % collateral needs to be reconsidered as many farmers fail to get
seasonal loans from MFC due to lack of cash for the upfront payment.
7.2   Interest Rates
The devaluation of Mk in 1998 affected the lending capacity of MIRFC leading to interest rates
increasing and varying within a season. The cause of these variations in interest rates were not proper
transmitted by Portfolio Officers to farmers so that they understand why the rates vary at times. This
variations in interest rates affected the gross margins for the farmers.
7.3    Farm gate prices
The low farm gate prices for some of the crops i.e. maize and cotton has affected the gross margin of
the farmers leading to some farmers defaulting. There is need to peg most of these crops prices to US
dollar just as the case with tobacco. Tobacco is affected too by the lower prices being offered at the
floor.
7.4    Quality of inputs (fertilizer)
The quality of inputs especially fertilizer was reported to be very poor during the early years of the
project. The fertilizer had sand and stones which affected the yield output. Though trading of
agricultural inputs has been liberalized there is need for the GOM and MRFC to be testing the quality
of the inputs to ensure farmers get good quality fertilizer.
7.5    Staff Training Opportunity and Upgrading
Though it was reported that some training was done for MRFC staff most of it was On the Job
Training. Though this is appreciated there is still need for future professional training for some of the
staff which will act as an incentive and lead to upgrading them staff from one level to the other.
24



8.0   PROJECT SUSTAINABELITY AND FUTURE OPEERATIONS
The objectives of at least by reaching most of the smallholder farmers throughout the country. MRFC
has been able to make profits though some losses were incurred. Though the projects' activities were
carried out at a macro level, its objectives were substantially achieved leading to project sustainability
being likely as long as some factors would be adjusted i.e. additional funding would be available to
continue implementing these project activities.
MRFC financial projections of the coming financial year shows that operating costs, including staff
costs, are likely to out grow the growth in income. These increases will affect the gross margin of the
company thereby reducing the projected profitability for the coming season unless the company will
be able to improve their lending margins or expand their lending volume. Since lending margins are
market driven it is felt that increase in lending volume should be encouraged and proposed. MIRFC
then through GOM will seek for additional credit lines from World Bank in order for RFSP activities
to be sustainable. The company too ought to look for ways of reducing loan losses.
As Malawi's economy is agro-based and mainly lies on tobacco as its major export source the future
prospects of MIRFC remains tied to the future of the tobacco industry, and the exchange and interest
rate movements in the economy. It is due to this that the company proposes to be offering its tobacco
customers US dollar denominated loans. This will assist in reducing losses of the company capital as
was the case in 1998. This proposal has been tabled to GOM and a decision has not yet been made.
Once this would be approved it is to be taken on board and launched from 2000/2001 season.
9.0    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
*  Rural and agricultural credit are always politicized. Managing political relationships
is therefore critical to credit and institutional sustainability. MRFC fell short in
nurturing its extemal relationships which resulted in World Bank to be more involved
in problem- solving and inter-institutional relations than would be considered optimal.
Its over dependence on this 'intermediation' was disadvantageous to the company as
it strives to sustain its operations following the closure of the RFSP.
*  Credit institutions should be able to operate free from political interventions.
*  Since MIRFC was registered as a company and not a financial institution it fell outside
the supervisory arm of the Reserve Bank of Malawi. It was mostly supervised by
World Bank missions and its extemal auditors. A special arrangement might have
been sought to extend RBM supervisory activity to MRFC.
Microfinance and agricultural finance involve quite different challenges. They
25



require different skills, and different types of loan appraisals, monitoring
arrangements, record-keeping, etc. MNRFC has struggled to manage and marry the
two, especially on its microfinance dimension.
NMRFC is also offering Savings Banking facilities. The services should be encouraged
and sustained as most smallholder farmers who are MRFC clientele are benefiting
from this facility as it dose not only provide resources to the farmers/ groups but also
builds up risk funds for them in case of defaulting.
Competition is not necessarily beneficial when it comes to administration of
subsidized development-oriented finance. There is a relative small market for rural
and agriculture finance in Malawi and hence the need for competition to follow
acceptable micro-finance best practice in order to reduce confusion being potrayed to
potential clients
Though microfinance literature indicates whether or not (high) interest rates matters
or whether the key issue is simply providing access to effective services MRFC, did
not experience any of this though some beneficiaries still complained about this.
Currently MRFC is negotiating with GOM through MOAI on how interest rates could
be reduced assuming GOM will agree to consider reducing the cost of funds to the
company or remove the reference rate altogether.
Seasonal agricultural finance centered on small farner clients is not inherently
profitable no matter how effective the financial institution is managed. A subsidy
element, underwriting part of the operation's administrative and technical costs will
almost certainly be necessary, regardless of the institution's effectiveness in loan
recovenes.
High loan recoveries for smallholder farmers can be obtai ned provided that there is a
(a) a profitable lead crop/livestock enterprise, (b) mechanism for loan collection (i.e.
an auction stop order, a contracting organization), and (c) loan repayment discipline is
not undermnined by parallel quasi-credit programs which apply subsidized interest
rates and other preferential terms.
In circumstances of high inflation and currency devaluation, it may be necessary to
move to foreign currency (-linked) lending in order to preserve the capital of the
financial institution and in order to provide reasonable interest rates to borrowers.
This can easily be applied when financing the production of exported commodities,
especially those already priced in ( or whose price is linked to) foreign exchange.
Flexibility is critical in the design of rural finance components and it is ill-advised to
restrict the clientele and types of activities which the financial institution can lend to.
Market circumstances will certainly change over the course of the project and new
26



opportunities and new competition will arise.
Agricultural/rural finance should not, generally, form the basis for stand-alone
projects. Agricultural finance is untimely tied up with broader developments in
agricultural market development and the regulations of agricultural markets. The
institutional solutions for agricultural credit may well derived from structural changes
in agricultural marketing (either for inputs or commodities). The dominant suppliers
of agricultural finance may not be financial institutions themselves. This should be
carefully assessed at the early stages of project preparation.
Though application of the joint and several liability principle is said to have improved
loan repayment rates over the years in Malawi, there is still some evidence that at
times it induces non-payment by individual members who observed other 'free
riders'.
Legal enforcement of financial contracts (with borrowers) proved largely to be
ineffective and expensive. Taking borrowers to court may have had a limited
demonstration effect, although actual direct recoveries from legal procedures probably
did not exceed the legal costs.
The economic and political environment facing MRFC has been one of unusual
turbulence as Malawi has been undergoing a major transition toward democracy and
market liberalization, involving substantial social and even psychological change.
This has affected all facets of MRFC's operations. Considering the prevailing
turbulent environment, together with the underlying high risk of its focal operation,
MRFC's performance (and even survival) is rather remarkable.
Repayment through stop order at the Auction floors for the tobacco growers has
shown to be effective as it reduces chances for defaulting. There is need to identify a
market point for the other crops so that loan deductions be done directly. This would
reduce the percentage of defaulters.
27



10.0 COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION
All loan conditions set under RFSP were fulfilled by both GOM and MRFC for the project to be
effective. These conditions included the recruitment of a General Manager, Manager BDU and
Financial Controller. In general most of the projects objectives have been achieved though they were
affected by several factors.
Recommendations made by Supervision Missions were so helpful and guiding as it contributed to the
success of the implementation of the project activities.
Most of the projects' target have been met substantially. The project was able to offer credit to more
smallholder farmners through clubs and accessibility of the financial services to smallholder farmers
was met due to the fact that MIRFC network falls in line with MOAI institutional framework which
covers all areas throughout the country. Loan repayment has in general improved under MRFC
operation as it varied from 75 % to 95%. This was because most of the seasonal loans issued to
smallholder farners who grow tobacco were deducted directly at the Auction Floors hence reducing
defaulting attempts.
In general food security levels has improved at household levels as indicated in production and
hectarage in the National Crop Estimate Figures produced by MOAI. Same with cash crops i.e.
tobacco, cotton etc the number of growers had increased same with production (mt) and hectarage
(ha) though this can not only be attributed to MRFC loans alone but also to other factors which
included good seasons, other line credits offered by other lending institutions and usage of new
technologies i.e. adoption of usage of hybrid maize [MH 18 etc] and use of fertilizer. Table 8.0
indicates the increase in production and hectarage for a few selected crops.
TABLE 8.0 NATIONAL PRODUCTION FOR SOME FOOD AND CASH CROP
CROP       1994/95             199596             1996/97            1997/98             1998/99
lilt     Ha         lilt    Iha        ML       lt        Mt. laa            lilt,     ha
NMaize     1,327.865  1,225,580   1,793,461  1.242,588  1,226,478  1.233.538  1.772.392   1 391,365  2.479.406  1,446,773
S/beans    15,011    23,266    42,374    53.611    28,425    39,9604   3(0 170    42.976    40.K11    65,704
Tobacco    20,659    244.412    49,786    46,277    65,781    66.547    8 81,181    89,961    71,690    90,205
Cotton     25,197    52,237    82,591    79,073    45,122    70,734    36,381    45,077    51.321    53,766
* Source: National Crop Estimate Figures by MoAI.
As more farmers were engaged in growing of cash crops due to Crop liberalization in 1994,
smallholder farmers income levels has improved leading to improved living standards through
building of houses, acquisition of several household goods including bicycles etc.
Partially there has been an increase in employment rate as some people were employed under MIRFC
to implement RFSP activities, and even farmers were able to employ people to assist them in their
fields activities as casual laborers.
28



The project activities have also assisted in reducing the rural poverty while enhancing and
accelerating economic development of rural areas of Malawi. This can be seen through the improved
living standard of the rural people and the increase in per capita for some of the households though
they still lack some services like public infrastructure etc.
Though it can be said that the project has been a success there is still more to be done to improve the
living standard of the rural people in Malawi. These are indicated in the following chapter to be
considered by both the donor, GOM and the implementing company MRFC inorder to make future
credit projects in the country a success.
11.0   RECOMM\ENDATIONS
The following are Recommendations put forward for consideration in future credit projects in the
country:-
* There is need to streamline the scope of future projects inorder to facilitate easy implementation
and monitoring.
*  Need for the govemment to increase number of lending institutions and diversify loan schemes in
the country. i.e. farmers should be empowered to form their own village banks and include other
agriculture implements in their loan packages.
- There is need to shorten the procedures when implementing projects i.e. instead of having a
Special Account abroad open one locally. Procurement procedures need to be reconsidered as
current situation leads to delays in procuring some of the required items as no objection has to be
seeked from IDA.
* Need for donors to use local personnel or government staff when supervising projects and when
carry out some studies i.e. impact studies etc.
* Need for the GOM to assess performance of Technical Assistance recruited under projects in the
country. This will help to check if the specialist is performing according to standards spelt out in
their Terms of Reference [TORs].
* Collateral should be either reduced or removed as many smallholder farmers fail to get a loan
from MRFC due to lack of cash for the up front payment.
. Timeliness in the disbursement of loans should be improved. Same with quality of inputs
especially fertilizer.
*  Information sharing among all concemed stakeholders should be improved
C Infrastructure at all levels should be improved for smooth implementation of project activities.
* Flexibility in procedure and policy changes should be encouraged in order to cope up with-the
surfacing of competition
* Farm produce should be considered as a form of loan repayment apart from cash.
* MIRFC should consider extending the loan to cater for other very important garden operations.
This should be in form of cash so that farmers don't work as casual laborers in other peoples
gardens seeking for cash.
29



* Payment process from Auction Floors to MRFC should be improved.
*  Need for staff motivation and incentives to be set in order to encourage staff to work efficiently
and effectively. Staff development is required through upgrading by offering upgrading courses.
*  Need to reduce interest rates charged on loans. The current ones are too high.
Need for MOAI to fill in the vacant sections as in most of the ADDs some of the sections have
not been manned for some seasons leading to farmers not benefiting from agronomic technical
advices.
*  There is need for Public Relation drive between participating agencies and the local community.
* Coordination between MRFC headquarters, branches and MOAI, and the ADDs should be
strengthened.
*  Politicians should maintain their non interference in the project activities but should provide an
enabling environment.
30



12.0                                 ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.0                RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDIT.
LOAN/CREDIT TITLE              PURPOSE                YEAR          STATUS
OF
APPRO
VAL
1. National Rural Development  To assist GOM to implement  Nov.    Closed 30 June 1985
Programme - NRDP Phase I     the first 5-year phase of the  1978   PCR dated June 1987
program. Completion of
Lilongwe Land Development
Programme (LLDP)
2. National Rural Development  Similar components to NRDP  Oct.    Closed September 1988
Programme - NRDP Phase III   IV. Main objectives to      1981      PCR dated May 1990
(Cr. I 183-MAI)              increase agricultural
production, income and
welfare of the smallholder
sector.
3. National Rural Development  The project included      April     Closed April 1991 PCR
- NRDP Phase IV (Cr.1343-    components to strengthen and  1983    dated April 1991
MAI)                         support extension services,
training and adoptive research
and made provision for
improved credit and
.___________________________    marketing  facilities.
4. Smallholder Fertilizer (Cr.    Assist the smallholder sector   April  Closed 31 March 1988
1352-MAI)                   in the procurement of inputs,  1983
mainly fertilizer.                                         I
5. Agricultural Services Project  Designed to help formulate    June  Closed on 30th
(Cr.2514-MAI)                and implement institution and  1993   September, 1999
management reforms in
research, extension and input
supply system.                                             l
6. Rural Financial Services  To improve the assess to    June      Closed on 31st
Project (Cr.2513-MAI)        financial services for rural  1993    December, 1999
sector
31



ANNEX 2.0 INTEREST RATES CHARGED BY MRFC COMPARED TO CBM
Year                    RM                    MRFC                   CBM
Reference Rate       Prome Rate             Base + 30/,l
February, 1995          24 .38 %              40 %                   35 + 3
May, 1996               34.89 %               54 %                   48 + 3
July, 1996              26.65 %               54 %                   48 + 3
September, 1996         20.90 %               54 %                   37 + 3
November, 1996          10.59 %               34 %                   29 + 3
March, 1997             9.18 %                34 %                   26 + 3
April, 1998             11.53 %               43 %                   35 + 3
September, 1998         16.30 %               43 %                   35 + 3
December, 1998          19.97 %               47 %                   31 + 3
March, 1999             26.28 %               49 %                   48 + 3
September, 1999         26.28 %               45 %                   48 + 3
November, 1999          29.24                 45 %                   45 + 3
32



Annex 3.0              LIST OF RFSP SUPERVISION MISSIONS
DONOR MNSSIONS   DATE i MONTH   YEAR
Review Mission              31st March            1994
it  _i                      13th July             1994
I    to                     14th October          1994
Supervision Mission         15th November         1994
'I ,, -   ,,27th February                         1995
If _ I                      10th April            1995
LX                  24th July             1995
,,____________________   _ ,,25th  January        1996
June                 1996
12th July            1996
19th August          1996
Mid Term Review             2nd December          1996
Supervision Mission         5th June              1997
13th January
Ii     I ll                 26th March            1999
II     9                    24th September        1999
33



Annex 4.Oa   Actual Allocated Funds Vs Expenditure to Project Closing Date
Category                   Amount Allocated  Amount Disbursed           Balance                 t Fund Utilization
(SDR)             (SDR                (SDR)
Credit Line
Medium Term Loans            1,450,000.00     2,815,813.35         (1,365,813.35)            194.19 %
Seasonal Loans             10,100,000.00     11,459,589.98         (1,359,589.98)            113.46 %
15,550,000.00     14,275,403.33        (2,725,403.33)            123.60 %
Institutional Development
Component
Equipment and Vehicles      3,250,000.00       662,988.43            2,587,011.57            20.40 %
Technical Assistance          850,000.00      1,094,181.37           (244,181.37)            128.73 %
Studies and Training          375,000.00       56,402.17              (318,597.83)           15.04 %
Operating Costs               375,000.00       701,423.21             (326.423.21)           187.05 %
PPF-                          375,000.00       272,785.97             102,214.03)            72.74 %
Sub Total                   6,450,000.00      2,787,781.15           2,437,218.85            43.22 %
Unallocated                                                                     _
Revolving Fund
Total                       18,000,000.00    17,063,184.48          (288,184.48)             94.80 %
PPF = Project Preparation Facility
Annex 4.Ob   Reallocated Funds Vs Expenditure to Project Closing Date
Category                   Amount           Amount Disbursed           BBalance   '%t, Fund
Allocated               (SDR                  (SDR)    Utilization
(SDR)
Credit Line                                                                                         |
Medium Term Loans            888,478.00      2,815,813.35          (1.927,335.35)        316.93 %
Seasonal Loans             13.586,522.00    11,459,589.98          2.126,932.02           84.35 %
14,475,000.00    14,275,403.33           199,596.67           98.62 %
Institutional Development
Component
Equipment and Vehicles      1,3632,558.00     662,988.43             700,569.57           48.62 %
Technical Assistance        1,072,848.00     1,094,181.37            (21,333.37)         101.99 %
Studies and Training          50,853.00       56,402.17              (5,549.17)          110.91 %
Operating Costs              764,956.00       701,423.21             63,532.79            91.70 %
PPF'                         272,785.00       272,785.97               (0.97)            100.00 %
Sub Total                   3,525,000.00     2,787,781.15            737,218.85          79.09 %
Unallocated                                                            __l
Revolving Fund                                                                                       l
Total                       18,000,000.00   17,0f63,184.48           936,815.52          94.80 %
34



PPF = Project Preparation Facility
35






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29374
To Dor Es SsJo_oo             M
~~~~~~0                                                   MALWI
This mop wos poduc                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE
0ifh th opDw  Unilt:                           htmo                             VIS1  
the                                                   ~~~~~~~DIVISIONS
dot     tionrown                                                       REGIONS AND DISTRICTS
on this mop do not
imply, on the paJrt off         
The World Bon  Grop,o               RUMPHI
ony judgment on the legl ,
slobs of any terribory,  .^r,P  Kolowo                                             RNIPLRA
or ony endorsement                            R                                   PRINCIPAL ROADS
or oeptOrrmee of such
bou,rdori.s.
.J>r~- ' "   RIVERS
T ;' lnd.,    Lake            0    TOWNS
0    DISTRICT CAPITALS
NK          St. Augu4T       -     *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
g  Moinobo   ; ,;lS^Y  _t      /IAALAWI) 2DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
_ 1 ' ; - 0                                           (    Chiwmor -                      REGION BOJNDARIES
ZAMBIA                                                   s                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Cuu(  I                      MO       wi         KILOMETERS 0   20  40  60  80  100
chul. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~gch~                        j
¢    <    (<   <  \t  >\S\~~~~~~~)                 MILES o   20 40 6
J >    >Wb          S      ~~~Nkltlojf
MOZAMBIQUE                       1 @\  ! % M(:)ZAMBIQUE
To Weak.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9'ob
DEh RER        rok ci,nji/a5na
OF~~ CO t LNGWE4\  Onrt\
L. Tnngonyiko  I  -                  Chikuowo          henoo~~~~~~~~~~~L.k  IuaI 
*~~~~~             ~~~~         kuood g                                ToBeiroQ 2<,r  
ANGo>-Nk3  H      MACHINGA
hBOIAMBIQUE                                                    L
*~~ ~~~~~ Y..I$ 'C~Chiramo
NAM IBLA          , f                                      S     
BOSWA>_  
..Sr~!"  r                      <                  Tole
DEM, RE ,/                                                                          M°UCTh' LA  NJIbu  1998



