                                           Documentof

                                         The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                      ReportNo.: 27172 PA
                                                                                       -




 INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                    FORA PROPOSED

        ECONOMIC RECOVERY STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT LOAN

                       INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$30MILLION

                                           TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                     December2, 2003




PovertyReductionandEconomic ManagementDepartment
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country ManagementUnit
Latin America and CaribbeanRegionalOffice




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe
performance of tlieir official duties, Its contents may riot bc otherwise disclosedwithout
World Rank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           US$1.00 :G$6,200(+/-)Variable

                                   FISCAL YEAR

                               January 1-December31


                  GLOSSARYOFACRONYMS & SPECIAL TERMS



BNF                        Banco Nacional de Foment0 (National Development Bank)
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA                       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CISNI                      NationalIntegrity Council
CPAR                       Country Procurement AssessmentReport
DGCP                       Direccibn General de Contrataciones Pablicas (Directorate
                           General of Public Procurement)
ERL                        Economic Recovery Structural AdjustmentLoan
FSAL                       Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                       International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
IDB
m                          InterAmerican Development Bank
                           International Monetary Fund
IPS                        Znstituto de Previsibn Social (Social Security Institute)
Mercosur                   Mercado Comb del Sur
PRSP                       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SBA                        Standby Arrangement
SEPRELAD                   Secretaria de Prevencibn de Lavado de Dinero y Bienes
                           (Secretariatfor the Prevention of Money and Goods
                           Laundering)
SIAF                       IntegratedFinancial Management System
SOFIA                      Sistema de Ordenamiento Fiscal Impositivo Aduanero
TA                         Technical Assistance
UNDP                       UnitedNations Development Program
VAT                        Value AddedTax



Vice President:                                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                         Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Director:                                          Ernest0 May
Sector Manager:                                           Mauricio Carrizosa
LeadEconomist and Officer inCharge, Asunci6n:             Peter M.Hansen
Task Team Leaders:                                        Zeinab Partow and
                                                          Maria LuisaMasutti

                                                                         FORO F T I W USEONLY

                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS



         Loan andProgram Summary                                                                         i
         I. Introduction                                                                                 1
         11.       A New Political Context for Credibility andReform                                     3
         III. EconomicBackgroundandRecentDevelopments                                                    4
                  A.      RecentDevelopments, 2002-2003                                                  6
                  B.      MediumTerm Projections                                                        10
         IV.      The Government's Medium-Term Strategy                                                 12
         V.       The ProposedLoan                                                                      22
                  A.      Fiduciary Policies                                                            24
                  B. Environmental Aspects                                                              25
                  C.      Risks                                                                         25

         Tables

         Table 1.         SelectedFiscal Indicators of the Central Government, % of GDP                  5
         Table 2.         Growth rates of Per Capita GDP                                                 5
         Table 3.         MainMacroeconomicVariables                                                     7
         Table 4.         Public Sector Debt, by Lender, millions of US$                                 9
         Table 5.         EstimatedCentral GovernmentFinancingNeeds, millions of US$                    10
         Table 6:         DebtService Obligations, FourthQuarter, 2003                                  10
         Table 8.         IBRD/IDALoanTransactions (calendar year)                                      28

         Annexes

         Annex I: Matrix of Policy Actions                                                              29
         Annex 11: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy (Spanish)                                                38
         Annex III. Letter of Development Policy (EnglishTranslation)                                   55
         Annex IV: Paraguayat a Glance                                                                  69
         Annex V:
         Annex VI: Paraguay-Key ExposureIndicators
                          Paraguay-Key Economic Indicators                                              71
                                                                                                        73
         Annex VII: CAS Paraguay, Operations Portfolio                                                  75


        This operation was prepared by a World Bank Team consisting of: Linn Hammergren (Senior Public
       Sector Management Specialist, LCSPS), Peter M. Hansen(Lead Economist, LCCPY), Luz Meza-Bartrina
       (Senior Counsel, LEGLA), RafaelRofman (SeniorEconomist, LCSHS), Jaime Roman(Lead Procurement
       Specialist, LCOPR), Paul Sisk (Senior Financial Management Specialist, LCOAA), Jorge San Martino
       (Consultant), and Mariela Alvarez (Program Assistant, LCC7C). The Team is led by Zeinab Partow
       (LCSPE) and Maria Luisa Masutti (LCC7A). The Team would like to express appreciation to our
       counterparts in the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and the Ministry of Funcidn
       Pliblica for their collaborationand support inthe preparationof this operation.

This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                   Paraguay
                 Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment
                        Loanand ProgramSummary

Borrower         Republic of Paraguay

Implementing     Ministry of Finance
Agency

Poverty Category Not applicable

Amount           US$30,000,000

Terms            FixedSpreadLoan payable in23 years, including 5 years of grace,
                 with a commitment linkedlevel payment.

Front-End Fee    A front-end fee of 1percent of the loan amount will be paidto the
                 Bank from the loan proceeds.

Objectives       The objectives of the government's program to be supportedby the
                 Loan are improvedpublic sector management and fiscal
                 sustainability. These would support a solid economic recovery in
                 the medium-term that would pave the way for sustainedhigher
                 growthrates, a returnto positive per capita economic growth, and
                 significant poverty reduction.

Description      This single-tranche loan supportsthe presentation to Congressof a
                 budget consistent with attaining a primary surplus for 2004, and
                 financial sector reforms to reduce the fiscal liabilities associated
                 with poor bankingresolution practices and deposit guarantee
                 schemes. The operation also backs the presentation to Congress of
                 major reforms inthe tax system, inthe public sector pension
                 scheme and inthe customs code, and supports numerous actions in
                 improvingpublic sector administration, including, but not limited
                 to: the implementation of the newly regulatedpublic procurement
                 law, censuses of public sector employees and of the contributors
                 andbeneficiaries of the public pension scheme, and the adoption of
                 a financial management action plan to enhancetransparency and
                 strengthenaudit and independent review functions.

Benefits         TheLoan would provide financial support to the first phaseof the
                 government's medium-termprogram of actions andpolicy
                 reforms, and aims to improve fiscal sustainability and the
                 effectiveness of the public sector, helpingthe new administration
                 to returnto an orderly financing schedule and to move to
                 implementits ambitious medium-termagendafor economic



                                       i

                  recovery and for the return to a path of sustained growth and
                  meaningful poverty reduction.

Risks             A key risk is the lack of atrack record inimplementing high-
                  quality reforms. The government's reform strategy i s an ambitious
                  one, with major reforms to be approved by Congress within a short
                  periodof time. Efforts to tackle corruption andincreaseefficiency
                  inthe public sector figureprominently inthis strategy, andcould
                  ignite resistanceand unrest, possibly resulting ina retreat from, or
                  dilution of, the reform agenda. Mitigating these risks are the new
                  administration's concerted efforts to reach a wide-ranging political
                  consensus for its reformprogram.

                  There are also significant implementation risks to the measures
                  already taken by the government and supportedby the Loan, as a
                  result of the weak capacity of the public sector. These may
                  endanger the sustainability of the reforms inthe mediumterm. The
                  administration's understanding and demonstratedwillingness to act
                  on public sector strengthening and reform are mitigating factors, as
                  i s the assistance it i s seeking, from the Bank, the IDB, and others
                  for advice, lending and technical assistanceinthis area.

Project I.D. No.  PO86543




                                            ii

   INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                           PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORAN
     ECONOMICRECOVERYSTRUCTURALADJUSTMENT LOANTO THE
                              REPUBLICOFPARAGUAY


      I. Introduction

 1,      The proposedEconomic Recovery Loan, a single tranche loan inthe amount of
US$30million, would support apackageof actions and reforms to bring the fiscal
accounts to a sustainablepaththat would pave the way for higher growth rates, a return to
positive per capita economic growth, andsignificant poverty reduction. Specifically, the
Loan would provide financial support to the first phaseof the government's medium-term
program of actions andpolicy reforms inthe areas of fiscal stabilization and deficit
reduction, tax policy, public administration and anti-corruption measures, financial sector
reforms, and pension reform, helpingthe new administration to returnto an orderly
financing schedule. All these measures andpolicies arejudgedto be essentialto the
attainment of the final objective of the government's strategy, namely an economic
recovery followed by areturn to sustainedgrowth, and poverty reduction. A matrix of
policy actions to be backed by the Loancan be found inAnnex I.     The matrix presentsan
ambitious menuof actions as well as policy reforms beingpursuedby the government.

2.       Thenew administration is seekingto buildits credibility andthat of its economic
program through a campaign for increasedtransparency andagainst tax evasion, a fiscal
reform package, the quality of its economic and social team, consensus-building as
representedby theAcuerdo Politico signed with the legislature as well as outreachto
civil society, and by havingreachedan agreement with the IMFon a 15-month Stand-By
Arrangement. The government's commitment to up-front policy actions, the concrete
measuresalready taken to address fiscal problems, the efforts to tackle the thorny
challengesof public administration reform andto increasetransparency of government
are a demonstration of its determination to confront Paraguay's difficulties head-on. The
new government i s acting on the oft-stated recommendation to take quick action during
the first months of an administration to set the tone for the coming years.

3.       The administration, inoffice since August 15th2003, has movedwith remarkable
speed to address some of the mainimmediate obstacles impedingParaguay's return to a
path of sustainedeconomic growth and meaningful poverty reduction. The challenge
faced by the administration i s meeting short runfinancing demands as well as medium-
term fiscal sustainability and growth objectives. A number of measureshave beentaken
to address the short-run financing and fiscal demands. These include controlling
expenditures and raisingrevenues inthe near term, involving, among other actions, a
public sector wage freeze and a crackdown on tax evasion. Similarly, the administration
i s also well-advanced in the design of a packageof medium-term reforms to reduce
Paraguay's public sector deficit and ensure the protection, and indeed expansion, of
spendingon the social sectors, and the availability of resources for public sector
operating costs, service delivery and capital investment.


                                              1

4.       The challenge facing the administration is a daunting one. The new government
inherited a difficult social, economic and financial situation. Over the past five years,
average GDP growth has beennegative, andindollar terms, per capita GDP (Atlas
methodology) has shrunk from about US$1900 in 1996to US$1180 last year.
Deterioration has been such that, today, per capita income i s lower than it was in 1990.
The lack of correspondencebetweenrevenues and expenditureshas ledto a rising deficit,
includingprimary deficits since the mid-l990s, and to acute financing difficulties and
increasing indebtedness, as evidenced with particular severity in 2002 and again this year.
The previous administration was unable to address the structural problems related to low
revenues and high spending, or to meet its December 2002 debt obligations, either
external or domestic. It was also unable to pay public sector salaries and pensions.The
current administration has, inresponse, formulated a medium-term package of reforms
supported by immediate revenue and expenditure measures, and, inthis context has
requestedBank assistanceinthe form of the proposed Economic Recovery Structural
Adjustment Loan.

5.       The specific actions backed by the operation include expenditure reduction and
revenue improvement measuresdesignedto ensure an immediate improvement of the
fiscal deficit in 2003, and the presentation of a budget for 2004 aimed at a continued
reduction of the fiscal deficit and the attainment of a primary surplus.The Loan also
supports the reform of tax laws to help ensuregreater equity intreatment and an increase
inthe incentives for compliance, thus positivelyimpactingthe fiscal accounts as well as
the credibility of the tax administration and the public sector as a whole. Another
important reform i s the strengthening of bankingresolution processesand of the deposit
guarantee scheme, which will assist ingenerating greater confidence inthe financial
system, strengthening its critical intermediation functions, andreducing the contingent
fiscal liabilities associatedwith the sector. The tackling of large deficits inthe public
sector pension fund forms anotherof the axes of the government's program supported by
the proposed operation, addressingthe maindrain on government finances, improving the
solvency of the public pension system and providingthe basis for further reforms of the
pension system. The Loan also supports a series of key measuresto addressthe problems
of corruption, lack of transparency, efficiency andeffectiveness inthe public sector.
While the timingof the government's actions is aimedto ensure fiscal resourcesfor 2003
and 2004, the measureshave been conceived within a medium-term program.

6.       The proposedLoan would form part of a larger financing plan, with burden-
sharing among the multilateralcreditors as well as domestic creditors, to ensure that the
administration i s able to manageits end-of-year obligations and to allow it to move to
resolve medium-term issues crucial to maintaining the stability and credibility that is a
pre-requisite for attaining higher economic growth rates. Inaddition to the Bank and the
IMF,the IDBis alsopreparingaUS$30millionoperationfor Boardpresentationin
December, 2003, supporting the protection of priority social expenditures. The
government has also reached an agreement to reschedule domestic debt with commercial
banks and with construction companies who supply the public sector. The Bank's
assistanceat this crucial time would lendcredibility to the government's program,



                                               2

   11. A New Political Context for Reform

7.      The election of PresidentDuarteFrutos inlate April of this year, and the
subsequentinauguration of the new administration on August 15th, appear to have
broken the longperiodof inter- and intra-party divisions that hadhampered any progress
on structural reforms. The President and his administration have promised to address the
fundamental problems of public sector corruption, to give priority to the social sectors
andto alleviate ruralpoverty. After half a decade of economic decline, this discoursehas
raised highexpectations that the new administration i s serious about reforming the
country's frail institutions.

8.      Soon after winning the elections, the first to be completed without questions of
legitimacy, the president-elect appointed a "cabinet-in-waiting", with severalkey
members from outside his own Colorado Party, includingthe Minister of Finance. The
new team, composed of many well-respected technicians and with several members
culledfrom the private sector, movedrapidly to establish its agenda, working with the
previous administration duringthe transition periodto define an austerebudget for 2004,
design a packageof basic economic reforms and elaborate administrative measures
addressing public sector transparency and efficiency.

9.      Some of the first tasks undertaken, even before the formal assumption of the
Presidency, were the cleaning up of two notoriously corrupt state institutions: the state
development bank (BancoNacional de Fomento, BNF) and the state social security
institute (Institutu de Previsibn Social, IPS). Measureswere announcedto close
uneconomic branches and for the sale of 500 properties owned by the BNFin order to
restore liquidity, as was the removal of corrupt officials from key positions inthe IPS.
Other initial steps have been taken towards greater transparency. All ministers and high
level appointees, for example, have publicly disclosed their personal assets. The top
command inthe military andnational police, viewed as corrupt and inefficient, havebeen
replaced.The President, with the support of the opposition, has also taken on the difficult
political challenge of changing a large part of the Supreme Court, widely viewed as an
important source of the impunity and corruption that plague the country.

10.     The administration has also made strenuousefforts to obtain the support of
opposition parties, which control the Senate and have a working majority inthe Chamber
of Deputies, on apackage of basic reform legislation. As a result, a more constructive
politicalenvironment currently exists inplace of the political stalemate and in-fighting
within andbetweenparties inthe past. The government signeda political agreement with
the heads of the two legislative chambers to support its packageof priority laws designed
to stabilized finances and reactivate the economy. While positions will inevitably differ
on the specifics of every law, a consensus exists that economic and social conditions are
so serious that all parties must work together inthe national interest. Politicians are
respondingto the public demandsfor greater transparency andinitiatives inthis direction
have a better chance of prospering than they have hadat any time inthe recent past.


                                               3

  111. Economic Background andRecent Developments

11.      Paraguayi s a small open economy, heavily dependent on agricultural
commodities and on regional conditions, particularly those of its large neighbors, Brazil
and Argentina. This has left the Paraguayaneconomy vulnerable to events over which it
has little control, including international commodity prices andpolitical and economic
events inits neighbors. Economic management was gradualist and fairly prudent inthe
years following the endof the military dictatorship in 1989, with balancedfiscal
accounts, small current account deficits and declininginflation, and growth performance
was moderate andrelatively stable. The protracted slow growth since the mid-1990s is a
reflectionof slow progresswith structural reforms, widespread corruption and a decline
intotal factor productivity associatedwith ashrinkinginvestmentratio. Rather than
pursuingreforms that could assistthe economy in weathering external shocks,
consecutive administrations were generally unwilling to undertake the reforms required
to impart the neededresiliency to manageregional volatility, to address the major
governanceproblems, to buildan effective and responsive public sector, or to modernize
the country's productive infrastructure.

12.      This combination of factors was, duringthe mid-andlate 199Os, exacerbatedby a
series of external and domestic shocks. Major banking crises in 1995 and in 1997-98 led
to the closure of a number of domestic banks, the reduction of credit to the private sector,
and a sharp drop inprivate investment. Addressing problems inthe financial systemi s a
central challenge facing the new administration. Banking crises andrescuesinthe early
and mid-1990s are estimated to have cost 11percent of GDP. Beyondtheir fiscal
implications, bankingstress and weaknesshave meant that the financial systemhas not
fulfilledits crucial role inintermediating resourcesto the private sector. The results have
beenvery damaging: analysis suggests that the debilitated state of Paraguay's financial
system, its crises, and lack of financial depth cost the country nearly 2.5 percentage
points of GDP growth per year duringthe mid-to late 1990s.'

13.      On another front, Paraguay's terms of trade deteriorated significantly over the last
5 years; the price of soybeans and cotton (the latter i s Paraguay's main labor-intensive
agricultural product) declined by 50 percent between 1995 and 2001, while oil prices
rose. Paraguaysuffered droughts in 1999,2000, and most recently in2002. The economy
has also beenbatteredby adverse developments in its main trading partners,includingthe
Brazilian devaluation in 1999 andrecessionand financial turmoil inArgentina in 2001-
2002.

14.      On the fiscal front, the growing lack of correspondencebetweenrevenues and
expenditures over the past decade (Table l),     exacerbatedby lack of reform, has led to a
rising deficit, to growing financing needs and indebtedness, accompaniedby increasing
interest payments. Paraguay's revenues have failed to keep pace with a spendingtrend

'Loayza, etal. 2002. Economic Growth in Latin America and the Caribbean.


                                                4

that i s growingbeyondthe country's ability to finance it. As aresult of these imbalances,
the country has turnedto runningprimary deficits since the mid-1990s.

  Table 1.SelectedFiscalIndicatorsof the CentralGovernment, % of GDP

                           1995       1996     1997     1998     1999       2000      2001  2002e
Expenditures                15.6       15.8    16.9     16.8      20.1      19.9      18.5   19.2
Revenues                    15.3       14.7    15.4     15.8      16.5      15.7      17.4   16.0
 o/w Tax Revenues           12.3       11.5    11.8     11.6      11.1      11.1      11.3   9.3
Overall Balance             -0.3       -1.1    -1.4     -1.0      -3.4      -4.3       -1.1  -3.2
Primary Balance             0.4        0.5     -1.0     -0.2      -2.8      -3.1       0.2   -1.7
Source: Ministry of Finance, IMFand Bank Staff estimates

15.      The cocktail of external vulnerability and a poor policy and institutional
environment has resulted inan exceptionally poor growth performance since the mid-
1990s, with GDP growth averaging 1percent per year, while annualpopulation growth
rates stand at 2.6 percent. The outcome has been a secular decline inper capita GDP to
pre-1990levels with increasingpoverty exacerbatedbypolarizedincome andland
distribution (Table 2). Deterioration has been such that, today, per capita income i s lower
than it was in 1990. While 34 percent of the population was consideredto live inpoverty
in2001, the levelhasrisen since then as the worst economic recessionin20 years gained
force in2002. In2001, the poor population amountedto nearly 2 millionpersons, almost
half of whom constituted the extreme poor. This i s an increaseof nearly half a million
people inpoverty between 1995 and 2001. Recent preliminaryestimates point to a further
alarming increase inthe poverty rate over the past two years, with a corresponding
increaseinextreme poverty.

         Table2. Growthratesof Per Capita GDP

                                   1960s          1970s          1980s             1990s
       Argentina                     2.5            1.4            -2.8             3.4
       Bolivia                       0.5            1.7            -1.9             1.4
       Brazil                        3.3           6.0             -0.3             1.3
       Chile                         1.9            1.4            2.3              5.1
       Colombia                      2.2           3.1              1.3             0.8
       Costa Rica                   2.0            2.8             -0.4             3.O
       Ecuador                       1.3           6.0             -0.4            -0.3
       ElSalvador                   2.2            0.0             -1.4             2.5
       Honduras                      1.6           2.2             -0.7             0.4
       Mtxico                       3.4            3.7             -0.2             1.9
       Nicaragua                    3.5            -2.2            -3.9            -0.2
       Panama                       4.8            1.5             -0.5             2.7
       PARAGUAY                     1.8            5.9             -0.2            -0.7
       Peru                         2.4            0.9             -2.6             2.3
       Uruguay                      0.4            2.7             -0.5             2.4
       Venezuela                     1.5           -0.7            -1.6            -0.1
       Average                      2.2            2.3             -0.8             1.5
         Source: Loayza, et al. 2002, Economic Growth inLatin America and the Caribbean




                                                  5

16.     Inequality is also highinParaguayrelative to other countries inthe region.
Nationalsurveys point to a Gini coefficient of 0.53 for the country as a whole, with urban
areas registering a coefficient between0.47 and 0.49, while inrural areas it stands
between 0.53 and0.57. The inequality gap betweenrural and urban areas has increased
over time. The wealthiest 10percent of the Paraguayanpopulation consumes 90 times
what the poorest 10 percent consumes, one of the worst ratios inthe world. This i s partly
a reflection of extreme inequality inlandownership, where the Gini coefficient stands at
0.93. Ten percent of the rural population owns two-thirds of the land, while 30 percent of
the population i s landless.

    A. RecentDevelopments, 2002-2003

17.     Economic conditions worsenedin 2002: GDP contracted by 2.3 percentage
points, leading to a contraction inper capita income of over 4 percent; inflation rose to
double digits, the guarani depreciatedby 50 percent2,and the central government's fiscal
situation deteriorated, reaching a deficit of 3.2 percent of GDP by the end of 2002 (Table
3). The worsening economic outlook was the result of a number of factors, including
Argentina's crisis and the 70 percent loss inthe value of its currency; Brazil's 30 percent
currency devaluation andpolitical uncertainty; andthe deposit runinUruguay. These
shocks damagedParaguay's trade with its Mercosur partners, reduced workers'
remittances by an estimated 80 percent (nearly 1percent of GDP), and spurred a banking
crisis that cost the system over 20 percent of its deposits. A lack of reform indomestic
economic policies exacerbatedthe downturn, combined with the sharp contraction in
bank lending and a drought that ledto apoor harvestinkey agricultural products.

18.     Given the deteriorating domestic economy and the regional crisis of 2001-2, the
previous administration entered into discussions with the multilateralinstitutions on the
formulation of policies inthe fiscal andfinancial areas that could help it deal with the
impact of regional contagion andrecession. This followed an IMFStaff Monitored
Program during2001, where improvements were achieved ineconomic performance,
although due to political infighting and legislative stalemates, there was little progress on
structural reforms. The continuedpolitical inability to advance on anumber of key
fronts, including the consideration of key bankinglegislation and of afiscal law to
increaserevenues and curb spending, resultedinthe failure to come to closure on an
agreement with the Fund, and forfeiture of additional resources that could have become
available from the World Bank and the IDB.Giventhe lack of available financing to
compensatefor the loss of privatization receipts, and with no access to international
capital markets, the fiscal gap was largely financed by delaying public sector salary
payments, postponing public investment expenditures, drawing down deposits at the
Central Bank and accumulating arrears to suppliers.At the endof 2002, growing arrears
on debt service amounted to close to 3 percent of GDP.




 Accumulated annual nominal devaluationof the guaranildollar exchange rate at end-December 2002.


                                                6

  Table3. MainMacroeconomicVariables

                                                       1999   2000      2001     2002e    2003pr
   GDP(% growth)                                        0.5    -0.4      2.7      -2.3      1.5
   CentralGov. Balance(% of GDP)                        -3.4   -4.3     -1.1      -3.2     -1.5
   CentralGov. PrimaryBalance(% of GDP)                 -2.8   -3.1      0.2       -1.7     0.2
   PublicSector ExternalDebt(% of GDP)                  31.9   33.9     38.4      48.4     49.8
   CurrentAccountBalance(% of GDP)                      -2.1   -2.1      -4.0      1.7      4.3

   CPIInflation,e-o-p (%)                               5.4     8.6      8.4       14.6     7.5
   Depreciation,e-o-p (%) (+ =depreciation)             16.7    6.9     30.7      50.0     -10.0
   Imports(% growth)                                   -27.0   -6.7      -1.6     -21.0     4.0
   Exports(% growth)                                   -27.0   -15.1     -0.4      -8.5    12.5

  Source: Ministry o f Finance, IMF and Bank Staff estimates

 19.      These severe difficulties infinancing the fiscal deficit continue today, although
economic performance has stabilized, albeit at a low level, as a result of the good
performance of the Paraguayanagricultural sector and more stableregional conditions.
Abundant harvests andimproving international prices for Paraguay's main exports (soya
and cotton) have resultedin an exceptionally good performance of the agriculture and
export sectors this year, and, as agriculture constitutes about one fourth of the Paraguayan
economy, GDPthis year i s forecast to grow by about 1.5 percent.Duringthe first nine
months of the year, soybeanexport earnings were up 95 percent, year-on-year; soybeans
accountedfor 50 percent of all exports earnings between January and September. Export
earnings from cotton, a cash crop for many small farmers, were also up by 50 percent
duringthe January-Septemberperiod, when compared to the sameperiodlast year. As
imports have remainedrelatively stable from last year, the current account surplus in
2003 i s expectedto rise to over 4 percent of GDP. Substantial unregistered trade also
takes place, largely composedof re-exports to Brazil, and to a lesser extent, to Argentina,
although the abolishing of tariffs between Mercosur members has taken a steadily
growing toll on these flows. Stronger border control efforts by both Paraguayand Brazil
have also hadan impact.

20.       The projectedimprovement inthe economic growthrate for this year is, however,
exclusively due to better agricultural performance, and while regional conditions have
improved over 2002, and economic reactivation inArgentina may eventually stimulate
demandfor trade and for Paraguayanlabor, generating remittances, this will take some
time. Most other sectors of the economy are stagnating or contracting, including the
retail, finance and construction sectors. Bank credit to the private sector, for example,
has plummetedby about a third since January 2002.The bankingsystem i s highly
dollarized, andremains vulnerable to shocks. Other major problems include the critical
conditionof the public development bank, the BNF, which suffers from bothlack of
liquidity andinsolvency, with non-performing loans constituting more than half of its


                                                   7

loanportfolio. Serious issues also include: the weakness of bank resolution and
supervision processesand institutions; accounting practices and norms that do not
comply with international standards and that over-estimate local bank solvency; a deposit
guarantee system that relies on direct financial support from the State; an antiquated
banking law lackingmodern resolution procedures; and vulnerability of the Central Bank
to interference and pressurefrom the Executive.

21.     Duringthe first half of 2003 the Central Bank injected liquidity into the
financial systemby intervening inthe currency market to weaken the strengthening
guarani, andby granting credit to the central government to shoreup the latter's finances.
Incombination with buoyant export inflows, thishasresultedinanincreaseinthe money
supply. Inother respects, such as the highreserve requirements on instant-access deposits
at commercial banks, monetary policy remains tight. Lendingrates, at almost 50 percent
inlocalcurrency, are highbuthavebegunto fall inrecentmonths. Withhigher export
earnings, foreign reserveshave risen by one-third to about US$825 million, and the
guaranihas strengthenedfrom its sharp depreciation of 2002, registering an appreciation
of 12percent so far in 2003 against the U S dollar, inpart as a result of increasedexport
earnings and inpart due to the appreciation of the Brazilianreal and Argentine peso.
Inflation rates have dropped slightly to an annualized 9.9 percent at the end of October
2003.

22.     The government's fiscal situation remains extremely tight, with virtually no
access to fresh financing available for most of 2002 and 2003, either domestically or
externally, and with continued delays inmeeting mandatory expenditures, including
salaries, pensions and debt service, which together consume over 90 percent of total
expenditure. This cash squeeze i s expectedto reduce the central administration's deficit
to about 2.1 percent of GDP this year. Although various categoriesof expenditure have
expandedover the past few years, notably capital spending and pension transfers, the
category that i s responsible for the lion's share i s wages and salaries of public servants.
Today, the portion of spending that i s consumedby wages and salaries inParaguayi s one
of the highest inLatin America.

23.     Another major drain on the fiscal accounts i s the CajaFiscal,the pension scheme
covering civil servants, teachers, police, the military, judicial sector employees as well as
some non-contributory pension, largely those of the Chaco War veterans. The Caja
returned a deficit estimated at 1.9 percent of GDPin 2002, constituting almost two-thirds
of the Central Administration's under-run. The CajaFiscal has required continuous
support from generalrevenues over recent years. Financial problems stem from numerous
causes including, among others, the generosity of the system and its benefits, the fact that
retirement requirements are easily satisfied, and that pensionshave grown without a
commensurate increaseincontributions.

24.     Despite the lack of access to international markets, central government debt
amountedto about 37 percent of GDP, and total public sector debt i s estimated to have
reachedabout 50 percent of GDP in2002, or about US$2.8 billion, with the vast majority
(88 percent) being external debt (Table 4). The 2002 debt ratio reflects a 10percentage



                                               8

point increasewith respectto its 2001level; this is the result of the depreciation of the
guarani and continued poor growth performance rather than a significantly higher level of
dollar debt. The central government's stock of debt in2002 represented250 percent of
total estimated revenues for the year, although the structure of the debt, beinglargely
long-run and concessional means that, barring a further huge depreciation of the guarani,
debt service payments are not projectedto increasedramatically inthe mediumterm.
Debtservice representedabout 1.7 percent of GDPin2002, upfrom 1.3 percentin2001.


  Table 4. Public Sector Debt, by Lender, millions of US$

                                                       1999    2000    2001       2002 e
     Total Debt                                        2878    2780     2693       2804
      - External Debt                                  2641    2519     2359       2481
        Multilaterals                                   1094   1185     1169       1222
           Ofwhich IDB                                  802    862      852        884
                    World Bank                          182    201      205        216
        Bilaterals                                      1000   1028     986        1036
      - DomesticDebt                                    237    261      334        323

     Source: Ministryo f Finance, IMFand Bank Staff estimates

25.     The chronic shortfall inrevenuesversus spending obligations means that debt
service has presenteda serious challenge to the government throughout 2003. The new
administration has neverthelessstatedits policy of meeting obligations and giving
multilateralcreditors priority. It inherited arrears of 30 days to IBRDwhen taking office,
butbecamecurrent at the endof August. The large debt service payments due during the
final quarter of 2003, mean that the government faces a large financing gap estimated at
about US$175 million (Table 5). During the final quarter of 2003, the administration will
have nearly US$180 million indebt service obligations to meet (Table 6).

26.     To strengthenits near-termprogram and to provide greater credibility to its efforts
to stabilize fiscal and macro-economic conditions, the administration recently signed a
15-month Standby-Agreement (SBA) with the IMF,to cover its financing needs for 2003
and 2004. The agreement will allow it to obtain fresh financing from bothprivate and
multilateralcreditors inamounts sufficient to cover the unmet obligations.




                                                9

  Table5. EstimatedCentralGovernmentFinancingNeeds,millions of US$

                                                            2003pr               2004pr
                                                   Millions of
                                                      us$       % of GDP Millions of
                                                                          us$        %of GDP

Gross Financing Requirements                           310         5.5      284        4.9
  Deficit                                              120         2.1        84       1.5
  Amortizations                                        190         3.4       200       3.4
   External debt amortizations                         100         1.8       152       2.6
   Domestic debt amortizations                         90          1.6        48       0.8

Identified Financing                                   135         2.4       140       2.4
Disbursements                                          112         2.0       140       2.4
Central Bank Credit                                    25          0.4        --        --

Estimated FinancingGap                                 175         3.1       144       2.5

PossibleFinancing Scenario                             175         3.1       144       2.5
Fiscal adjustment (increase inrevenues)                 33         0.6        --        --
Domestic debt renegotiation                             92          1.6       --        --
ProgramLending                                          50         0.9        90        1.5
   World Bank                                           30         0.5        25       0.4
   IDB                                                  20         0.4        65        1.1
Possible bilateral debt restructuring                   -_          _-        54       0.9
Source: Ministry o f Finance, IMFand Bank Staff estimates

  Table6: DebtServiceObligations,FourthQuarter,2003*
                                        Millions of US dollars


                                 Domestic Bonds                 89.0
                                 External Debtors               89.7
                                    Multilateral                43.6
                                    Bilateral                   40.3
                                    Commercial Banks            1.o
                                    Other                       4.8
                                 Total                         178.7

                               Source: Ministry o f Finance
                              * Including arrears



    B. MediumTermProjections

27.     Underascenarioof no change inpolicies, andinthe absence of significant
adjustment andreforms, the lack of financing would result inthe rapidaccumulation of
arrears with the associatedrising debt andinterest payments, and an unsustainable debt
situation. The scenario outlinedinTable 7 assumes that a set of comprehensive fiscal



                                                     10

and structural adjustments are undertaken to put the economy on a sustainablefiscal path,
while boosting long-run potential output growth.

28.     The macroeconomic framework assumes that reforms would raise the medium-
term growth rate from 1.5 percent under a no-reform, baseline scenario, to about 3.5
percent inthe mediumterm. The real exchangerate i s also assumedto stabilize as aresult
of improvedproductivity growth, which also allows inflation to decline to 5 percent per
year. While exports are projectedto performwell, imports are assumedto grow more
rapidly as a result of the reactivation of domestic demand.

29.     The scenario is basedon the implementation of the government's fiscal
adjustment program beginning inlate 2003 and early 2004, and which i s explained in
detailinSection IV. The specific componentsare an increaseinrevenues, through the
approval of the proposed tax reform, estimatedto contribute a gradual 1.5 percent of
GDPas its measures come into effect, most importantly the increaseinVAT collections
through the widening of the tax base andthe eliminationof most exemptions. Other
contributors to increasedrevenues and lower spendingare adjustments infuel prices, an
increaseincontributions to the CajaFiscal, and a reduction of pension benefits3leading
to a reduction inthe deficit of the pension systemby 0.5 percent of GDPinthe medium
term, a temporary freeze in the wage bill, and continued improvement intax and customs
administration. Also assumedi s that the gradual reduction incurrent spending would lead
to a commensurate increase incapital expenditures.Expectedmeasures to ensure
increasedefficiency inpublic enterpriseswould allow annual surpluses for the
Consolidated Public Sector, thus contributing to the decline intotal public sector debt.
Primary surpluses would be obtained on the order of 2-2.5 percent of GDP, allowingthe
gradual reduction of the debt burden.

30.     The adjustment would create the climate of confidence neededfor the private
sector to increase its investment inthe economy, thereby spurringgrowth. Further, a
public sector infiscal balance would reducethe demands on the banking system,
allowing more credit for private activity. As the debt-to-GDP ratio declines, the primary
surpluscouldbe easedto accommodategreaterinvestment, without jeopardizing debt
sustainability.

31.     The adjustment scenario i s particularly sensitive to assumptionsregarding the
stability of the exchange rate. Paraguay's debt, while much of it on concessional terms
(about 30 percent of the total debt stock), i s almost entirely denominated inforeign
currency and thus i s highly sensitive to variations inthe exchange rate. Mitigating this
sensitivity of the debt profile to the exchangerate, to a certain extent, i s the fact that
Paraguayenjoys significant dollar-denominated royalties from the Itaipuhydroelectric
plant. A reform scenario assumes that banking sector reform, a clearly focused monetary
policy and small deficits would allow the economy to better withstand external shocks.




 Although the impact of the reduction inpensionbenefits would only be felt inthe outer years.


                                                 11

  Table 7. MediumTerm Projections, Adjustment Scenario

                                                 2003e    2004        2005       2006
          RealSector
          Real GDP Growth (%)                     1.5      2.3        2.8          3.2
          CPI Inflation(%)                        7.5      7.0        6.0          5.0
          Gross Domestic Investment               19.0     19.0       20.0        20.0
           (% of GDP)
          Exports (% growth)                      12.5     -4.4       5.1          5.0
          Imports (% growth)                      4.0      3.3        5.2          5.9

          CentralGovernmentFinances
          (% of GDP)
          Revenues                                16.1     16.5       17.2        17.5
            Tax revenues                          9.4      9.8        10.5        10.8
              Of which tax reform                  --      0.5         1.2         1.5
          Expenditures                            17.6     17.6       17.5        17.6
           Of which Interest payments             1.7      2.4        2.4          2.5
          PrimaryBalance                          0.2       1.3       2.1          2.4
          Overall Balance                         -1.5     -1.1       -0.3         -0.1

          TotalPublicsector debt                  49.8     47.3       46.4        43.1

          Balanceofpayments
          Current Account (% of GDP)              4.3       1.o        1.3         0.6

         Source: Banks Staff estimates

  IV. The Government's Medium-Term Strategy

32.      Inabreak with pastad-hoc practice, the new administration has elaboratedamore
strategic approachto medium-term policy making, with aclear identificationof priority
areas and with the elaboration of a program of future actions to support objectives. The
 administration's strategic medium-term objectives emphasize the need for improved
 governance, modernization of the state and social development within a context of
macroeconomic stability, a strengthenedfinancial sector and a competitive environment.
These objectives, and the substanceof many of the measuresthe government intends to
take intheir support, are inconsiderable concurrence with the conclusions and
recommendations of the Bank's Policy Options report for the new admini~tration.~The
Policy Options document i s a comprehensive one, covering all areas of Bank expertise in
the country, and was presentedto, and discussed in detail with, the government inlate
June, 2003. The Executive has since distributed the Policy Options report to the newly-
elected Congress. There has been a significant convergenceof views on many structural
reforms between the Bank andthe government, as evidenced by the fact that several of
the measures and actions, describedbelow, and taken by the administration since it came
to office, were identifiedas areas for possible action inthe Policy Options report. This
has also ledto an intensified dialogue where Bank staff have hadthe opportunity to

~~    ~~



4 The World Bank. Paraguay Creando las Condicionespara un Crecimiento Sustentable: Opcionesde
Politica para la NuevaAdministracidn. June, 2003.


                                                 12

comment on many of the reformmeasurescurrently being considered.It i s also notable
that the government's strategyhas enjoyed ahighlevel of visibility and of commitment at
the level of the Presidentand on down to his team, andhas beensupported by vigorous
consensus-building efforts.

33.     The administration's development strategy i s built on the clear recognition that
new approaches are needed to address Paraguay's deeply-entrenchedproblems. It
revolves around five main long-term objectives: the formalization of the economy, an
improvedcompetitive climate for the private sector, a more efficient public sector, export
diversification with an emphasis on agro-industry, and greater investment inhuman and
physical capital. These broad objectives would be achievedby taking action infive key
areas, or pillars:

            Correction of fiscal imbalances and the move towards fiscal sustainability
            The recuperation of trust inthe State andits institutions
        1   Economic growth, with social and fiscal responsibility
        m   Poverty reduction
        m   Greater participation by civil society inthe formulation andmonitoring of
            public policy.

34.     The government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex II)      outlines the
objectives and actions that form the basis of this strategy. The strategy assigns initial
priority to the needfor fiscal stabilization as a necessarycondition for economic recovery
and growth. Elements of this strategy, described ingreater length below, include
significant reforms to the tax systemand to the public pension scheme. Similarly,
reforming and strengthening the financial sector is consideredto be key, both inorder to
reducethe system's vulnerability to crises and the huge costs that these have entailed and
to ensure a strong contribution from the sector to Paraguay's future growth. Congress
recently approved key legislation proposedby the administration for improving bank
resolution procedures, which i s to be followed inthe future by further reforms to the
financial system, including a restructuring of public banks.

35.     The other key elements of the government's medium-term strategy comprise the
prioritizationof actions to improve governance, restore confidence in state institutions,
provide a key role for civil society informulating priorities and monitoring the processes
of governance and create amore amenable environment for private sector activity. This is
to be accomplished with coordinated anti-corruption andtransparencyefforts in
numerous areas of the public sector, includingfinancial management and procurement
and improvedtax andcustoms administration, among others. Private sector activity
would be supportedthrough the implementationof fiscal andmonetary discipline under
clear and stablerules, a strengthenedfinancial sector, andjudicial security. Another
priority inthe government's mediumstrategy i s the elaboration of a well-focused and
targeted social strategy to achieve povertyreduction and social development within a
context of macroeconomic stability. Inthis area, the strategycalls for efforts to expand
coverage, quality and efficiency of basic social services such as education, public health,
andwater and sanitation, andfor improvedtargeting of social protectionprograms.



                                              13

36.     The proposedLoan would support the initial phase of this medium-term strategy,
namely the correction of fiscal imbalances and the move towards fiscal sustainability on
the one hand, andthe recuperation of trust inthe State and its institutions on the other. In
this respect, the government has already formulated a two-pronged strategy: fiscal reform
measuresto redress the growing fiscal gap inthe short term and to beginto build
credibility and confidence inthe public sector, supportedby essentialpolicy reforms and
institutionalchange to complement these actions inthe coming years. The two objectives
are intimately related: without a sea-change inthe perception by society of the
effectiveness and credibility of the public sector, there i s little scope for a significant
turn-around inthe fiscal accounts or for a sustainable reformprogram.

37.     Priority actionsfor fiscal austerity andpublic sector credibility. The
administration has embarked on a series of actions to demonstratevisible results, increase
credibility and create public consensusfor difficult reforms. Inthe fiscal area, the
urgency of the financing situation has meantthat immediate measuresto tackle the
problems of low revenues, tax evasion and high spendinghave been given top priority.
To quickly halt the growth of spending, a number of measures were swiftly taken by the
new administration. Initial steps included the withdrawal of budgetary additions that had
beenpresentedduringthe previous administration, with the exception of those targeting
priority social and agricultural areas. The fiscal effect of this was on the order of US$32
million, about 0.5 percent of GDP.The administration has reiteratedits intention to
maintain public sector nominal wages at their current levels, despite an inflationrate of
14.6percent last year and a more moderaterate of close to 8 percent this year.' Updating
the Central Administration's salaries, for example, by only one-half of last year's
inflation would imply additional spendingof 0.7 percent of GDPjust for the four final
months of 2003. While it i s clear that this politically difficult measurei s neither a
sustainable, nor desirable, one for the mediumterm, it i s crucial inthe immediate future
for curbing the highgrowth of current spendinguntil stable sources of additional revenue
are available.

38.     The administration has also succeededinthe voluntary renegotiation of US$138
million (2.4 percent of GDP) indomestic debt. An agreement has already been signed
with commercial banks and with public sector suppliers, many of them construction
companies. Maturities have been extended, reschedulingpayments through 2008, with
paymentsto be made duringoff-peak periods in order not to pose an excessiveburden on
the Treasury. This i s an indispensable step for moving towards closing the financing gap
loomingfor the end of the year, andfor makingdebt payments more manageableover the
coming years. A Public Debt Restructuring Law (Ley de Reestructuracibnde la Deuda
Ptiblica), includedinthe Acuerdo Politico, provides the legal basis for carrying out the
debt restructuring. An addedbenefit of the debt rescheduling is the issue of new bonds, to
replacethose that have expired, with improveddesign features that support the
development of more active capital markets.




 Annualized, September 2003.


                                              14

39.      Complementing these measures on the spendingfront, the new administration has
movedwith remarkable speed and commitment duringits first two months inoffice to
tackle the pervasive problem of tax evasion andpoor tax revenues(Box 1).This effort i s
directed at bothfilling depletedState coffers as well as reducing corruption andboosting
the credibility of the tax and customs administrations. The results of this effort to date
have beenimpressive: a42 percentincreaseintax revenues duringthe August-October
periodover 2002 levels, evidencethat the crackdown on tax evasion andcorruption i s
bringingresults. Under a conservative estimate, if this growthinrevenuesis maintained
through the end of the year, it would result inadditional income of over US$30 million,
or 0.6 percent of GDP, injust one quarter.

40.      Insum, andas aresult of the measuresdescribedabove, the administration is
likely to generatefiscal resourcesof about 1percent of GDP for the final quarter of
20036,without includingthe effect of maintaining nominal wages constant. This fiscal
effort i s expectedto be sustained, and expanded, in2004 through other important
measures. Among these i s the Budget Law (Presupuesto General de la Nacidn) for next
year, already presentedto Congress. The budget proposesreducing the consolidated
deficit of the Non-Financial Public Sector from 2.1 percent in 2003 to 0.4 percentin
2004, basedon measuresto increase revenues and to control expenditures. A key
component i s the major effort to increasetax revenues.The tax take i s low, atjust 9
percent of GDP in 20027,and the budget proposesto increasetax revenuesby 25 percent
innominalterms. This would bepartially achievedby loweringevasion andincreasing
the excise tax on diesel fuel from 20 to 26 percent.

41.      On the expenditure side, the budget calls for a continued freeze on public sector
salaries, a reduction instaff by about 5,500 positions (representing 30 percent of the
administrative payrollof the central government) through obligatory and early retirement,
and a reduction of spendingon personnel contracts by 30 percent.' As these cuts could
result innegative social effects, the budget calls for the creation of a fundto compensate
staff who are laid off and to assist them inre-inserting themselves into the labor market.
The government has also ensuredthe protection of social spendingandprograms inthe
budget. Fullfunding of debt service obligations i s also included, as i s acommitment to
provide 100percent of localcounterpart requirements for externally financed projects,
the lack of which has been a major cause of low project execution inpast years.

42.      The budget includes some important innovative features. Previous budgets have
beenorganized on a line itemexpenditure basis rather than on a programmatic or results-
linkedbasis with defined spending programs and targets, obfuscating how much i s spent
on what. For the first time, the 2004 budget identifies programs, objectives and their
associatedfinancing. The budget also includes funds to establish a customer service


  Includingboththe withdrawal of budget addition and the increaseinrevenues as aresult of tax
administration measures.
 Revenues rise to about 13 percentof GDP when pensioncontributions to IPS and the Caja Fiscal are
included.
 Many of thesepolicy measurescoincide with recommendationsmade inthe Bank's Policy Notesreport,
which was discussed with the new administration inlate June.


                                                  15

office inthe Ministry of Finance to receive complaints of corruption. The budget law i s
expectedto be approved inlate December.




       Box 1.CombatingTax and CustomsEvasion

    Tackling the pervasiveproblem of tax evasionhas been the one of the linchpins of the governmenteffort
    to reversethe long-standing crisis inpublic finances. The strategy has been to attack the problem from a
    number of angles: awareness-raising campaigns, financial incentives, the elimination of focal points of
    corruption and leakages, as well as audits and direct controls.
              The tax administration has launched a campaign to raise awareness in the commerce, services
    and industry sectors. Hundreds of tax collectors have been visiting businesses to verify tax registration
    and the issuance of receipts. No fines are levied, but business owners are surveyed and made aware of
    their obligations. As of early October, over 7500 businesses had been visited in central Asunci6n, with
    continuedvisits plannedboth inthe city and innearbyareas. Another campaignreachesout to key groups
    in society, through targeted media campaigns, civil society consultations and through the Ministry of
    Finance's own Citizen Participation Unit (Unidad de Participacibn Ciudadana), encouraging people to
    request receiptsfor their purchases, etc.
              To provide incentives for people to come up-to-date on their tax obligations and to encourage
    formalization, the government has also passed a decree issuing a temporary moratorium (untilDecember
    19', 2003) on fines for those contributors who come current on their accounts. Complementing this
    incentive are control measures designedto target highly visible tax evaders. For example, the verification
    of the tax returns of the set of large contributors has been undertakenand a number of irregularities have
    been found. Of these, ten major targets have been selected for in-depth audits which are to be completed
    soon. Within the Ministry of Finance itself, an internal audit is reviewing the granting of tax credits to
    firms, a process that appears to be highly random and inequitable, raising suspicion of corrupt practices.
    A program of merging the various extant tax data bases and modernization of software is also under
    implementation.
              The Customs Administration has also traditionally been a source of corruption, and a number of
    steps have been taken to confront this problem. Decrees have been passed to excise some of the most
    notorious focal points of corruption and bribery, including the removal from Customs areas of all non-
    Customs employees (the so-called Comisidn Interinstitucional Contra el Contrabando y la Evasidn
    Impositiva), and the elimination of ad-hoc check-points set up by various institutions on the major
    transport routes. These measureshave led to a significant increase in the revenuesthat reachthe Treasury.
    Additionally, an entire unit within the Customs Administration of over 200 auditors of large taxpayershas
    been disbandedfollowing persistentcharges of corruption. The Customs Administration has also recently
    launched an anti-smuggling program, consisting of, among other elements, mobile border patrols with
    phone and web links to Aduanas in Asunci6n and with access to online customs data bases of both
    Paraguay and Argentina; the two countries are sharingexport and import data in order to stem the tide of
    illegal trade across their borders. In order to achieve the level of coordination between key agencies in
    the fight againstcontrabandand smuggling, a working group has been established, andhas already started
    operating, between the tax and Customs administrations, the Ministry of Interior and the Attorney
    General's Office (Ministerio Pliblico).



43.      Alongside fiscal measuresto contain spendingand increaserevenues, the
government has also embarked on another central axis of its medium-term strategy noted
above: a program of administrative measures designedto increasetransparency and
reduce waste andcorruption inthe public sector. Many of the on-going actions mentioned
above inthe areas of tax and customs administration and budgeting by programs have, in



                                                      16

addition to their revenue effects, positive impacts on public administration and on civil
society's perception of government.

44.      Two majorefforts havebeenlaunchedto clean up the public sector payroll, an
important source of patronage, corruption andinefficiency. The unrestrained growth of
the public sector since 1990, without a commensurategrowth inpublic services or in
results, has been one of the mainburdens on fiscal accounts. The quality of information
on employment inthe public sector is poor, with little or no differentiation betweencivil
servants and contracted employees or betweenactual and "ghost" workers.' After little
action by previous administrations beyond the pilot stage, the current administration has
now issued a decree and begun a census of civil servants, expectedto be completedby
the endof 2003. It will be important to ensure the maintenanceof the timeliness of the
information on public sector staffing, and create the mechanismsneededto continually
update the public sector data base. The census would be followedby the creation of a
payment system (currently largely cash-based) to individualbank accounts, and of anew
information systemto managethe data base. Inthe following years, the government plans
to use the information to advance inprofessionalizing the civil service, developing salary
scales, and linkjob requirements to qualifications.

45.      The second approachbeing applied by the administration i s to use existing
informationto purgethe payroll of employeesillegally receiving more that one salary.
The first of three stages inthis review of informationhas now beencompleted, covering
the Central Administration, the Central Bank, the IPS, the Municipality of Asuncidn as
well as five autonomous agencies. The review found that there are over 1600persons
receiving double or triple salaries. They are given eight working days to resign from their
"supplementary" jobs, after which administrative procedureswould begin.The second
and third stages of this clean-up of the payroll will cover the departmental governments,
public banks and enterprises, municipalities andteachers, among others.

46.      Procurement. One of the important developments earlier this year was the passage
of the new procurement law, reflecting inputs from the Bank. The regulation of this new
law has already been completed and a Directorate General of Public Procurement
(DGCP) created. The administration i s now takingthe steps required to implementthe
public procurement law, includingthe development of the institutionalandoperational
framework for the DGCP, the development of the required bidding forms and procedures,
training of relevant public sector employees inthe new practices, strengthenedcontract
management, and the design and launching of a web page as the first step of a centralized
procurement information system, where, among other information, a list of public
procurement plans, invitationsto bidand contract awards will be posted. A move towards
electronic procurement is seen inthe future.




 A few ministrieshavelinked acomputerizedpaymentschemeto individualbank account, requiring salary
recipients to prove their employment before accessingthe new accounts; one department found 30 percent
unableto prove valid employment. (Paraguay: A SelectedFiscal Agenda. Mimeo. World Bank, 2002.)


                                                   17

47.     Themedium-term strategy. On the fiscal front, it i s clear that a medium-term
solution to weaknesses inpublic finances includes reform of the tax code, of the costly
public pensions system and of loss-making state-ownedbanks. The government considers
theseto be priority areas andrecently presenteddraft laws to reformthe public sector
pension system andthe tax code to Congress. A law restructuring public banks i s
envisagedin 2004. These laws, along with others to be describedbelow, form the
substance of the government's recently-signedpolitical agreement (Acuerdo Politico)
with Congress.TheAcuerdo Politico, signedby the Presidentand Vice President of the
Republic,the presidents andvice presidentsof bothchambers of Congress, the presidents
of the six major politicalparties, andby the lead representativesof these parties in
Congress, while not guaranteeingunobstructed passage of what i s a large and complex
package of reforms by the legislature, nevertheless illustrates the efforts that are being
taken by the administration to reach as broad a consensus as possible. This i s a laudable
key step inensuring the sustainability of reforms. The content and expectedimpact of
thesereforms i s outlined below.

48.     Administrative Restructuring andFiscal Adiustment Law (Ley de
ReordenamientoAdministrativo y Adecuacibn Fiscal). This bill, recently presentedto
Congress, aims to restructure the public administration to improve revenuecollection,
and includes several wide-ranging tax reformmeasuresdesignedto increaserevenues,
largely through a widening of the tax base. The state i s estimatedto have lost US$l50
million between 1998-2002 (approximately 1.5 percent of GDP) to discretionary tax
exemptions, largely under the 1991investment promotionlaw, no. 60/90 of 1991. The
billwould, amongother measures, reduce the company tax rate from 30 to 10percent,
but widen its base significantly by eliminatingexemptions, includingexisting exemptions
to firms that investinphysical capital, from payingthe full tax rate on their profits for a
periodof 5 years. Other exemptions to be scrappedare those on income from large-scale
agricultural production, and to educational establishmentsbeyondthe basic stage, among
other categories.

49.     The basic VAT rate would be maintained at 10percent, although the draft law
proposes a greater unification of rates, with more items incorporated into the 10 percent
rate, and only a few enjoying a 5 percent VAT rate. The proposal also would allow the
Executive to increase this lower rate, by one percentage point per year, up to a maximum
10percent. Severalcategoriescurrently exempted from paying the VAT wouldbe
incorporated into the tax base, includingservices, the category of small contributors,
unprocessedagricultural products, andthe import and sale of fuel. The draft law also
institutes a 10percent personal income tax for those receiving 10minimumsalaries or
more per month (or about US$15,000 per year), but requires the Executive to gradually
reduce this threshold, during a period not to exceedfive years, to 3 minimummonthly
salaries. An automobile tax (patentefiscal de autovehiculos) i s also envisaged. The
positive revenueimpact of this reform, estimated to reach 1.5 percent of GDP per year as
its various components come into effect over the next two years, has not been includedin
the budgetary estimations, and so should result in a better fiscal positionfor the
administration inthe future. This legal measurewould be complemented by continuing




                                             18

andexpanding the efforts to improvetax administration and to address tax evasion
already begun this year.

50.     Inadministrative measures, the draft bill calls for the planning secretariat
(SecretariaTe'cnicade Planificacibn) to beplacedwithin the Ministry of Finance in
order to better integrate the planning andbudgetary functions, andfor the strengthening
of the taxation sub-secretary of the finance ministry. It also allocates to the taxation sub-
secretary (Subsecretariade Estado de Tributacibn)3.5 percent of the total tax and
customs" revenuescollected, inorder to provide the resourcesto equip the entity with a
modern andeffective structure andresources, bothhuman and physical. Additionally, the
draft law also stipulates that the Executive emit the required regulations, within two
months of the passage of the law, to professionalize the staff of the taxation sub-
secretary, with among other conditions, hiringto be made through a competitive selection
process.

51.     Financial Sector Laws. As mentioned above, the administration has included inits
list of priority actions the reform of public banks. A draft reform bill.(Leyde la Banca
Pu'blica)is expectedto be presentedto Congress within six months. The public banking
bill would restructure andconsolidate state-ownedfinancial institutions inorder to
contain their potential fiscal costs, eliminating duplication of activities, and increasing
transparencyand accountability. The BNF,the largest public development bank, i s at the
center of discussion becauseof its continued losses and declining liquidity. The bill
would introduce a two-tier system, with the first tier retaining a direct link to the public,
focusing on small-scale borrowers who have difficulty obtaining commercial credits. The
secondtier would channel foreign credits for economic development through the private
banking systemto medium and large-scaleborrowers.

52.     Inaddition to the public bank reformbill, the government supported abanking
resolution anddeposit guaranteelaw (Ley de Garantia de 10s Depbsitosy Resolucibnde
Entidades Financieras), which has recently beenapprovedinto law. Its primary aimis to
introduce abank deposit guarantee systemfinanced by the commercial banks. Inthe
event of a bank collapse, the deposit guarantee fund will facilitate purchase of the assets
by solvent banks, ensure that depositors would be compensatedwith an amount
equivalent to up to 75 monthly minimumsalaries, or both. At present, the state i s required
to bailout depositors of collapsedbanks. The fiscal effect of this reform will be a
reduction inthe public sector's contingent liabilities. It is estimated that the fiscal cost of
bank rescuesinParaguay duringthe 1990swas 11percent of GDP.

53.     Reformof the Public Sector PensionFund(Ley de Refomza de la Caja Fiscal).
The growing deficit of the public pension scheme (CajaFiscal) and attendantfinancing
burdenonthe administration have promptedthe government to introduce a draft law to
reform the system. The urgent needfor such a reform is made more evident by the year,
as the CajaFiscal's deficits have grown by over 30 percent per year, innominalterms,
over the past four years.


10The Customs Administration currently reports to the Taxation Sub-secretary,


                                                   19

54.       The draft bill, presentedto Congress on October 15th,2003 aims to gradually
reduce the cash deficit of the public sector's pension scheme, known as the CajaFiscal.
The under-funded Cajais amajor contributor to the fiscal deficit. The maincomponents
of the proposed law include: an increaseincontributions from 14percent to 16percent;
an increaseinthe mandatory retirement age to 62 years for bothmen and women and a
minimumof ten years of contribution; alengthening of the periodover which the salary
base i s calculated, from the latest salary to the average salary receivedover the past ten
years; the lengthening of the periodof contribution before becoming eligible for a
pension, including for an early pension; and lower replacement rates for a given length of
service. The government estimatesthat passage of these measureswould reducethe Caja
Fiscal's cash deficit by 25 percent, about 0.5 percent of GDP.

55.       The draft reformtackles many politically difficult issues: increasing contributions,
significantly raisingthe retirement age, requiring a longer periodof contribution for
lower benefits, and reducing the salary base upon which the pension i s calculated. There
i s still a ways to go, however. Benefits would remain quite generous by international
standards, andparticularly so for the Armed Forces andthe Police. The reformis partial
inthat itdoesnot address similar financing issuesplaguing many of the other pension
schemes, and does not make significant inroads into the, admittedly long-term, goal of
harmonizing Paraguay's disparate pension plans. The administration's proposal goes a
significant way towards filling the CajaFiscal's deficit, however, andindoing so should
help inreachingthe key mediumterm challenge of increasedpensioncoveragefor
Paraguay's labor force andelderly.

56.       The administration has therefore requestedassistancefrom the Bank, within the
context of the new CAS, for a more comprehensive reform to its pension system. A
substantial reform would imply fundamental changes, such as the introduction of a non-
contributory and targetedold-age pension for the poor elderly, introduction of portability
of benefits, harmonization of the currently fragmented system, and a move to a systemof
defined contributions and away from defined benefits, as well as a new legal framework
to regulate pension investments. This longer term reformwould take place through an
envisaged adjustment operation and technical assistanceinthe future. Inthe meantime,
the current CajaFiscal bill would address the largest drain on the government's fiscal
accounts: the cash deficit of the Cajacontributes about two-thirds of the government's
total deficit.

57.       Complementing measureson the policy reformfront are concrete steps being
taken to reduce the highlevels of corruption and abuse of the Caja Fiscal. A census of
contributors and beneficiaries of the pension scheme is in the bidding stage. The
objective i s to update and computerize the data base, and to purgethe Caja's rolls of
phantombeneficiaries andof those ineligible to receive pensions. One area where the
administration hopes to make important savings is inthe non-contributory part of the
Cajathat largely benefits Chaco war veterans (andveterans' survivors). The large
number of beneficiaries, veterans of a war that ended68 years ago, would seemto
indicate the existence of fraud at a large scale. This part of the CajaFiscal i s responsible
for fully half of the pension scheme's cash deficit.



                                                20

58.     The administration alsoplans to initiate, inthe coming year, an upgradingand
modernization of the management of the Caja Fiscal, which i s performed directly by the
Ministry of Finance. The existing administrative systemi s inadequate, collection
processesare bureaucratic and subject to low compliance, benefit requests are handled
without standardprocesses, data bases are of poor quality and are out-of-date, and delays
inpayment are unreasonable.A reorganization of the unitmanaging the pension scheme
would be undertakento addressthese shortcomings, includingprovisions for tighter audit
controls.

59.     The Customs Code (Ley de Reforma del CbdigoAduanero). With the new
emphasis on an effective and transparent public administration and the centrality of
exports to the re-initiationof economic growth, a reform of the Customs Code has
becomea priority for the administration. The new customs code aims to reformthe 1985
code, unifying the Customs Administration under a single body. Customs legislation
would becomecompatible with the recently-introduced information system for tracking
imports, the Sistemade Ordenamiento Fiscal ZmpositivoAduanero (Sofia). The Code
would grant budgetary autonomy to the Customs Administration, regulate and
professionalize customs personnel in an effort to tackle widespread corruption, and would
be accompaniedby a manual of responsibilities andprocedures (Manual de Funciones y
Procedimientos).

60.      The administration is committed, as can benotedfrom the measuresbeing taken
incustoms control, to strengthening its fight againstsmuggling andthe trade inpirated
goods. Inarelated measure, the government will also sendto Congress a revised and
fortified law on money laundering. Although financial institutions now regularly report
suspicious transactions, the law is not beingrigorously enforced. The proposed new law
would clarify the delegation of responsibilities within the Executive Branchinorder to
facilitate the flow of information and allow the prosecution of money laundering as an
autonomouscrime, ensuring a larger number of prosecutions.

61.      Also inthe area of public administration, the Ministry of Finance has been
selectedas apilot institution inthe public sector, with a program to transform it into a
"ministry of excellence" via measures such as the development of an internal audit
function that would also focus on auditing tax collections andthe customs administration;
a clearer definition of functions, organization andresourceneeds of the Ministry's
various departments; and the creation of a unit for handling citizen complaints. The
government has requestedBank assistanceinthis effort, and apublic administration
project and technical assistance are now intheir initial identificationstages. The objective
would be to support institutionalreforminthe Ministry through improving internal
systems, raising the level of human resource endowments, identifyingnecessarylegal
changes, and encouraging coordination across Ministry offices and with other
government entities. Inthe meantime, the Ministry has beguna campaign to publicizeits
performance results (rendicibnde cuentas) to society, with its managementindicators,
resource-saving initiatives, etc.. This rendicibn de cuentas, andthe results of the longer-




                                             21

term pilot to turn the Ministry into an institutionof excellence within the Paraguayan
public sector, will bothbe generalized to other Ministries.


   V. The ProposedLoan

62.    The proposedLoan, by providingearly support to the administration's economic
and institutionalmeasures, would act as a bridge to help the government reach a position
fromwhich it canconcentrateon amediumterm program for areturnto growth and
improvedsocial conditions, having set the stage for a more sustainable fiscal position
through the measuresinits reformpackage.The program supportedby the operation
contains a substantive set of actions, including: the presentation to Congress of a strong
budget for 2004, of an important tax reform law that broadensthe tax base andreduces
exemptions, and of a pension reform to address the large fiscal burdenrepresentedby
public pensions; the approval of a key law inthe financial sector; the adoption of
procurement and financial management action plans; as well as a number of significant
actions to strengthenpublic administration and management.These measuresare outlined
ingreaterdetail below.

       Fiscal Stabilization (See Annex I: of Policy Actions, Section I).
                                            Matrix                               The
       operation supports the actions taken by the government to contain expenditures
       duringthe final quarter of 2003 via, amongother measures,a freeze onpublic
       sector wages, the withdrawal of budgetary additions presentedto Congressby the
       previous administration, and the presentation to Congress of a budget for 2004
       that is consistent with the narrowing of the fiscal deficit andthe attainment of a
       primary surplus. These are initial measures that are important inthe near term for
       stabilizing the fiscal accounts as a first step towards medium-term fiscal
       sustainability. At the same time, steps will be taken to ensure that expenditure
       cuts do not unduly impact social spending, and to institute compensatory
       measuresfor public sector staff who are laid off.

       TaxPolicy (See Annex I: of Policy Actions, Section 11).The operation
                                   Matrix
       also supports the presentation to Congress of the government's reform of the tax
       code, through measuresthat would widen the tax base andreduce exemptions.
       Thisreformpresentsamajoreffort to bringthe fiscal accounts to a sustainable
       medium-term path. Inaddition, its design would increasethe equitability of the
       code by removingexemptions and reducing the dispersion of rates.

       Public Administration andAnti-Corruption (See Annex I: of Policy
                                                                    Matrix
       Actions, Section 111).The government is also implementinga number of measures
       inthe areas of public administration andanti-corruption which the operation
       backs. These include measuresto: increase transparency andfight corruption,
       such as the regulation and implementation of a new public procurement law and
       the implementation of a financial management action plan composed of concrete
       measuresto enhancetransparency and to strengthenindependent reviews and
       audits. Measures to promote greater efficiency and effectiveness, includingthe


                                              22

        shift to anational budgetorganized alongprograms, andthepresentationto
        Congress of anew Customs Code also form an integral part of the matrix of
        policy actions. By promoting greater transparency, accountability, and
        effectiveness of the public sector, these measureswould create a climate of
        improvedgovernance and greater public sector credibility, essentialto the
        effective functioning of the Stateandto the performance of its regulatory and
        other functions in support of economic reactivation and growth.

        Financial Sector (See Annex I: of Policy Actions, Section IV). Actions in
                                          Matrix
        the financial sector that are supportedby the operation are the approval of the law
        creating the Deposit Guarantee andBank ResolutionFund, aimed at increasing
        the use of market-orientedrisk-sharing methods while reducing the fiscal cost to
        the State inthe event of turbulence or crisis inthe sector. This important reform is
        a significant step in strengthening the Paraguayanfinancial system and in
        correcting some of its structural weaknesses, preparing the financial systemto
        play its key role inresourceallocation, private sector development, and a returnto
        higher growth.

        Public Sector Pensions (See Annex I: of Policy Actions, Section V). The
                                                Matrix
        proposed ERLsupports the presentation to Congress of a reformto Paraguay's
        Caja Fiscal, to reduceits cash deficit andto move towards greater harmonization
        of its parameters andbenefits with those of other existing pension funds. In
        strengthening the finances of the public sector pension scheme, the main culprit in
        the public sector's growing deficits, the reform would pave the way for further
        substantial reforms to the pension systemas a whole, with potentially important
        impacts on poverty reduction and on equity.

63.     Monitoring and Evaluation. Progress on the operation's strong set of actions,
outlined above, would be evaluatedby ascertaining advances made inmeetingthe
implementation benchmarks outlined inthe Matrix of Policy Actions. Two supervision
missions, inMarchand May 2004, would include a review of the various reforms as they
are approved by Congress to ascertain that their content substantially meets the initially
outlined objectives. The application of public sector reform measureswould be reviewed
for satisfactory progress, and the implementation of the financial managementand
procurement action plans would also be evaluated, among other conditions.

64.     Links with the Bank's Country AssistanceStrategy. This operation is being
presentedconcurrently with a new Country Assistance Strategy. As the first operation in
the new Strategy, the proposedLoan will set the stage for renewed Bank involvement in
Paraguay. The ERLforms an integral part of the Bank's strategy over the coming years,
through the reforms it supports inthe areas of taxes, pension, and improvedgovernance.
The Loanwill help to establish the conditions neededto enable the government to regain
fiscal sustainability and financial sector stability inthe medium-term, both of which
constitute the first pillar of the CAS strategy.




                                              23

65.      Links to Other Bank Operations.As part of the new CAS' base-case scenario, the
proposedLoan would be followed by two operationsthat strengthen and deepen reforms,
andtheir implementation, inthe financial sector.The Bank preparedaFinancial Sector
Assessment in 2002 and has been very closely involvedwith the government in
discussionsof the sector, includingfinancial legislation. Implementingthe reforms
neededto enable this sector to play its key role inthe economy is a necessary condition
for moving the Paraguay economy towards higherrates of growth. It is also essentialto
the fiscal health of the public sector. The Bank and the government have thus agreedto
complete the preparation of a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) which would
support key reforms inthe financial sector, includinganew framework for banking
legislation, supervision andresolution of distressedbanks, as well as a reformprogramto
rationalize and downsize the state owned banking sector. Institutionalobjectives are the
strengthening of the capabilities and financial and supervisory technology of the central
bank andthe superintendency of banks to maintain the fitness of the financial systemand
to resolve insolvencies at minimumcost. Another objective i s the reduction inthe
involvement of the state inthe financial system

66.      Inconjunction, aTechnical Assistance (TA) operation is also underpreparation to
support the financial sector reformprogram. The TA loan would strengthenthe
institutional capacity of the Superintendencyof Banks by incorporating arisk-based
supervisory approach. Both operations are in an advancedstage of preparation and,
subject to passingof key legislation, would be ready for possible Boardpresentation in
the fourth quarter of FY04. The administration is committed to completing the
preparation of these loans and of acompanion operation from the IDBto support public
bank reform. Inthis context, there has beenclose coordination with the IMFandthe TDB
on all aspects of financial sector reform.

    A. FiduciaryManagement

67.      Inpreparationfor the FSALin2002, afinancial management assessment was
carried out which has now beenfused with an on-goingjoint IDB and World Bank
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). The report finds that Paraguay
has made great strides to improve its financial management since 1996 and new systems
are still beingdeveloped. Public sector budgetingand accounting has beentransformed,
an integratedfinancial management system (SIAF) has now been implemented and i s
supportedby new financial managementlegislation. A national integrity plan was
developed and aNational Council of Integrity was establishedto pursue the objectives of
the plan. The IDBhas been supporting the government by means of multiple and
successivetechnical cooperation operations. The execution of the most recent of these
beganduring2001 with the objective of strengthening the government's financial
managementin all the SIAF systems."

68.     Paraguay's financial accountability arrangements, however, have failed to support
publicexpenditure outcomes inthat, on the one hand, fiscal discipline has been
underminedby unrealistic budgets, unrecorded trade payables, andlimited controlover

 (Loan 1253/OC-PRfor US$6.0 million, subprogram3).


                                             24

decentralized entities and, on the other hand, the heavy investment incentralized
spending controls does not provide the incentives to public managers to improve
operational efficiency. Furthermore, the transparency inthe use of public funds i s
affected by vaguenessof the accounting standardsfollowed ingovernment reporting and
the deficiencies inexternal audit to support the opinions rendered.

69.     The conclusion of the risk assessment is that the financial managementrisk i s
high and action needs to be taken inthe areas of internal control, external audit and
control over the decentralized agenciesinaddition to stricter application of the financial
management law and support for this law interms of legislation inethics for public
servants and anti-corruption initiatives.

70.     Inresponse,the government hasintroducedthe regulationfor the procurement
law and agreedon strategies to improve financial management. Inparticular, the
government has adoptedkey componentsof aFinancialManagement Action Planintwo
crucial areas, namely accounting andbudget systems, whose implementation would
constitute a major advanceinaddressingmany of the fundamental concerns noted above.
The phasedstrengthening of the Auditor General's Office, with a commitment to produce
external reviews of the Treasury Department's financial statements that are up to
international standards of auditing, as well as arrangements for peer reviews of the work
of the Auditor General's Office, have also been agreedupon.

71.     Flow of Funds andAudit Arrangements. Disbursement arrangementswill follow
the simplifiedproceduresfor adjustment lending approved by the Boardon February 1,
1996. Once the Bank formally notifies the borrower that the loan i s available for
withdrawal, the borrower may submit a withdrawal application so that the proceeds are
depositedby the Bank into an account (Deposit Account) of the Republic of Paraguay,
established at the Central Bank of Paraguayfor the borrower's use. Although the Bank
will not routinelyrequire an audit of the Deposit Account, it reservesthe right to do so,
andby auditors acceptable to the Bank.

    B. Environmental Aspects

72.     As a structural adjustment program, the environmental provisions of OD8.60
apply to this operation.


    C. Risks

73.     Political Risk. There are important risks to the Loan andto the government
program it supports. Inaddition to the financial managementrisks outlined above, a key
riskis the lackof atrack recordinpassingandimplementing high-qualityreforms. This
riskis relatedto Paraguay's fragmented politicalstructure andthe consequentdifficulties
these pose during the legislative approval process. The government's reform strategy i s a
very ambitious one, with six major reforms to be approved by Congress within six
months. This pressure on Congress to approve anumber of significant laws i s



                                             25

compounded by the administration's current efforts to overhaul the Supreme Court, a
strategy which risks shifting emphasis from economic reforms to the equally politicized
judicial reform.

74.     As recently as last year, the previous government failed to secure a reform
packagethat was to have ensuredmultilateralsupport: Congress suspendedthe
privatization program that it hadpreviously approved. This points to the risk that
legislation couldbe reversed. The former administration was then unable to secure the
passage the fiscal andfinancial sector reforms required for Bank, IMFand IDB support.

75.     Many of the reforms supportedby the proposedLoancan be expectedto result in
a politically chargedprocessesgenerating lobbying opposition from stakeholders. The
Paraguayancongress has traditionally been an activist andpolitically galvanized body
which resists approving reforms proposed by the executive branch if these threaten
political interests of important constituencies. The executive will need to negotiate with
the three main opposition parties in order to builda legislative majority, although
significant opposition may also come from vested interestsrepresentedwithin the
President's Colorado Party. These range from businessmeninvolvedinthe contraband
trade to the large mass of public employees.Public sector teachers made their opposition
to the public pension reformknown, and some businessmenhave beencritical of the loss
of their exemptions as part of the proposednew tax law. The ambitious program of fiscal
and state reform, inwhich efforts to tackle corruption and increaseefficiency inthe
public sector figure prominentlyalso risks ignitingresistanceand unrest, leading to
wavering commitment by the President and the cabinet and a retreat from or dilute of the
reform agenda. Inthe event that the administration succeeds ingarnering sufficient
support to ensure legislative approval, there i s also the risk,that the quality of the
approved reforms will not be sufficient to ensure the neededfiscal stabilization or
medium-term goals of increasedefficiency and transparency.

76.     An important general source of risk to the Bank's program inParaguay-though
not specific to this operationper se -is that relatedto social unrestdue to inequality,
agrarian poverty, and insecurity of tenure for indigenous groups. The absence of a
dialogue and actions on these issues inParaguaycouldpotentially lead to a large social
movement, with the attendant instability,posing a large general risk to the program as a
whole.

77.     Mitigating these risks to some extent are the new administration's concerted
efforts to reach a wide-ranging political consensusfor its reformprogram, and its clear
emphasis on and prioritization of social programs andrural development. A formal
political agreement has been signed by key representativesof the executive and
legislative branches, including agreement on the basic contents of the legislationto be
presentedto Congress. The administration has also reacheda consensuswith the
teachers' union as well as with the major private sector groups to gain support for
legislative approval of the pension and tax reforms, respectively. Moreover, the impact of
the government's reform packagehas been realistically evaluatedinterms of its fiscal




                                             26

contribution over time, and as such its designincludes some space to accommodate a
dilution of laws as they pass the legislature.

78.     There are other grounds for optimism that governance will improve. President
Duarte Frutos i s the first legitimately electedpresident inover four years. The lack of a
popularmandateof previous presidentshadunderminedtheir effectiveness. The new
president also has greater control over his own party than his immediate predecessors,
and he does not face major factional opposition within hisColorado Party. Moreover, the
various politicalparties are broadly agreedon the type of measuresthat needto be taken
to remedy long-term weakness inpublic finances andreturn the stagnanteconomy to
growth. The President, having pledgedto tackle theseissues andreduce corruption, will
benefit from some initial goodwill.

79.     ZmplementationRisk. There are also significant risks to the continued
implementation of the medium-term program as a result of weak capacity of the public
sector. The dependence of a significant portion of the government's general strategy on
administrative measures also poses risks. Some of the administrative componentsinthe
reform plan, such as expenditure control measures, may yield limitedresults, as previous
administrations have broken several self-imposed rules inthe past, for example by
proposing a non-balanced budget for 2003 and using royalties from Itaip6 and Yacyreti
to finance current spending. Additionally, the resources, bothinfinancial andinstitutional
terms, neededto implement the reformpackageare scarce and would need to be
strengthened.The administration's understanding and demonstratedwillingness to act on
public strengthening and reformi s a mitigatingfactor, as i s the assistanceit i s seeking,
from the Bank, the IDB, and others for advice, lendingand technical assistanceinthis
area.

80.     Macroeconomic RisW Extemal Shocks.Continued anemic growth couldpose a
threat to the viability of implementing the government strategy. Given the higher tax
revenuesenvisaged, continued low growth could make it difficult to ensure that the
increase intax intake observedin the past few months i s sustained, or to implement a
generalization of the VAT, institutea personalincome tax, carry out significant personnel
reductions inthe public sector, or allow the financial systemto generate sufficient
incremental returns to capitalize itself adequately. Nevertheless,improving regional
conditions, expectedhigher growth rates inBrazil, the rise inprices of Paraguay's
commodity exports and expectations of a decline inoil prices all point to improved
growth prospects for the country. The success of the government's domestic debt
renegotiations, combined with the attainment of an IMFprogram, andfresh financing
from multilaterals, all support an improvement in private sector sentiment inParaguay,
andimprove the scenario for 2004. Infact, the best strategy for managing such risks is for
Paraguay to regain a strong fiscal position to helpit weather shocks, and to strengthenthe
financial system to withstand a possible further deterioration inthe quality of bank
portfolios. The support providedby the proposed operation thus should be seen as akey
risk-management measure against the impact of future regional volatility on Paraguay.




                                               27

81.     Risks to the Bank. Disbursementsto Paraguay were suspendedfor three months in
early 2003. This was due to the inabilityof the previous government to meet its payments
schedule to its creditors across the board. The current administration has firmly statedits
commitment to make paymentsina timely fashion. It should be noted as well that the
Bank's exposureinParaguayi s low. The Bank's share of public debt service, at about 17
percent of the total, i s below the threshold, as i s debt service to the Bank as a proportion
of exports (on the order of 2 percent). Net lendingby the Bank to Paraguay was negative
in2002, andwouldbe significantly negative in2003 without the proposedLoan(Table
8). The new CAS discusses credit-worthiness issues and sets the Bank's strategyfor re-
engagement with Paraguay, and inthe absence of atrack record, includes triggers, in line
with country performance, for movingtowards a higher (or lower) volume of lending.

  Table 8. IBRDDDA LoanTransactions(calendar year)

                1995       1996      1997     1998    1999     2000     2001    2002     2003e
Disbursements 25.7         27.5      41.2     37.7    42.1     46.6     26.8     13.5    16.0
Repayments      42.6       35.2      27.5     24.6    24.6     20.2      15.3    16.8    28.0
Net Lending     -16.9      -7.7      13.8     13.1    17.5     26.4      11.5   -3.3     -12.0
* Estimate,excluding disbursement of the proposed Loan
Source: The World Bank and staff estimates




                                                  28

     a &
   d   O Q
       > >
      0 0




29

30

  .*
  $0
  E
  Y


   e,
   X
   e,




31

32

33

s




     34

35

36

37

Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy (Spanish)




              SE&OR
              JAMITSD. WOLFENSOBEI,PRBSIDENTE
              BANCO1NTERNACrONALDERE4X3NSSTRUCCIdNY FOMENT0(BERE,
              WASHINGTON, D.C. USA  -

                                    Estacar& detalla la infomraci6nb b i i de la econom'a dei pals, a d coma
              el marc0 de referencia dentro del cual se iaserta el program de recuperacidn econbmica y
              reformade la Administraci6n M b h . El objetivo de la "aes solicitlrr el apoyo creditjcio
              del Banco MuMia1para garantizarladisponibilkladde rwutsos finencierodl complementarirwry
              de mm plazo, de manera a mxener las medEdas de acci6n en cum, tendimtes a hacer
              efdvos 108 ajustes planeados. AI m i m Wpo, la ayuda solicitada F a c i l M ai Estado
              paragaayo la implementaci6nde reformasesuu"les           a partitdel afio 2061que apunten a un
              rmuaejo racionaly eiiciente de ias finanzls pbblicgs, a fa mtivacibn ecmbmica,a1combace. a
              lapobaza,y a laimplementacibnde d e sde prot.cci6n social.
              A. Evoluei6nde la ecollomiaparrmgunya.

              Crisis&IM&Io        de h r r o f l o

                                    Una recesi6n agW y un estPncsmieata prolongado han sido las
              caracterkticas de la economfa nacioaal de Ios filtimos a?Loy, con ws co~uentesefecms
              negpitivos sobre el bicnestarde la pobiacibn. La tasa de crecimientode la produ~ci6n biews
                                                                                                   de
              y strvicim de ImWnos vein@aiiosha sido inferior a la taw. de crecimiento demagdh. En
              los iltimas cinca arkw, el crecimiento promedio del product0 intemo bmto anual ha sido
              oegativa.
                                     h t a situackjri se agrava si te la e d n a desde la perapwtiva de La
              competitividad y el bienestar y se compara el Paraguay con toS pikes del Mercoaur. E
              paragunytime e1menor ingreso per &pita y la tasade crecitnknto CCOfllZmiCotnks baja de esta
              regibn, asi coma tambih la mnar cobertura de 10s m"ios &iws y el m8s bajo nivel de
              educacihde su fueuena labod.

                                     Esta situacidn econ6mica retkja, en pa-,       una vulnerabilidad a 10s
              vaivenes ex&"         de la regi6n y a h s fluctuacioruts del mercado intemacional: y,
              principalmeate, la crisis del modelo de desarrollo econbmico basado en la triangulacih
              comercial  - reexportack6nlegale     iiegal de bhes adquiridas de fuera del Mereosur a pabs
              vecmoa   - la baja productividad agricola, y la cscasa diversi'fcaci6n de las exportaciones
              geminasdel pais. A esra situaeih, se sum 1                       bna del Estado F'araguayo y la
              e a m gokmabiiidadobservadaea Iosulitrt




                                                  38

-&-                                                -2-

        a d -




                           En ehto, el mode10 de desmollo del Faraguay de tas flthw aiiosS,
    basadoen la produccibny exportacibo depocosproductosprjmariosdewas0 valor agregadoy
     el comcrcio de triangulacibn, ha entrado en crisis creando metas c o w m m i ~negativas
     s d m las wndiciones de vida be la poblacibn. En p r b x lugar, se ha chewado una
     dismiwcibndratdttica del culsivo del algodh, debid0 a la bqja de 10s precios interrracioaales y
     a1deshwntivocrediticiode atecufitivo que ha rtfectadaa Is pequtiiaproduccidtlagricola. En
                                            -
     segundo lugar, el comedo de thngulacih(reeXpartaci6n) gue en 1995 repmentabaUM cifra
     cuatro veces superior a las expartaciones gempllnasdd pais, el mismo se habh reducido en un
    75 par cientopara firaes del 2002, debid0en parte a la devaiuacibn de la h       a brasileils y a
     un mayor control de ate trAfico por parte del Brasil, a d d s del procesode cmvergacia del
     arancelemmo m a n en el Mercosur.
                           La rmi6nde 10s liltimos cinco ah., y partkutarmentela signifizdivacaMa
     de la actividad econ61uicaen el 2002, son reflejosde la crisiswtructural, ElPIB kuvo una caida del
     2,3 por ciento, lo que signifid una redumidnen la disponibiiidad de bimes y ~rvkiospara la
     poblacidn y un menor ingreso y p w m de aabajo. LA inflaci6n anual fue del 14.6 por ciento,
     originada por la restricci6n de la ohria de bienes y servicios, y e s t i a d a a d e d por UM
     pronunciarkdepreciaci6ndel Guaranirespectoa ia mnedanorteamerica~.

                           Enel sector mowtario,10s sgregados mmtraronuna gtan concwvacibn
     de 10s depcisitos en maneda extrmjera, y una reducciandel credit0 al sectot ptivado. Esto
     Pltimo se ha visto exacerbado por un aumento del indice de "xidad bamxria, del 12 por
     ciento en 1W8 ai 22 por ciento en 2003, y par b s ektos de la crisis banariasdel iiltimoallo,
     amqw contmrrestadasenpartepor acciones inmedia& adoptadasporlatzam"ral.
                           Encumto a lacmnmtiscales cfel aft02002,1w ingresos aumentaroncl
     2,s por cimto y 10s gastos crecieronen 15,9 por ciento, loque explica la disparada del &fieit
     fiscal. que a finales de diciembrede 2002 represent6 un 3.5 por ciento de3 PIB. La rigid#%de
     bgartoscorrientesy 10sprobfemsestrucruralesdeldgimendejubilacionesy penaionesdel
     m o r pdbblicoconstjtuyenlas priwipalescausilsdelaumentode dicho&%it, ade&           del mnor
     flujo de Royalties y Compenwiaacsproven!nientes de la m a d B h " d I*, y de IQS
     menom ingrescw tributaries por efwtosde la caMa del PIB.
                           Enel context0 iotemcional, hcrisis queatravesaron 10s pfsesvecinos y
     principales socios comerciales de la regibn, en especial la Argentina, af&        mriamnte a1
     coma40 de bienes reflejadopor lacreciente dismhucibnen la demands de aIgf&n, semiila de
     soja, malz,maderay came, entre otros.                d@%?Y--

                            Las Resewas latemacio                          una mrcada tendencia a
     la baja totalido a diciembre del 2002, US$                             ia de las difiwltadesdel
     mbgmotanto en et &reafiscalmmo fmncie
                                                                                                  'I!




                                                39

                                               -3-




Pobrezne inseguridtid

                       La ausencia de crecimientoe d m i c o real y el mal funciomiento del
Estado han significsdoun alto ccwto para la sociadad paraguaya. La pobnza y la inseguridad
han crecido signifkativamente. dcgradando las condiciolrcs de vida de 10s habitantes y
amenazando lavigencia de lademoeracia.Aldedor de 34 por ciemode la poblani6nvive en la
pobreza y 17 por ciento en la extrema pobreza, existie&
proporcioneshan awneatado en 10s lrltimos dos &os. La pobma esfue*oes con mas fucrza en
                                                                           indicios que ems
                                                                    sentida
el area rural.

                       En la oducacicin, si bien ha disminuidoel analfabetisrnay aumentado la
matriculaemlac, perduranimportantesMizitsenlacobertura, y la urlidadde la "aes una
asignaturapendmte, que requiere mejoras sustantivas de modo a fonalecer el capital fiumano
delpals.
                       Aslmismo, un importante estrato de la poblacih no tiem acccso a 10s
serviciaa de dud. Se e&na que Ccma del 30 por cimto de la poblacitb r halla sin acceso a
10sservkiw de dud, que ensu mayorparteconstitaye la fmja de 10spobres.
                       El dgimen vigente de segurldad social, financiado ii"entalmente a
travh del sistpma $e tepartolicac una~obtmrrade no mhs del 15 por cientodel wtor format
urbitno, con maS de diez esquemasdiferentes,administradospor unasseisentidades.Asimisma.
se observan r t i a s falmks en la admhistracih de 1os programas y de lob recursos, que
reduoenla viabilidaddel siskma, asi   u)rw  laequidady lamovkWad laboral& 10s cotltsnres.
                       Los dRfgitS en viviendm, agua y saneamleuto basic0 son considerable$,
Con hems impactosen la calidadde vida de la poblacibn. por el hacidento, el coosumo&
egua no potabley lacontgminaci4nde Ios suelos, dimcntosy c11rsosde agua.
                       til desentpleo y el subempleo han crecido significativamente en 10s
dltimos &os, afectando principalmeme a la pblaci6n joven. El deterioro del ingreso y las
condicionesde empleohangenetdo cambios en la estrategiade vkia de las familiasurbanasy
rurales.

                       Bn sintesis, la pobreza y la indigenciae&   destniyendo aceleradamnte
kos activos miales del pals y ponen en riesgo la calidad de h democracia. Mitigar
efectivauuntela pobrczay combatirla iii                                     grandcsdesafiorno
rcsueltosde la transicidndemoccWx.


                                                                                         It1




                                 40

   II

I-Eiesgosdo InestabilidadEconbmiix

                       A d e d de 10s problems estruc&rales seAatados, recientemente ban
surgido selIales de inestabilidodmacmecanbmica,Espreocupanleel deterimode 10s indicadores
econ6"ios, que por dkadas se hanmantenidoconmiados. Se asiste a una inembilklad en ef.
fndice de inflaci6n que bist6ricamcnte se habia mantenido en un digito (se eIev6 al 14.6 por
ciento en el ZW),aunincrementodel &fxit firccat, a niveles no acostumbrados en el pais(de
0.3 por cienb del PLBen 1995 a 3.3 por ciento del PIBenel 2002). Esaslmismo preocupante
la caida de las recaudaciones, el inemmnto de las tasas de ink& efectiva (58 por ciento en
moneda locat, en abril del 2@03 y 10 por ciento en US$), el a u m b de la morosidad, la
incstabilidadcambiariay ladolarizaci6nde lasdepbsitosy croditosbudasde la Transition.


                       La estrucmra y la gesti6n de la Administracibn Mblica tienen severaa
limitaciones. tos objetivos y las metas de 10s programs no son claros y operan en
mmpartimjentas cstancos. La asignscl6n de 10s recursm carece de visihn de mediino y largo
plazo. No existe una polXia de "0sbur".              Las manismas de controison &biles. La
gestibny sus resultadosno son satififactorias. Y la sociedadcivil no dene 10s h m e n t o s para
influir sobre las politiCas pirbIicas y evaluar sus resuItados. La modemizaeifin de la
Adminiswaci6nRiblicaes una deudapendiente.
                       Pocas reformas b9n llegado a metas satiafslctoriss tales CMRD la reforma
ectucativa, la ley de adminisrraci6nfmancieta del &tad0 y la ley de wntratacionesplblis. La
mayoria de las intcntos M) generaron 10s n ~ ~ l t a d oerrperedw (ley de entidadesbncariss, k y
                                                         s
de mercado de valms, reforma instihlcional de varios ministerios], y otras han fracasado,
sumidas en BCMSdecorrupcih@rivatizaciones).
                       La coopcraci6n externa es muy nwesaria porque el ahono interno es
jnsuficiente. Ladebilidad delsistema de intermediicibn fulanciera, y la ausencia de unmrc&
de vdores no h a m posibie elevar los niveb acnraksdeahorro internode1pais.

                       UM politica rqmrmble, de la actual conduccibn econbmica, es no
endeudw al pais mas all6 de sus posibilidadesde pagoy que 10sptCstamosobtenidosse orienten
a 10s proyectos estrategicos. El Paraguay simpre ha mantddo una politimde endeudamh"
moderado. Sin embargo, en tos dltimos aiios, la poiitica PQbliCa de endeudamiento se ha
apartado un tanto de esta ttndencia en un momento de recesi6n econbmica y hajjas
recaudacioms.Elcrecientedeficit Fialde losSitimosaltos, cam0 lasbmscasdevaluacionesde
la moneda naciowi handismhii la c                                              la deuda, del pa&,
llegandoa representareSte saMo un42 p

                                                                                             IJl.




                                   41

                      Otra &uda de la transicibn es la postergaci6nde la refarma de Xa banca
pabiica, de la seguridgd social, phbficay privada, y de las eqresas pftblicas. Se necegita
mejorar la cobettura de creditospara la produocitrn y reducir el cost0 del bra,el accew a la
segurldadmial y mjorar la calidady coberturade 10saervkiosp4blicw.

                      Unapr#cupac$m crecientedelaciwfadaniaes tambi el ~ ~ ~ o ~ ~ j e n ~ o
de la Justicia. Si bieo se han produciaa cambias en e m imtitucioncs,&IS       de form que. de
fa& en mwhm c~sos,sus rtsultados distande b que la gente espera para laconstwcibnde
la democracia, la m p m i 6 n econbmica y el logrode lajusricia social.

B. VWa, objtrtlvasy hearnientosestrat@w del programade gobierno2003-2008.

                      La situwi6ndcsctiptapitc&"nte          ametita una pmiuwla revisi6ndel
modelo & desarrollo de 10s dltimos afios y requiem fa traasfonnacidn de Ia edrucbura
productiva y del mam instiarcionaldel E&&&.      Esca nansfor~i(m,a        8u vez, supone corm
punto de partida una nueva visin integral de Jas diferentes dimensiones del proceso de
delsarrollo y cow misibn impulmr un nuevo d e L o de saciedad con crecimienm E C O ~ C O
sustentable, con respansabilidadf i d socialy medioambintal.
                                       I


                      Akamr este modelo imptica establacer reglas clams, equitltivas y
transparentes, superar fos Connictos internos derlvados de la prec-ncia             de interems
sectoriales, combatit la corrupciSn, garanUr la seguridadjuridics y fortalecer la sepridad
interm. y recuperar la credibiiidady la c o n f ihacia la naci6n y su fum. Impli, en
tin, m s t r u i r el Estado coma aparato jurfdlco, administrative, y politico que garantice la
existencia realde UII estado de demho y contrilrr'esttlas tendenciascenttffugar de taS bolscmnes
de privilegioe informalidad,
                      En e& confexu), el Program de Gobierno 2003-2008 piantea cuatro
objetivosestr&dgbs
Recuperncsdnde la coaAatrzeen las instkucioaesdd -do           y eo SUS reprcseetantes
                      Con el fin de Iograr h recuperacik de la confianza en las InstitUciOnes
del-do      y en sus representantes se planteaeomoprioridadla formalizacidn de laeconomia, la
tucha contra la cormpcibn y la incficieNia, la reforma y modemizd6nde la AdministrYlciSn
pclblicaque apuntaa lacreaci6nde unnuevo Esfado, eftciente y neutralensus pBicas, abhrto
a la sociedad y comprometido en la Wsqueda de mejorar fa Catidad de vida del pueblo
paraguayo. Un Estado capz de recuperar la 00                                            avis del
cumplimiento de la Iey sin distkciones, de la                                           , de 10s
resultados visibles de la gestibn, de programas                                f ivns COnCreeQSy
de uncontrolque existe porque10s resultadossonprcmi;
                                                                                           .ill




                                          42

Promocidn de la prticipadbn activa de la ciudadanla pwa la wnstrucclirn de las
institucionesde la demoeracia

                        Para ia promocibn de la participacibn activa de 'la ciudadanh en h
formulaci6n de las politicas y el control de la gesti6n pliblica a imphienman acciones y
polftiticss abierfas y transparenws con pawipacibn de Ids desthrios de dichas poliiicas.
Algunas de estas acciones ya se encuentran implementadas comacuerdoscon organizaciones
de la sociedad civil (Transparencia Paraguay, Contralorhs Ciudadanas, etc.) para emprender
w    a    s de educacih tnibutasia, meurnismosde denuncias de corrupci6n e kkiencia en la
gestiltn piblica, y modidas de transparencia de la actos pfiblicos. En esta misma ifnea, se
promover2 el capital social del pais que se compone basicamente de las rrlacianes de
cooperacibn,et grado de confranza, cxpecrativas de reciprocidad,participaci6ny la sdidaridad
entre 10s ciudadanos.

Ractivacihn de la economh y d               n del empleo, dentro de un n w o modelo de
desarrolloswtentable

                        Con relaci6na la reactivacidade laeconomfa y creacibnde empleo, entre
las prioridades estrategicas se encuentran la aecesidad de recuperar el equilibtio de#sector
financiero, la ehinacih progresiva del deficit fiml y una pnrdonte politica monetaria y
cambiaria, con et fur de mantener unentorno macmn&micofavorablepara el crecimientoy
et desarrdlo. Elprogramplantea, como unodesus pilares, el cmimiento econ6micoBtraves
de la promi611vigorma dc la inversibn en capital fcsico y humo, ia diversificaci6nde la
produccidny lasexportacionesde productosoon mayor valor agregadonacional.

Bn el marc0 de la gbbaIkaci6n       J de este nuwo paradigma, el desarrollo de la capacidad
productiva dei pais se debe guiar por el criterio de la competitividad internacional. En este
sentido, se pnrpone fortalecer las politicas que apunm a crear un adecuado ambiente de
negocioscon reglas claras y defioidas para: (i)prmover industrh de myor valor agregado,
con 6nfasis en la agroindustrias; (i) numas ventajas Competitivas; (ii)hwntivar
                                       desarrdtar
encadenamieafos praductivos que se ditijan hacia el mercado hternacional: y (iv) la
complementacidn econ6mic9en el marc0del Merccwur.

C a b & 8 la pobreza,lac o m p c hy lahlsegudad

Par otra parte, un componente fundamentalde este modelo constituye la h p l ~ n t a c i b nde la
esvategia de reduecibnde ia pobrezay la desigualdad, de                 itxir las drsparidadcs y
la exelusidn social. En esle sentido, el W       o prcrmovcr                      y focaIizadas,
asegurari el acceso a la dud, la 6ducaci6n. y los wmit.                          vulnerabies y

                                                                                           111




                                   43

desarrollarfipoliticas de eguidad. Enel cay0de la atcncibn a ladud, el Estadodarhprioridada
la atenci6n mamm-infantil. a la anupliaci6n de    10s beneficiaries de la atencibn de la salud
Ssica y a la bescentralizackh de 10s servicios en esta h a . Enel campo de la educaci6n, el
&@do seyir4 priorizaodo la continuidadde la reforma " h a         iniciadaen 199.4, a aevts de
iauniveralizaciimde la educaciirninicialy e m h Msieay laampliicihde la mti%nla fa        de
escuela secundnri. Asimismo, el Esrado iniciad un pmg-           de consaucci6n de viviendas
para 10s s " n s   de menores ingresos de la poblacibn, d a n t e sislemas de financiamiento
accesiblessistemas de apda mutuay participaci6nde gobiemoslodes.

                       La implemntacihnde e& paradigmarequkre de un sdecuado equilibria
entre el sector publico y el privado. Emimplicala necesariat r M m c i 6 n del aparatoestatal
que elimine la discrecionalidad en la gestibn pibjica, act& en form subsidiitria y
complementariacon la iniciativaprivada. El sector privadodeb& constituirseen el elemento
generador del crecimiento ecoxlbmico. El Escada dcber4 impkxnentar una p 0 r f h ecoabmica
predecible y mherente y un mgcco juridio-instihacianal adecuado cun las aecesidades de
&sarrollo delpais y para que 10s mercadosfuncionenadecuadanmte.

C     Perspedvaseeon6mkasp a el 2003-2004.

                       ElGobiemoes mwiente que el palsenfrenta crtxientesprobhs, que
trasciendenel mer0logrode la astablidadmacroecodmka. Lataw de crecimiento econ6mico
promedio de la decada pasada de apenas 2,l par ciento anual, es p ~ ~ delaprolongado
                                                                                b
estancamientoeconbmico, tendenciaque persisteen 10saaoS nxieotcs. Est0encoincidenciacon
una tasa de cmimiento pobiacional del 2,6 por ciento and, permite promtkar mayores
problemas sociales. En efeao, la pobreza ha venido empeorando, tanto en cuanto a su
dispersihngeogrhfica, como en cuanta a sus caractEristicascualitativas, afectandoya al 34 por
ciento de lapobIacibn, segb damde la Encuestade Hog-           ZOOWW1.
                       La Administracibn actual ha heredado ua pals que experhmta un
prolongado estancamfento ecoo6mim y una reoeaibn en 10s &ltkn0saaOs, instiaiciones del
Estado &biles y acompafiado de un deteriorode las R R a "       plbliicas que 8e traduce en una
muy limitada capacidad del propi0 Gobimo en cumplir con sus comprafiisosde pago de la
deuda externa e interna. Como consccuencia de ello, la Admiaistracibn dc gobiemo enfrenta,
para fines del 2003,una brecha financiers de alrededor de US$200millones.
                       Frentea esta siwih,el Paraguay se enamailnegociandounAacrdo
conel Fond0 Monetariolntemacionala fin de que la pall                               a " i z a r
el grado de incenidumbre. otorgando seilales claras al                              ufix que este
sector sea el generador genuino de un crecimiento       r.                          respecto, el

                                                                                            I/I




                                   44

 &I.

Gobirno reconoce que ello puede lograrse permerando en 10s esfuerzos de prudencia h i ,
monerariay cambiaria asl como la continuaci6nde las r e f o m del Stctor phblico. Todo esto
permitiria crear un ambienre wnducente a un mayor crecimknto econivmico y haria al pais
menosvulnerable a 10s choquesextcrnos.
                      Para el a b uxf3, se estima que Intasa real de crecimientodelP1B estacia
entre 1.5 por cientoy 2,s parcknto, y  6e puedepronosticaruna leve apnciecicincambiariaque
pertnitirlaque hinhi6n se ubiqueentre el 8 y 10 por ciento. FJ balancc en cuenta corriente
cerrariaconAdo positivocercaria a14 porcientodelFIB. Enet sector fiscal slf regismriauna
redwci6ndelMicit fiscal. situandose en alrededar del 2 por cknto del producto, &bid0 a un
aumem de la recaudacidntributaria y a uncrecimientoegcBM)del gastopbblh. Esrodltimoes
debido, en parte. al congelamiento de 10s salarios naminalesdel sector @ M ien el 2003, y a
la decisibn de la nueva Ad"Ciivn           de suspender la maym parte de las ampliaciones
presupuestarias.
                      Las proyecciones de las priacipales variables macmcconbmicas para el
ttno2004,pennitenavimrar unpanorama nxis alentador. Se estima uncrecimientode1product0
entre el 2 por ciento y el 3 pw ciento, mhntras que la estimacidnde la fasa de inRaci6n no
sobrepalsaria un dfgito, y la devaluac@nwbiaria 10por ciento, EIprrsupuesto2M)4 prevk un
superkvit primario de 0.4 por ciento del PIB ken& a un & k i t primarii eliiimado de 1 par
cicntoparael 2003 y un&kit primriade 1.8porcientoparael a80 2002.
                      En cuanto a la deuda externa, el Gobierno tiene la firme intencibnde
honrar 10s comgromisos asurnidos coo 10s acreodores, como de acordar thnhos de
renegociacibncon 10s &mas, y comoobjetvo tratar6demanteaer laProporciSndel pesode la
deuda conrelacibnal product0de aproximadamenteel42 por ciento(agostOlUxf~).

                      Tambidn es importante h c a r que a prhipios del mea de actubre de
2003 fue firmado el documem0 &nOmiuado 'Agenda I n t e m i d entre los Poderes
Ejecun'vu y Legislarivo". Este documento sc ha cowertido en un acucrdo politico, coma
resultadode lap negociacianesdel Poder Ejecutivacon los lideres del Congmso NW~OMIde      y
Los partidm polWx rtpresenladosen el misma cuerpo LegislritLivo. Btaagenda contempfa e1
compromisode reducir10s gastosrlgidosdel Proyectode Presuplestodel             W,asicomota
presentaciSn, estudio y tratamiento acelexado en el C m ~ s o 10s siguientes pmyeema de
                                                                de
leyes: (i)Refonnade las JubilacionesdelSector pcltrlico; {ii)ReordenarnientoAdministratlvo y
Adecuraciba Piscal; (iii)Nwvo C6dilgo Adumem; (iv) ~
(v) Reforma de la Banca MMia;y (vi) de la Reformadel Er          a   c    i dehk Deuda Wblica;
                                                                                     Pirblicas,
coma se describem8sabajo.


                                                                                         Jf1




                                    45

                                               -9-




   .M.

D.     Medidasdecor& plazo
                       Para h e r frente a la creciem iliqvidez de 10s recursos piiblicos se ban
adoptadomedidastendientesa manhmr bajos niveles de Ids gastos ptiblicosy a incrementarla
ncaudacidn tributaria, de maneraa reducireldkfieitfiscalpara el aiio 2003. Endrminosde los
gastos del Estado, sc han privilegiado la campafia agricola y 10s gastos sociaks en medio de
fuertes restrieciones presupuestarias (reduccitln de empleados contratadas, congelamiento de

recaudacidnaibuaria, la6 mismas han tenido un incrementa significative desde agosto &Ib
salaries, retiro de las ampliaciones pnwpuestarias no prhritarias). En t6nniWs dea la
en curso (41 por ciento de i n " t o        norninaf mensual), m y rmperior a 10s niveles de
recaudacibndel afh 2oaz. Ello se ha debidoa la e l i i n de               * cbnes burocrfiticas
ea las Aduanas, al iniciode4 reordenarnientode fiizacibn en las direccionesde tributacidnde
Hacienda, y a una mayor confifianza delptlblicoLacialaAdministraci6nacctusl.

                       Tambien, y en relacih a la deuda p4blica en mora. so han renegociado
deudas vencidas y a vencer can 14 bancos privados de plaza, que son 10s acreedores
mayoritarios(54 par cimto) de la deuda internedel Estado(US138 millones). Como resultado
de eilo se ha recalendarizadoel pago de estas deudas con inicioen et alba 2004 y &mino en el
2008. y se haenviado al Congrew Nacionalun rmevoproyeaode ley de emisidw de bonosdel
tesoro. Se tiere previstoademas, enelcortoplazo, la bmmi6n de comisioaespara remgwiar
la deuda interna flotante con ploveedons locaks y la deuda emma bilateral (gobiernos y
h n c o s extranjeros).

E. hograma dc reformasestructurales
Se enmenuan pendientes de imnplementacibn r e f o m esmcartales de importancia que la
Administracibnactual ha enrpozadoa encarar:
-    Reformasde la Adminisnaci6n Pfibtica.
--   Reforma del Sector Financier0hfblicoy Privado.
     ReformaTributarla.
---  Refvmde Pensiones Pirblicas(CajasFiscal&.
     Reformade lasEmpcesaspbblicas.
     hograma de Combatea la Pobmza.
     Programde Competitividad.
RePomade la AdmhrWadcm Pfrbfiea
                       Como se ha mncionado anterimnte. en el
hecho esfucrzos teoctientes a reformar el &tado, pro p
crecimiento del nlrmero de cargosen el sector pfibliw fue dr
concepmde salarior. toqueexplicael papef principalqueiuega




                                   46

en la actual crisis fiscal. La distribucidn de f u m h entre Minlsterios y was entidades
rstatales no es clara, y hay proliferacibn de entidades que ffagmentan 10s esfuenos del
Gobierno. En e m sentido, se han iniciado alpnm acciones importantesque apuntana mejorar
la gestibnptlblica.

                      En primer lugar, se ha comnzado con el censo de fwncionarioa pitblicos
que permiWd detectar el nlmero exact0 de h i m r i m del Estado paraguayo, grsdo de
capaciwi6n de 10s mkmos, eategoriasde empleo y niveles salxhla.Elcew, que finalimta
en diciembre del 2003, permitid canm can informaci6n actualha& y confiable para el
desarrollode politicas, norms y modelosorganizacm, cantribuyendoa la excelenciade la
gestihde 10s cecutswdel Estado,En relacifina ello, se ha iniCio ladepuracibnde la nbmina
de funcionariosa travhs de acciones que eliminen el pago de mas de unsalark,por funcionario
de la Administracidn Priblica. SC encuentrm en emdio, asimismo, esquem e instancias de
capacitacibndel funcionaxiadopilblico, mediante la cwperaci6n intemacional.
                      Igualmwte, y en el  cax) epificri del Ministerio de Hschda, 9e ha
solicitadounaCOopeIacidndel BancoMundial,paraconvertir a esta entidaden un Miisterio de
Exceleacia, con profesionalescppacitados y con sewieios de alta dM.Todns mtas acciones
st han m n z a d o a implmentara partirde la formaeh de UM Comisi6nde Phnificaci6ny
Racionalizacibn de la &sti6n de 10s Recursos del Estado integrada por el Ministerio de
Hacienda. la Secretaria Tknica de PlanificaciSn y la Secretaria de la Funeibn Wblica. Las
Eunciones de esta Cemisibn e s b orientadasa establecer UR modelo de gestifindel Emdo quc
permitaunaprofesionaliracih de ioscuadrosdhctivos y mandmmediosde la Administmi611
Wblica, y una mejora m la cenualizacibn admiistrativa y Ea de.vxntraliiibn operativa de la
funcibn ptlblica. Aden&, esta Comisibn permite la coordinaci6n en el mtamiento de la
coaperacibnexterna al Paraguay, especifiuunente en hkmkos de contratacibny coordinacibn
con el programde desarrollodel Gobierno.

                      A&&,     se han firmado conveniw con organizmbnes de la Sacieckd
civil, con mirasal controlciudadano &re lagestibde lacarttra delMinisteriode Hacienda,y
sobre el uso de 10s recurm tributaries del Estado, como asf an acuerdo con el Ministerio de
Educsci6ny Culmraparaayudar a concientizara laciudadaniasobre laimportanciadelpagode
10s i r n p u ~la reducci6n de la evasibn. EHOSesfuerzos serin canaljzados a traves de la
                y ~
fimcibn de una Unidad de Transparencia y prlrticipllci6n Ciudadana en el Ministerio de
Hacienda,a ser implantadaantesde fin delaik,2003.

                      Parael Iogmde   UM  mayor transparenciaen la
Gobwmo est& impulsando nuevas medidas de combate a la cnrr
voluntaria de la$ declaracioncs juradas de bienesdelP~c.sitlt.




                                  47

realizada en el mes de septktnbre del 2003. De la m ' m forma, el Gobierno *ye                la
formulaci6n y sancidn de una ley que mejore y transparente las declaracioeesjuradas de bienes
de 10s   funcionarios p~bkos,con mayores medidas de control, monitoreo y sanciones.
Asimismo, el Gabien~,&ti impulsando um ley contra el lavado de diero, estabkciendo la
delegaci6n de responsabilidadea dentro del Poder Ejecutivoy pennitiendoel procesamienta del
lavadode dinerocomoun delito authomo.

                      Como mazco general p a la gesti6n de fas recurso$ del Estado, M: ha
elaborado, por primera vez, unpregupucstopor programaspara el u)I)4. conobjetivosclam e
inddores de resultados. AdemBs, se ha daborado un Plan de Acci6n de Gestidn Financiera
pirblica, en coiaborscih con el Banco M W iy el Banco Interamericanode De8arrolIo. plan
que debera ponerseen marchapacafines del aR0 2003.

                      Un pas0 importante dado en el afb 2003 ha sido la reglameatacibnde la
nueva Ley de Adquisiciones asi como la creacibn de UM Direcci6nGeneral de Contrataciones
Mblicas. En este tema, se ha elaboradoun PIan de A c c h de ContraracionesPiibiicas. Varias
de las mcdidas incorporadas en el rnismo se encuentran bajo implemenracb, e incluyen la
Capacitackjnde funcionariospttbtioosy de la sociedad civil en la ~ l e m e ~ i de n tey y de
                                                                                   6 la
su reglamentaci6n, el desarrolio de pliegos estandarizados. y et l d n t o de una &ha
ekctrdnicade informacibnsobredquisiciones.

                      Tambi6n se encuentra en la agenda del Gobierno apresurar la habilitacibn
de la Vcntanilla Onba de ExportacionPS, para simpUficar [os namiteS relacionadas con la
exportacibn e impulsar e m actividad fundamenlal para el logm de ,una mayor tasa de
crecimiento econ6rnico. Eneste sentido, se: esth eiaboranda un RegistroUnbdel Exportador
pafa su habilitacihn antes de fin del 2003, el cuai es una etapa clave para la eventual operaci6n
del Centro de Sinpjifwib de Wmites de la Exportaci6n.
                      Lkbido e loa aumerosos alrasos en la cjwu&n de los proyectos de
invgrai6n con cooperacih externa, se ha creado recientemente la Unidad Central de la
Inversidn Ribfica, para evaluar y controlar cualitatlva y cuantitativamen& 106 programas de
inversi6ndel E.stadoy forrnular recomendacionesparaoptimizarloa nivelesde rrnd&nto.           La
mea fundamental de la Unidad es hacer un scguimiento de los avances y limitacionesde 10s
proywtos,de maneraa implementar Widas comtivas inmediatas.
                      Parael mediano plaza, el Estadoenfrenta otw de8afi0-3 que se enmarcan
dentra de las r e f o m de segumtagmracifm. Eaestesenrido. se debendefdr mecanismnsde
wntmles extemosde 10s entes del Poder Ejecutivo, en cuanto id                             de sus
fmes: mayor participaci6n de lm ciudadanos en el control y         I                      ;y el
desarrollo de wn sewicio civil adecuado, que implica                                      idos y
formacibnde recursoshumanos.




                                   48

                                               -12-




Relorma Finadera
Estado paa regular alEn   el M i t o del sectvor finaaciero, tx busca fortalec.erla capacidad &l
                       sistema furancieroy p"ir       elmiagio de las crisis, utiluandom&&m
para dompattir Im rievos y para r&ucir ias p6didas. En cuante a actiones comretas,            6e
encuentra en proceso de aprobacibn una ley para crear el Fond0de Garanifasde Dep6sitos y
Resolucioaes Bancarias, la aprobaciiia de la modificacidn, par el Banco Central. de la,
Res0lucii)n 8, que regula la clasificacicin de crdditos, ad c o m la pmentacibn al Congresode
unanuevaLeyde Baocosy modifiwionesa la Cam Orgsnicadel                      Central.

                      EnrCrminosde la reformaf-bra,           un &ma pendieatees la r e f o mdc
Ins entidabs financicras estaeales, que wWtnente evidencian un estado de blvencia, mala
asignaci6nde subsidiosy reglasdejuego querm inceativanlabuenaspr8chs. Esta reforma
abatearia a1 Barn Nacional de Wmento, Fond0 Ganadero, Fond0 de Dtsarrollo Industrial,
C w j o Na~ionalde la Vivienda, Banco Nacionat de fa Vhienda, C&ito                  Aprlcola de
Habilitaci6ny Fond0 de Desarrolb Campesin0. En breve, el Foder Ejmtivo remitirh al
Corigreso Nacional el pmyectode ley de la bsmaptibIblica, Estaiey txlscai la unificacibnde las
institwiones financieras del Estado, la creacidn de una banca de primer piso para la pcpeiia
produccib, y la crclacidnde una banca de seguadr, pis0 para htalmxr el sistema bartcario y
pronwverel desarrotion a ~ i omediaatetasas de inter& y p h mcompedtivas.
                                  ~ l

                      A1 mismo tiempo, son itrytortantes 10s ajwtes que mkivia resultan
neeemrimen el sistema finaDciemprivadoy que tjipnen relacidinoonevitar altos wtos parael
Estado frenre a crisis bancarias, como al fbrtakitnienta de las regulacbs del s i m
financkro, a partir del en& ptiblicode supervisibn,

RefarmaTriiutaria

                      Con Ja reforma uibutaria y oms medidas relacionadas, se pretehde
fortaker la competitividad del pais a mvts de bnpwstos bajos y generalidcw, una

de Iw ingresos @bliCas, En cuanto a las d i d a s que sc pretMldcn iPlpiementar
adminismcibny concbncia cributaria hem,y b distribuci6nequitativa y asigmcibneleficiene    hbito
tributario, PR ha enviado a! Congreso un proyiecto de Ley de Rc?otdenamientoAdminimativo y
Adecuacidn Fiscnl que contempla varios ekmentos kporrmtes para Ia reforma imp09iriva.
co"   la eliminacihde numrmasexoneracianes
base de contrhyentes, Incremntando la equidad
por el proyecta de iey inchyen:




                                            49

    Ampliaci6nde la basedel hpwsto a1Valor Agregado(IVA) medianrela generalizacihdel
    IVA parael Sector agrapcxxurrio, servicimy amalescontribuyentesdel TritWto On&;

    Amnto del impuestoselwtivo a] consumosobreel a1cahoi ,10s cigarrillos, y la inclusi6n
    Eliminacidnde la mayorpartede lasexetrcioms;

    de otros arthies suntuaricw,
    Reducciitndel impllesto a la renfa de laa empresss del 30aI 10 por ciento. y ampliiibn de
    la base impositiva;
    La incorporaeittnde la actividadagropecuaria at impst0 a la ranta. a la fasa del 10 por
    ciento, quedado exoneradaa las pequeiias propiedades, y eii"tdo                  el Impuesto
    Agropecuario(IMAGRQ).

                        Asi"o,    se imputsarhel aumentOdel impucm selectivo a1 wmmo del
gasoil del 20 por cicnto ai 26 por ciento, a principiosdelarT0 2004.

Reforma del Cltdigo Aduaaen,

                        En el mes de Oetubre del 2003, ha sido sometido a wnsider&bn &I
CongresoNaciondl un b y e a o de Ley de Reformadel CWio Adnanero. E& nuevo cddiga
adecua la5 insthetonesy 10s agentes que participanen el intercambiocomercial del Paraguaya
10s 61timos cambios producidosen Ias relacioneseconbmicas intcrnacionales.

                        El nuevo c6digo incluye el reconocimiento y fa aplicacibn de nuevos
principios considerados fundamentales en el desarrollo de tab aCtividades de una Aduana
modem: Ia transparencia, la responsabilidad del funcionario, la slmpli&aci4n de la funci6n
aduanera, la profesionalizaci6ndel personaly la auto"ci6n        de 9us a c t i v i s

                        Las principates caractfirfsticas del mevo crkligo a " x o        son: (i)
automia imtiatcionai de La aduana; (ii)infonatatizsci6n de tadw 10s puestos aduaneros del
pais; (iii) la vinculacidnde d w d m IS obligaciom de todos 10s actorespclblim y privadosque
participande 10s procedimientosaduaneros; (iv)la creaci6nde nuevas Sgurase instin" en las
operacionesaduaneras de exportacih e importacib; (v) el establwimhto de "              e s     y
prohibiciones en las operaciones de wmercia inlernacional; (vi) el VatamientO de tributo
aduamro; (vii) el tratamiento de zonas aduaneras especiales; (viii) la disposiciones para la
comercializacidn y destruccih de las mercaderias; y (ix) lg                    y funciones de las
autaridadesaduaneras.


                                                                                           .I//




                                    50

                                                14-




  JII.

Refurmadel?Xs&m Pensiunes
                       de

                      En lo que respecta a las pensims. 10s crecSemesproblemas financieras,
inequidades. y tiistorsiones ea el mrmdo laboral, han impubado P Gobiemo a plantear ullil
profunda reforma del sistema de pensionesptibli. Elca&tcr de urgmia de esta refomes
cada vez mhs evidente plws 10s dtSfcit anuales que deben ser cubiwtos con recum fiscales
tiene unr i mde crecimienmde atmledordel 31 por cientoanualnominaldurante las~ltimoa4
aaos.

                      El Poder EjeCutivo ha enviado para la conslderacibn del Congrcso
Nacional, el proyecto cfk. ley de nforma de las pensiones pdblicas (Caja Fiscal)que apuntl B
racionalizar h s contribucianesy edades de jubilaci6n en el =tor @blico, para superar un
deficitcreciente de esta caja, que a rm vez se convkrteen el catlsanteprincipaldeldeficit de las
cuentas pclblkas. El proywlo de ley apunta a reformar la Caja y asegurar su sastenibilidad
mdinte iassigukntesmedldasprincipales:

    La elevaci6nde la tam de aporre;
    La rndificacih de 10s rquisitos para obtener la jubilaci6n ordinaria, hcluyendo el
    aumentode edady anrigilesadminima,y restringirlajubilacin cxtraordiiia paraaqueilos
    cona1mnos 50&os de edad y 20 aiios de sewicio;
    Establcccr com saiario base para el pago de jubilaciones, el promdo de b s 10 bktimos
    aaos.

                      En el casu de las jubilacbnes del sector privado (IPS), el Gobiem
Nacional establocer8 un Gmpo de Evaluacibn. y Recoaardacinpara el IPS, buntacando 10s
siguientes objetivos: (i)elaborar recomendaciones para el fartalecimienta y la reforma de
institwitha travQ de un aumento de la transparenciay fa eficiencia en su funcionamlento y
resporurabilidadsocial; (ii)hick en rl aAo 2004 el diseilo de refoms "arias       a1sistema de
seguridad social; e (iii)implementar a partir del 2005, la nestruchlraci6n dcf sistema de
seguridad social.

Reforma de lasEmpresnsMblicas

                      ElGobiernoNacional tambib proyeetaunacoordinaciiilnoperativade las
Emprcsar;Nblicasque sea capaz de: (i) la elaboracibndc onplandedeaan~Hoempnsarial; (ii)
el desarrollode indicadoresde efichncia, rentabilidady                    las eqresas pGblicas;
y (iii)el diseilo de un sistema que pemita la parmi                         rivado. a travb de
meurnism de capitalbibn, tercerizacitmu o m .

                                                                                           AI.




                                   51

                                              -15-



NQ 6311


                       Adem;is, el Gobierno SB abocari a la j  ~    ~   e de ~ajusties 6ptimosc
                                                                                   ~    ~        ~ n
de 10s precios de semicia @bliws que ofrecen estas empresas de manera a evitar
desequilibrbs en las finamag de estas empresas, sin que 10s ~ s m o sajustes impliquencostos
m y elcvados para 10s usuaricrsde e m servicios.

                       Finalmen&, el Gobierno implementars medidas que wguren mayor
transparenciaen el manejo de las empresas pilblicas, tanto fat&"s      de auditorbs externas,
coma&unmayor conocirniento pbMlc~de losdamtinancbrosde @stasempresas.
combate B LaPob-

                       En relacibn a 10s problemas smides y al rec-into         de 10s nivefes
depobrezs, se haelaborado una EszraIegiade Combatea la Pobrezaqueexigii la participacibn
de 10s entes econ6micos y sociales de h adminiptraci6n de gobierno, en conjuacitm con
organizacims Ck: la Mlciedad civil. Una vez aprobados 10s lb"irtnl03      principales de esta
estrategia por el Gobicrno la Secretarfa de Acciira Social sed la encargada de coordinar la
ejecucibn de 10s programas de la "a.Ayudar&a la implementacibn de esta estrategia el
mien-&
dc loa diversosems del Estado~ P trabajan enel abea social y dis&ar m e d ide politiCacon
               formado C a b h Social. que por un lado prtrtend+mflinar todaa las acciones
                                     C
el Equip0l 3 " m h del Gobierno Nacionstl,desdeel momentatn queel Ministrade Hac&
es miembronatadelGabmeteSocii.

                       Las principiosorbntadores para la formulacih e hplemntiwibnde la
estrategk de combate a la pobrcza y a la extrema pobreza, incluyen: la mejar focalizacih de
lasaccionesa 8er realizadas,y laidentificacibnprecisade 10s sectoresy gmposbeneficiados; Ia
integralidad, generandoresulcados a partir de eentrar ias accbnes en la pobiaci6nme&, antes
que en ca& pmymta en particular; y la activa particlipaei5n de 10s gobiernos tbcales y de la
sociedad civil, permitiendo laestructuracihde mecanismosauthoos de evaluacibnrespectoa
la m h a de lmproyectosy SUB rmltados,

Programsde Comptkividad

                       Con el prophitode transformar el actual modelo e~0n6micay promover
el crecimiento del producto, el Gobiemo National ha fijado comagunarde~sus~principales
prioridadmi la industrializacihnexportadomdel pfs, a travesde laa                      dy de~la ~ ~ l ~ j ~
fcmnacibn de cadenas productivasal interior delpais y can  MISprincipatesmios del Mercosur.
Para este propbsito, el Miniateria de Industria y
desarrolla industrial a &av& del foment0 de 1
exportadores nacionaks, de la prMnociCln de 10s *                             el combare & la
pirateriay fabisificacibn.




                                          52

                                                -16-




 JII.

                       Enel c%sode las PYMEs,cl Mnistctiodr:industriay comc?rcio(MIC) s
ha propuestorevisarel marc0regulatorbde Ias "aspara adaplnrlo de forma maS flexible a
la opemtiva de este t i p de empresas     - que  constituytn la mayoria del sector privado en el
pais -y  facilitar su expansih Al "otimpo.se ha propuem inrensificarla fonnaei6nde
coasorcios de exportacibn tenieado como IJWZ PYMEs y a la asoeiacibn de las mismas
                                                   a las
para unaproducci6nen escala. Ea, aslmismo,objelivo del MICaprovechar la didmica agrbla
de ias regiones fionterizas del pais (soja. trigo, maiz, Carrie) para incentivar una mayor
industrialir.aci4n de 10s principales productw de exportacibn y crear cadenas productivascon el
Brasilen el Merccrsur.

                       Por 9u Mo, el Mhisterb de Agdcultura y Ganaderfa (MAG) se
encuentra embarcado en un programa de diversificach de la prodwi6n agrlcola y en la
mjora de las normas sanitarii y de calidadpara laexportacih. Eneste sentido, s t encuema
impulsandopragramasde capacitachen twaologfaagrleola, en comerehlii13ny tratamiento
de la tierra (conservactcibn de suelos y cuencas dc agva), y para la tbcnlca de encadenmientoil
agro-industriales. Igualmente,el MAG sc ptoponewar la produccibnganaderaconsolidando
10s avances genCticasy sanitarios akarwdos en el pais, y propiciandoprogramas que aurnenten
la productividaden came y kche. En el &reaforestal, .$e ha pmpuesto exigir un manejod s
racional de Ius boques nativose iniiciarun process de refomstaci6nmucho maS amplio que el
programaque se encuentra envigencia.

                       Enel Ambit0de la infraestmcorrafiska, b s progsamas esth orkntadoaa
facilitarlas salidasy accesosa laproducciijnnacional, comoa una mayor integracih fisicacon
la regibn, a crave% de rmevas cbnexiones viales y de la construcci6n y t e d c i 6 n de tramos
viales que fonnan parte de 10s corredOrCS biooe8nicos. El Ministerio de lobras PlSblEcas se
mbarcarienprogramasorienu#ios aaumentar lacwuuccibndeCaminascuralesy vecinalesy
en iograr la descentralizaci6n de esfe iipo de &as de hfraeWuWra tan fwdmental para fa
safida de la producci4nagricola a 10s " d o s        interno y externo. Asi"o.       se propow: la
pavimentaci6nde varias mtasque c011cctanregiones intemsen el paisy que conecm qiones
aisladas con la frmtcra braSikh, tanto en el estecomo en el mroesta de Ia geogmfia nacional.
Enet cas0 de la kgi6n Occidental o Chaco, dos obras de pavimentacicinse han iniciadopara
finatizarlaconexibndelpaiscon lospuertosdel F'acffm.

E. Conclusi&n

                        Id~           ~ rtcrsibii que viv
                                                  ~        ~         ~II.WCU~~ICIB riel ~
                                                                     ~          ~          ~~     ~~ ~  ~~  i ~~  ~
de WR rnodelo ecconomiio que ha. dcirdo de prom                         to, 4 que por Io t   a ha~  ~
                                                                          i6nparagunya A ellit .w

                                                                                             .!!I




                                      53

                                               -17-




suman lo&altos nivelesde imgularidades,corrupcidnc inefEienciade1Estado parquayoy las
graves consecuencias que las mi-       han acmeadoparalas cuentas f i h s del Gofriemo. La
Administraci6n actual, inaugurada hace tres meses, ha commado a estructurar pollticas de
mediano plaza para lograr la sostenibilidad fwal, mejorar la gcstibn en la A         d    ai6n
pslblicay reactivar la economh. A1 mismo tiempo ha implementado mcdidas de corm plaza
para baeer frente a lacrecientc iliquidez&ITewro Nacid, en mediade fuertefi restriccimes
prewpwstariaa,

                      El apoyo credirkioque se scrlicita rtlBanco Mundiale&para hacer fcente
a1 probkm de iliquidez del Estado partquayo, per0 tambih para apuntalar el programa de
sostenibilidad Wwal que se propone el Gobierno Nacioml, en el mediano ptazo. En este
sentido, el Gobierno Nacionaf se muentra negochdo un p ~ m suidd by em el Fond0
                                                                         o
Monetario Interaacional @MI)por el t e r "         de 15 mews que, fundamntalmente, estartt
certificandolas accianes que ha programadoel GobiirnoNacionalpara rccuperar la esmbilidad
fseal y monetaria y tener una mayor capacidad de pago para hwrar 10s cmnpro&s            de la
deuda pdblice contraida. Aparte de cilo, tsmbieneI Wkmo Nacionalse encwntranegocdo
con et Banco Interamericaaode Dasarrollo (BID) para la obtenci6nde WOSproteoch   de
social que wan coinplementsrios a 10s esfut?nos de mluci6n de kos probtemas de corm y
mediano plaza de la f-s
M     s organisms multilateraiespiiblim vita! importancia en la coyuntura actual y servirh de
                                         del Paraguay. El apoyo del Banco Mundial y de 10s
                                   sera de
base, sin lugar a dudas, para el Wicio de las reformasestnrcturalesde la Administraciitn Wblica
y parar e m " el crecimientoecomhnico en el Paraguay.




                                           54

  Annex 111.Letter of Development Policy (English Translation)


                                                            Asuncion, 19* November, 2003

To the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (IBRD)
Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
Washington, D C - USA

Dear Mr.Wolfensohn,

This letter provides basic informationon the country's economy, as well as the
framework within which the economic recovery program and the public administration
reform are placed. Its purpose i s to request financial support from the World Bank for
ensuring the availability of complementary, short-term financial resources, inorder to
support the actions currently under way tending to introduce the planned adjustments. At
the same time, the requestedassistancewill facilitate the implementation of the structural
reforms by the ParaguayanGovernment as from 2004, aiming at a rational and efficient
management of public finances, economic reactivation, the fight against poverty and the
implementation of a social protection net.

A.      Evolution of the Paraguayan Economy
        Crisisof the DevelopmentModel
                 The national economy inrecent years has been characterized by a deep
recessionandlengthy stagnation, with the consequent negative effects on the well-being
of the population. The growth rate of the production of goods and services duringthe last
twenty years has beenbelow the demographic growth rate. Over the last five years, the
average annual growth of the GrossDomestic Product has beennegative.

                 Fromthe perspective of competitiveness andwell-being, and as compared
with other Mercosur countries, Paraguay's situation appears even worse. Paraguayhas
the lowest per capita income and economic growth rate inthe region, as well as the
lowest level of basic services coverage and the lowest education levelin its workforce.

                 Thiseconomic situation partly reflects a vulnerability to external
upheavalsinthe region as well as to fluctuations of the international market and, mainly,
to the crisis of the economic development model basedon trade triangulation-        i.e. the
legal andillegal re-exporting of goods acquired from countries outside Mercosur to
neighboring countries -, low agricultural productivity and poor diversification of the
country's genuineexports. Inaddition to this situation, there i s also the institutional
weakness of the ParaguayanState and the poor governance observedover the last ten
years.

                Infact, Paraguay's development modelinthe last years, basedon the
production and export of a few commodities with low value-added and on the


                                             55

triangulation trade, is currently incrisis, resulting inserious negative consequencesfor
people's living conditions. Inthe first place, there has been a dramatic decrease incotton
harvests, due to reducedinternational prices andto the credit-related disincentive in
relation to this crop, which have hadan impact on the small-scale production. Inthe
secondplace, triangulation (re-exporting), which in 1995 representeda four-times the
country's genuine exports, haddroppedby 75% by the end of 2002, partly due to the
devaluation of the Braziliancurrency andto greater controls on this traffic by Brazil, as
well as due to the convergenceprocess inMercosur import duties.

                The structural crisis is reflected inthe recessionof the last five years, and
particularly inthe significant drop inthe economic activity in2002. GDPfell by 2.2%,
which has meant a decrease inthe goods and services available to the population, smaller
income andreducednumber ofjobs. Annual inflation was 14.6%, as aresult of the
restricted supply of goods and services, also stimulated by a deep devaluation of the
Guarani vis-&vis the US currency.

                Inthe monetary sector, aggregateshave shown alargeconcentration of
foreign currency deposits, and a drop inlendingto the private sector. The latter has been
exacerbatedby an increaseinbank loans arrears, from 12% in 1998to 22% in2003, and
by the impact of last year's banking crisis. However, this was partly mitigated by the
immediate actions taken by the Central Bank.

                Inrelation to 2002 fiscal accounts, collections went upby 2.8% and
expenditures by 15.9%. This explains the hikeinfiscal deficit, which by the end of
December 2002 represented3.5% of GDP. The rigidity of current expenditures andthe
structural problems inthe retirement and pension system of the public sector are the main
reasonsfor the increasein that deficit, apart from the reduced flow of Royalties and
Compensationsfrom the ItaipuBi-nationalEntity, and of lower fiscal revenues due to the
drop inGDP.

                Inthe internationalcontext, the crisis the neighboringcountries andmain
businesspartnersinthe region experienced, especially Argentina, hada serious impact on
trade, reflectedby the deepeningdecrease inthe demand for cotton, soybean, corn, wood
andbeef, among others.

                Net International Reserves have shown a clear downwardtrend, totaling
U$S646 million in2002, a consequenceof the Government's difficulties bothinthe
fiscal andthe financial areas.


        Poverty and Insecurity
                The lack of real economic growth and the State's poor performance
causeda high cost to Paraguayansociety. Poverty and insecurity increased significantly,
degrading the population's life conditions and threatening democracy. Around 34% of the
population lives inpoverty and 17%inextreme poverty, and there are strong indications
that these figures have increased in the last two years. Poverty i s worse inrural areas.



                                              56

               Inrelation to education, despitethe fact that illiteracyhasbeencurbedand
school enrolment increased, there are still significant coverage deficits, and quality i s an
outstanding issue, which requires substantial improvement so as to strengthenthe
country's human capital.

               Moreover, many people do not have access to health services. It i s
estimated that 30% of the population does not have health coverage, mostly among poor
people.

                Current social security services, mainly supportedby a distribution system
organized in more than ten different schemes and managedby six entities barely cover
15% of the formal urbansector,. Furthermore, there are serious flaws inthe management
of programs andresources, which curtail the system's viability, as well as its equity and
labor mobility.

               Deficits inhousing, water and sewage are significant, with a strong impact
on the population's quality of life, becauseof overpopulation, consumption of non-
drinkable water and pollutionof the soil, food and water beds.

                Unemployment andunderemployment have grown significantly inthe last
few years, mainly among the young population. The deterioration of the income and the
employment conditions have brought about changes inthe life strategy of bothurban and
rural families.

                Insummary, poverty andindigence arerapidly destroying the country's
social assets andendangering the quality of democracy. Effectivelymitigating poverty
and fighting urban insecurity are two of the big challenges of the democratic transition
that have not yet been solved.


        Economic Instability Risks
                Apart from the structural problems pointed out, signs of macroeconomic
instability have recently sprouted. The deterioration of economic indicators, which were
under control for decades, i s a growing concern. The inflation rate, which hadhistorically
been a one-digit figure, i s showing instability (it hikedto 14.6% in2002). There i s also
an increaseinfiscal deficit to unusual levels inthis country (from 0.3% of GDP in 1995
to 3.3% of GDPin 2002). The fall intax revenues i s also a concern, as well as the climb
ininterest rates (58% inlocalcurrency inApril 2003 and 10%inU$S), increasein
arrears, exchangerate instability and the conversion of deposits and credits into US
dollars.


        Pending Issues of the Transition Period
               Public Administration structure and managementhave serious limitations.
Programobjectives andgoals are not clear andoperate without coordination. Resource
allocations are made without a mediumand long-term vision. There i s no human
resources policy inplace. Checks andbalances are weak. Management and results are


                                             57

unsatisfactory. Civil society lacks tools to exert influence on public policies and to
evaluateits results. Public Administration modernization i s still a pending issue.

                 Few reforms have reachedsatisfactory goals, such as the educational
reform, the State's Financial Management Act andthe Public Procurement Act. Most
attempts (Banking Organizations Act, Stock ExchangeAct, institutionalreform of several
ministries) didnot achieve the expectedresults and others have faileddue to acts of
corruption (privatizations).

                 External cooperation i s much neededbecauseinternal savings are
insufficient. The weakness of the financial intermediation system and the lack of a
securities market prevent any increaseinthe current levels of internal savings of the
country.

                 A responsible policy, ledby the current economic authorities, prevents
indebtednessbeyondthe country's repayment possibilities anddirects obtainedloans to
strategic projects. Paraguayhas always maintained a moderateindebtedness policy.
However, in the last few years the public debt policy has somehow diverted from this
trendat atime of economic recessionandlow levels of tax revenues.The growing fiscal
deficit of the last few years, together with the suddendevaluations of the national
currency, have curtailed the country's capacity to service the debt, which by the endof
2002represented42% of GDP.

                 Another pending issue of the transition periodi s the delay inthe reformof
public banking, public andprivate social security and state-ownedcompanies. It is
necessaryto improve access to social security and public utilities quality and coverage,
production-oriented credit coverage and to reducethe cost of money.

                 A growing concern among citizens is the operation of the legal system.
Despite the fact that there have been changes inthis area, inmany cases more formal than
substantial, the results fall behind people's expectation for buildingdemocracy, for
economic recovery to take place andfor social justice to be achieved.

B. Vision, Objectives and Strategic Guidelines of the 2003-2008 Government
Program.

                 The scenario described above merits a deep review of the last years'
development model andrequires transformation of the production structure and of the
State's institutional framework. This transformation, inturn, impliesto take a new
integral vision of the different dimensions of the development process as startingpoint,
and to set the promotionof a new model of society with sustainableeconomic growth,
fiscal, social and environmental responsibility as a mission.

                 Inorder to achieve this model, clear, equitable andtransparentrules are
required,as well as overcoming internal conflicts arisenfrom the pre-eminence of
sectoralinterests, fighting against corruption, ensuring the actual enforcement of the law



                                              58

and strengthening internal security, andrecovering the credibility and trust inthe nation
andits future. At the endof the day, it impliesrebuildingthe State as alegal,
administrative andpolitical entity that ensures the actual existenceof the rule of law and
counteracts the centrifugal trends of privileges and informality.

                Inthiscontext, the 2003-2008Government Planposesfour strategic
objectives:

        Recovering confidence on the State's institutions and their representatives

                With the purposeof recovering the trust on the State's Institutions and
their representatives: streamlining economy, fightingcorruption and inefficiency and
reforming andmodernizing the Public Administration, are put forward as priorities. This
aims at buildinga new State, with efficient andneutral policies, open and committed to
society, seeking the improvement in the quality of life of the Paraguayanpeople. A State
that can recover the trust of the economic players by complying with the law without
making any distinction, by applying clear and straightforward rules, with visible results
of its actions, by implementing coordinated programs aimed at concrete goals andby
puttinghavingchecks andbalancesby which results are rewarded or penalized.


        Promoting active involvement of citizens to build the institutions of
        democracy
                Inorder to promote the active involvement of citizens indraftingpolicies
andchecking government actions open and transparent actions and policies will be
implemented, where the people subject to those policies will be involved. Some of these
actions are already inplace, such as agreementswith civil society organizations to launch
fiscal education campaigns, reporting proceduresfor cases of corruption and inefficiency
ingovernment actions, andmeasures of transparencyingovernment actions. Inline with
this, the country's social capital will be promoted, which i s basically composedby
cooperative relations, a higher degree of confidence, expectations of reciprocity,
participation and solidarity among citizens.


        Reactivating the economy and creating employment in a new sustainable
        development model
                Inrelation to reactivatingthe economy andcreating employment, the need
to recover the financial sector balance, the progressive elimination of fiscal deficit and a
soundmonetary andexchange policy are among the strategic prioritiesfor maintaining a
macro-economic environment favorable to growth and development. One of the pillars of
the program are economic growthby means of intensepromotion of investment in
physical andhuman capital, production diversification and exports of products with more
national addedvalue.

                Within the framework of globalization andthis new paradigm, the
development of the country's productive capacity must be driven by the criteria of



                                             59

international competitiveness. Inthis sense, the intention i s to strengthen the policies
aiming at buildingan adequatebusiness climate with clear and well-defined rules for: i)
promotingindustries with a more addedvalue, with emphasis in agriculture-related
industries, ii)developing new competitive advantages, iii)encouraging production chains
targeting the international markets, andiv) promoting economic complementation within
Mercosur.


          Fighting poverty, corruption and insecurity
                 On the other hand, implementing a strategyto reducepoverty and inequity
i s a critical component of this model, so as to reduce inequalities and social exclusion. In
this sense, the Government will promote direct andfocusedactions, will ensure accessto
health services, education, and basic utilities for vulnerable sectors, andwill develop
equity policies. Regardinghealth, the Government will give priority to mother and
children care, to expanding the beneficiaries of basic health care andto decentralizing
these services. Inthe education field, the Government will continue to give priority to the
ongoing educational reform startedin 1994, through universal baseline and elementary
education and to expanding the enrollment inhigh school. Moreover, the Government
will start a housing program for the lower-income sectors of the population, by means of
accessiblefinancing systems, mutual assistanceschemes and participation of local
governments.

                 Implementation of this paradigm requires an adequatebalancebetween the
public andthe private sectors. This impliesthe needto changethe Government structure
so as to eliminate discretionality inthe public administration, acting in a subsidiary and
supplementary manner to private initiative. The private sector will have to becomethe
motor behindeconomic growth. The Government will have to implement a predictable
andconsistent economic policy and a legal-institutional framework suitable to meet the
development needs of the country and to facilitate the proper operation of markets.

C. EconomicProspects for 2003-2004.

                 The Government is aware that the country faces increasingproblems that
spreadbeyond the mere achievement of macroeconomic stability. The 2.1% average
annual economic growth rate of the past decade proves the prolonged economic
stagnation of the country, trend that persisted inrecent years. This, together with a 2.6%,
annual population growth rate, allows to predict greater social problems. Ineffect,
poverty has worsened, both interms of geographical distribution and qualitative
characteristics, and according to the 2000-2001 HouseholdSurvey it i s already affecting
34% of the population.

                 The current administration received a country that has suffered prolonged
economic stagnation and recession duringthe past years, with weak state institutions, and
a deterioration of public finances that translatesinto a very limited ability of the
Government to comply with its commitments of external and internal debt payments.
Consequently, the government administration will be facing a financial gap of about
U$S200 million by the end of 2003.


                                             60

               Given this situation, Paraguayi s negotiating an Agreement with the IMF
for economic policy to help minimize the degree of uncertainty, sending clear signals to
the private sector andenabling said sector to becomethe genuine driver of sustained
economic growth. Inthis respect, the Government recognizesthat this can be achievedby
persevering inthe efforts of fiscal prudence and monetary and exchangeflexibility, as
well as continuing with the public sectorreforms. All this would allow for the creation of
an environment leading to greater economic growth and would make the country less
vulnerable to external shocks.

               For 2003, the real GDP growth rate i s estimated to be around 1.5% and
2.5%, with forecasts of a slight exchange appreciation that would position inflation
between 8 and 10%.The current account balance would close positive around 4% of
GDP, andthe investment levelexpectedis equivalent to 2% of GDP.The fiscal sector
would record a reduction of the fiscal deficit, establishedat around 2% of the product,
due to an increaseintax revenues anda limitedgrowthof publicexpenditure. This is
partly due to the freezing of nominalwages for the public sector in 2003, andthe new
administration's decision to interruptmost budgetary expansions.

               The projections for the mainmacroeconomic variables for 2004 allow to
envisagea more promisingpicture. It i s estimated that the product will grow by 2% to
3%, while the inflation rate would not exceedone digit, with 10%of exchangerate
devaluation. The 2004 budget anticipates aprimary surplus by 0.9% of the GDP as
compared to an estimated primary deficit for 2003 by 1% and a primary deficit of 1.8%
for 2002.

               Regarding the external debt, the Government has the firm intention to
honor the commitments assumedwith creditors, as well as to agree on renegotiation
terms, andits objective will be to try to maintain the proportionof the debt inrelation to
the product at approximately 40% (August2003).

               Itis alsoimportant to note that the document called "Inter-Institutional
Agenda for the Executive and the Legislature" was signedat the beginning of October
2003. This document has become a political agreement, resulting from the Executive's
negotiations with the leaders at the NationalCongress and the political parties
representedin said legislative body. This agendaconsiders the commitment to reducethe
fixed expenses inthe 2004 Preliminary Budget, as well as the fast presentation, prompt
consideration and discussion in Congress of the following bills: i)Public Sector Pension
Reform, ii)Administrative Reorganization andFiscal Adjustment, iii)New Customs
Code, iv) PublicDebt Restructuring, and v) Reform of Public Banking, Reformof the
State and of State-owned Companies, as detailed below.

D.Short-Term Measures

               Inorder to face the increasing lack of liquidity of public resources,
measureshavebeen adopted inorder to minimize the levels of public expenditure and to



                                            61

increasetax revenues, aiming at reducing the 2003 fiscal deficit. Interms of the
expenditures incurred inby the state, priority has been given to the agricultural campaign
and social expenses amidst strong budgetary restrictions (reduction of employeesunder
contract, freezing of salaries, elimination of non-prioritybudgetary expansions). Tax
collection has increasedsignificantly since August of this year (33% of nominal monthly
increase), largely exceeding the 2002 collection levels. This is accountedfor by the
removalof bureaucratic intermediation at Customs, to the incipient monitoring
reorganization of the Finance tax departments, and to increasedpublic confidence inthe
current administration.

                  Inaddition, andinrelation to the public debt inarrearsandwith short
terms of maturity, instances of renegotiation of this debt havebeen set up with several
creditors. Inthe first place, debts due and to become due have beenrenegotiated with 14
domestic private banks (U$S80 million), and the past due debt with construction
companies, subcontractorsof the state, i s inprocessof renegotiation (U$S38 million). As
a result of this, payment of these debts hasbeenrescheduledto start in2004, ending in
2008. Inaddition, committees will be set up inthe short term to renegotiate the floating
debt with local suppliers andthe bilateral external debt (with foreign governments and
banks).

E.ProgramofStructuralReforms

                  Major structural reforms are still pending implementation, which the
current administration is beginning to undertake:

    -
    ---- Reforms of Public Administration
         Reformof the Public and Private Financial Sector
         Reformof the Tax System
         Reformof Public Pensions(Fiscal Funds)
         Reformof State-Owned Companies
    -    Program of Fightagainst Poverty
    -    Competitiveness Program


         Publicadministrationreform
                  As mentioned before, efforts havebeenmadeinthe recent pastto reform
the State, but there remain serious problems. The increaseinthe number ofjobs inthe
public sector has been dramatic, as well as of expensesinsalaries, which accounts for the
mainrole that the personal services category plays inthe current fiscal crisis. The
distribution of functions between the Ministries andother Stateentities i s not clear, and
there i s a proliferationof entities that fragment the Government's efforts. Insuch respect,
some major actions have beendesignedto improve public management.

                 Inthe first place, apublic servantscensus aimed at detectingthe exact
numberof legal andnon-legalemployees of the ParaguayanState, their level of training,
employment categories andsalaries i s under way. The census -that will be ready by
December 2003- will provide updated andreliable information for the development of


                                              62

policies, standards and organization models, contributing to achieveexcellence inthe
management of Stateresources. Inrelation to this, the list of servants i s beingpurged
through actions aimed at eliminating double and triple salaries inpublic administration.
Studies are also being performed on public servants training programs, with international
cooperation.

                Similarly, and inthe specific case of the Ministry of Finance, cooperation
has beenrequestedfrom the World Bank to make this institutiona Ministry of
Excellence, with qualifiedprofessionals and high-quality services. All these actions are
under implementation since the creation of a State-ResourcesManagement Planning and
Rationalization Committee, which involves the Ministry of Finance, the Technical
Secretariatof Planning andthe Secretariatof Public Office. The functions of this
Committee aim at establishing a Statemanagementmodel that will enable professional
development of the top and middlemanagement of public administration, and at
improving administrative centralization and operational decentralization of public
management. Besides, this Committee allows for coordination of external cooperation to
Paraguay.

                Specifically under the Ministry of Finance, agreementshavebeen signed
with organizations of the civil society, with a view to enable controlby citizens of the
managementof this ministry, andthe use of state tax resources, as well as an agreement
with the Ministry of Education and Culture to develop the citizens' awarenesson the
importance of payingtaxes andreducing evasion. These efforts will be channeled
through the creation of a Unit of Transparency and CitizenParticipation inthe Ministry
of Finance, to be inforce before the end of 2003.

                To achieve greater transparencyinpublic administration, the Government
i s encouraging new measuresto fight against corruption, such as the voluntary disclosure
of the sworn property statementby the President andhis Cabinet members inSeptember
2003. Inthe same manner, the Government supports the drafting and enactment of alaw
providing for the disclosure of sworn property statements by all public officials, thus
increasing the control and monitoring measures. Besides, the Government i s promotinga
law against money laundering, establishing the chain of responsibilities within the
Executive and allowing the prosecution of money laundering as an independent crime.

                As a generalframework for the managementof the Stateresources,for the
first time, there i s a budget for programs for 2004, with clear objectives and result
indicators. Besides, a FinancialManagement Action Plan i s beingdesigned in
collaboration with the World Bank andthe Inter-American Development Bank, which
should be started by the endof 2003.

                A significant step givenin2003 has beenthe regulation for the new
ProcurementLaw, as well as the creation of a Public PurchasingUnit.Inthis relation, a
Public PurchasingAction Plani s beingproduced. Several of the measuresbuilt into it are
underimplementation, includingtraining for public officials and civil society on the




                                             63

enforcement of the law andits regulation, the development of standardizedbidding
specifications, and the launching of an electronic page with informationon procurement.

                 The Government's agendaalso includes speedingupthe startupof the
Exporting One-Stop, with the aim of simplifying the procedures related to exports and to
promote this fundamental activity for the achievement of a higher rate of economic
growth. Inthis respect, a Single Exporter Registry i s beingdesignedto be operational by
the end of 2003, which i s a key stage for the eventual operation of the Exporting
ProcedureSimplification Center.

                 Due to the numerous delays inthe execution of investments projects with
external cooperation, the Public Investment Control Unit was recently createdunder the
Ministry of Finance to perform an evaluation and qualitative and quantitative controls of
the state's investment programs andto make recommendations to optimize the
performance levels. The fundamental task of the Unit i s to follow up the advances and
limitations of the projects, inorder to implement immediate corrective actions.

                 Inthe mediumterm, the state faces other challengesframedunderthe
second-generationreforms. Insuch sense, external control mechanisms should be defined
for the agencies of the Executive, for the effective compliance of their goals; greater
participation by citizens inthe control and measurement of results, and the development
of an adequate civil service, implyingpromotionand dismissal policies, and qualification
of human resources.


        Financialreform
                 Inthe financial sector, the intentionis to strengthenthe state's ability to
regulate the financial system andto prevent the contagion of the crisis, using risk-sharing
and loss-reduction methods. As far as the concrete actions to that end, there i s a bill to be
approved providingfor the creation of the Fundof Deposit Guaranteesand Bank
Resolutions, the approval by the Central Bank of Resolution 8, regulating the rating of
credits, as well as the consideration by Congress of a bill on a new Law of Banks and
modifications to the Organization Charter of the Central Bank.

                 Inrelation to the financial reform, apendingissueis the reformof state
financial institutions, which presently display conditions of insolvency, poor allocation of
subsidies andrules of the game that are no incentive for good practices. This reform
would comprise the NationalBank for Development (BancoNacional de Fomento),the
Cattle Fund(Fondo Ganadero),the IndustrialDevelopment Fund(Fondo de Desarrollo
Industrial),the NationalHousingCouncil (ConsejoNacional de la Vivienda),the
NationalHousingBank (BancoNacional de la Vivienda),Agricultural Qualification
Credit (Cre'ditoAgricola de Habilitacio'n) and the RuralDevelopment Fund(Fondode
Desarrollo Campesino).The public banking bill is almost finished, andit will soon be
sent to the NationalCongress. The purpose of this law i s to unify the financial institutions
of the state, to create a first-instance bankingsector for small producers, and to create a
second-instancebankingsector to strengthenthe bankingsystem andto promote the
national development through competitive interest rates and terms.


                                              64

                 At the same time, there are major adjustments still required for the private
financial system, and they are associatedwith the prevention of high costs for the state in
case of financial crisis, such as strengthening the regulations of the financial system, from
the public supervision agency.


         Tax reform
                 With the tax reformand other relatedmeasures, the intentionis to
strengthen the country's competitiveness through low and generalized taxes, a strong tax
administration and awareness, and equal distribution and efficient allocation of public
revenues. Inrelation to the measuresto be implemented inthe tax arena, the enactment
by congress of the Law of Administrative Reorganization andFiscal Adjustment would
be a significant advance. The billincludes several elements of importance for the tax
reform, such as the eliminationof numerous tax exemptions, and therefore the expansion
of the taxpayer base, thus increasing fiscal equity. Inparticular, the measurespropounded
by the bill include:

        Extension of the base for the Value AddedTax (VAT) through the generalization
         of the VAT acrossthe sectors of agriculture and cattle-breeding, services and
         current payersof the UniqueTax,
        Eliminationof the majority of exemptions,
         Increaseof the selective tax on consumption of alcohol, cigarettes and luxury

         Reduction of income tax for companies from 30 to lo%, andexpansion of the
         goods,

         taxable base,

        rate of lo%, beingsmall businesses exempted, with the elimination of the Tax on
         Incorporation of agriculture and cattle-breeding activities to the income tax, at a

         Agriculture and Cattle-Breeding (IMAGRO),
         Creation of the tax on PersonalIncome.

                 Likewise, an increase i s intended of the selective tax on gas oil
consumption, from 20% to 26%, for the beginning of 2004.


        Pension system reform
                 With respectto pensions, the increasing financial problems, inequities and
distortions inthe labor market have ledthe country to introduce a deep reform of the
public pension system. The urgent character of this reformi s increasingly evident, as the
annual deficits that have to be covered with fiscal resources have shown an annual
nominal growth rate of around 31% during the last four years.

                 TheExecutive has submitted to the consideration of the National Congress
a bill for the reform of public pensions (Fiscal Fund) aimed at rationalizingthe
contributions andthe ages of retirement for the public sector, to overcome an increasing
deficit of this fund, which inturn becomes the maincause for the deficit of public




                                              65

accounts. The bill is designedto reform the Fundandto ensure its sustainability by
means of the following mainmeasures:

    --  Increaseof the contribution rate,
        Modification of the requirements to obtain ordinary retirement, including an
        increase of minimumage and seniority, andrestriction of extraordinary retirement

    -   to individualswho are at least 50 years old and have 20 years of service,
        Establishing as base salary for the payment of retirements the average of the last
        10years,

                Inthe caseof retirements inthe private sector (IPS), the National
Government created a Group of Evaluation and Recommendation for the IPS, with the
following objectives: i)produce recommendations towards the strengthening and reform
of the institutionthrough greater operational transparency and efficiency and social
responsibility; ii)beginin2004 the design of the necessaryreforms of the social security
system; iii)implement as from 2005 the restructuring of the social security system.


        Reformof state-ownedcompanies
                The National Government i s also designing an operative coordination of
the State-OwnedCompanies capable o f i)producing abusinessdevelopment plan; ii)
developing efficiency, profitability and capitalization indicators for the state-owned
companies, and iii)designing a system allowing the participation of the private sector,
through mechanismsof capitalization, outsourcing or others.

                Besides, the NationalGovernment will work inthe implementation of
optimum adjustmentsfor the rates of the services these companies provide so as to
prevent imbalances inthe finances of the companies, though saidadjustments should not
represent very highcosts for the users of these services.

                Finally, the NationalGovernment will implement measuresto ensure a
greater transparencyinthe managementof state-ownedcompanies, bothinterms of
external audits and a greater public knowledge of the financial data of these companies.


        Fight against poverty


                Inrelationto social problems andthe worsening of povertylevels, a
Strategy to Fightagainst Poverty has beendesignedthat will require the involvement of
the economic and social agents inthe government administration, inconjunction with the
organizations of the civil society. The implementation of this strategy will be assistedby
the recently createdSocial Cabinet, that on the one hand intendsto coordinate all actions
by the different state agencies that work in the social field and to design policy measures
with the Economic Team of the NationalGovernment, considering that the Minister of
Finance i s a member of the Social Cabinet.




                                            66

                 The guiding principles for the design andimplementation of the strategy
to fight against poverty andextreme poverty include: better targeting of actions to be
performed, and precise identification of beneficiary sectors and groups; integrality,
producing results by focusing the actions on the target population, rather than on each
project inparticular; and active involvement of local governments and civil society,
allowingthe structuring of autonomousevaluation mechanismsfor the progress of
projects and their results.


         Competitivenessprogram


                 With the purpose of modifyingthe present economic modelandto
promote product growth, the NationalGovernment has defined as one of its main
prioritiesthe country's exporting industrialization, through agro-industrialization andthe
creation of productive chains to the interior of the country andthe mainMERCOSUR
partners.For such purpose, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce has designeda
program of industrialdevelopment through the support of small and mediumenterprises,
the establishment of a network of national exporters, the promotionof quality standards
and the fight against piracy and forging.

                 Inthe caseof small andmediumenterprises, the Ministry of Industryand
Commerce (MIC) is intending to revise their regulatory framework to adjust it to be more
flexible to the operations of this kindof business-representing the majority of the
private sector inthe country-and to facilitate their expansion. At the same time, the MIC
i s intending to intensify the creation of exporting consortia basedon the SME's andtheir
partnering for scale production. Iti s also an objective of the MIC to leveragethe
agricultural dynamics of the country's border regions (soya, wheat, corn, beef) to foster a
greater industrialization of the main export products and to create productive chains with
Brazil within the Mercosur.

                 On its part, the Ministry of Agriculture and Cattle-Breeding (MACB) has
undertaken a program of diversification of the agricultural production and improvement
of health and quality standards for exports. Inthis respect, the MACB i s promoting
training programs on agricultural technology, marketing and landtreatment (soil and
water basin preservation), as well as the technique of agriculture-industry linking.
Likewise, the MACB intendsto support the cattle-breedingproducers with the
consolidation of the advances on genetics and health reachedinthe country, and fostering
programs to enhance meat and milkproductivity. Inthe area of forestry, the MACB
intends to demand a more rational managementof nativeforests and to start a much
broader reforestation process than the program currently in force.

                Inrelation to the physical infrastructure, the programs are designedto
facilitate the exit of and access to national production, as well as a greater physical
integration with the region, particularly with Brazil, through new roadconnections with
the neighboring country and main partner, andthrough the construction and completion
of roadsections comprising the transoceanic corridors. The Ministry of Public Works



                                              67

will undertakeprograms designedto increase the construction of rural and village roads,
andto achievedecentralization inthis kindof infrastructure works, so fundamental to
take the agricultural production out to the internal and external markets. Inaddition, there
are plans to pave several roads connecting regions inthe interior of the country and
connecting isolated regions with the Brazilianborder, both inthe East and the North
West areas of the national territory. Inthe case of the Western Region or Chaco, two
pavement works have beenstartedto complete the connection of the country with the
portson the Pacific.

F.Conclusion

                Thelengthy recessionthe country has beengoing through is the result of
the exhaustion of an economic modelthat does no longer promote growth, and which has
thus significantly diminishedthe well beingof the Paraguayanpopulation. This is in
addition to highlevels of irregularities, corruption andinefficiency inthe Paraguayan
state andthe serious consequencesthey entailed for the fiscal accounts of the
government. The current administration, inaugurated two months ago, has begun
designing medium-term policies to achieve fiscal sustainability, to improve the
managementof public administration and to reactivate the economy. At the same time, it
has implemented short-term measuresto face the increasingilliquidity of the national
treasury, against the background of strong budgetary restrictions.

                The credit assistancethat is beingrequestedfrom the World Bank is to
face the lack of liquidity problemof the Paraguayan state, but also to support the
sustainability medium-term program that the NationalGovernment i s proposing. Insuch
sense, the NationalGovernment is currently negotiating a stand-by loan with the
International Monetary Fund(MI?)       for a term of 15 months that will be fundamentally
certifying the actions planned by the NationalGovernment to recover fiscal and monetary
stability andto increasethe payment capacity to honor the commitments of the public
debt incurred. Inaddition to that, the NationalGovernment is also negotiating with the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) the granting of social protection funding
complementing the efforts to solve short andmedium-term problems inParaguay's
government finance.

                The support by the World Bank and other multilateralagencies will be of
vital importance in the current circumstances and will certainly be the basis from where
to start the structural reforms of the public administration and to resume economic
growth inParaguay.



                                       Dionisio Borda
                                     Minister of Finance
                                  Governor for Paraguay




                                              68

    Annex IV: Paraguayat a Glance

                                                Paraguayat a Glance                                                            11/I8/03

                                                                   Lath        Lower-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               America       mlddle-
                                                      Paraguay   & Carlb.      Income     Developmentdiamond.
2002
 Population,mid-year (millions)                              5.8      527        2,411                   Lifeexpectancy
GNi percapita(Atlas method, US$)                           1,170   3,280         1,390
GNi (Atlas method, US$billions)                              6.4   1,727         3,352

Average annualgrowth, 199g02                                                                                   T
Population(%)                                                2.6       1.5         1.o
Laborforce (%)                                               3.2      2.2          1.2    GNI

Mostrecent estlmate(latest year available, 1996-02)                                       per
                                                                                          capita
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)              34
Urbanpopulation @ of totalpopulation)                        57        76           49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                               71        71           69                          i
infantmortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                        25        27           30
Chiidmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                                    9          11          Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)            78        86           81
illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                              6       11           13
Grossprimaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)          111                              -
                                                                      130          ill               Paraguay
    Male                                                    113       131          111               Lower-middleincomegroup
    Female                                                   110      128          110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSandLONG-TERMTRENDS                                                                                                   I
                                                1982       1992     2001         2002
GDP (US$billions)                                                                         Economlcratios'
                                                  5.4        6.4       6.8         5.6
Grossdomestic investment/GDP                     25.6      22.9      19.8         18.6
Exports of goods and services/GDP                12.1      28.1      27.4         33.6                       Trade
Grossdomestic savings/GDP                        18.0      12.4      10.8         13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                       19.2      12.7      15.7         16.9
Currentaccount balancdGDP                        -9.3       -0.9      -4.1         1.7
interest payments/GDP                             0.8        3.6       1.8         1.9
TotaldebffGDP                                    24.0      25.3      41.2         48.4
Totaldebt service/exports                        17.9      24.2      14.2         11.6
Presentvalue of debt/GDP
Presentvalue of debffexports

                                     1982-92 1992-02       2001     2002      2002-06                                                  I
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                     3.3       1.5        2.7      -2.2         1.5        -Paraguay
GDP percapita                           0.2      -1.0        0.1      -4.8         -1.1       -Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services           12.7      -8.0       -0.4       0.1         3.7


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                      25.9      24.5      29.0         29.4
Industry                                         26.0      25.9      18.7         18.2
   Manufacturing                                 16.4      16.5      14.1         14.0    a
Services                                         48.1      49.6      52.3         52.4    :::
Privateconsumption                               74.9      81.1      79.6         76.8    .; 1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      7.1        6.5      9.6          9.6
Importsof goods andsewices                       19.8      38.6      36.4         38.6                -GDI            &GDP


                                                                                                                                       II
                                             1982-92 1992-02       2001          2002
(average annualgrowth)                                                                    Growthof exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                                       3.7        2.1      2.2          1.4    loT
Industry                                          3.4        2.8      -9.8        -7.4    0
  Manufacturing                                   0.7        0.8      -6.0        -0.7   -10
Services                                          3.1        0.5      -0.6         0.2   -20
Privateconsumption                                3.4        2.4      7.8         -4.1   -%I
Generalgovernmentconsumption                     6.3         3.3   -11.0          -4.4
Grossdomestic investment                         3.8        -2.5   -16.0          -7.3
importsof goodsand services                      12.3      -4.1      -1.6        -15.0



* The diamondsshowfour key indicatorsinthe country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. if data are missing,the diamondwill
   be incomplete.




                                                                 69

Annex IV. Paraguay at a Glance (continued)



 PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982    1992     2001     2002
 Domestic prices                                                             Inflation (%)

 (% change)                                                                  2o T                                               I
 Consumer prices                                   15.1       7.3     14.6
 Implicit GDP defiatot                       5.1   14.7        1.7    12.0

 Government finance
 (% of GDP, includes current grants)
 Current tevenue                                   13.4      17.2     16.0             87    88      99       00       01     02
 Current budget balance                              2.1       1.6     0.9
 Overall surplusideficit                            -0.6      -1.1    -3.2            -GDP       deflator   - D ' C P I


 TRADE
                                           1982    1992     2001     2002
 (US$ millions)                                                               Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
 Total exports (fob)                              2.118     1.E63    1,917   5,000 T
   Soy products                                     137       356     341
   Cotton                                           209        84       38
   Manufactures                                   1,461     1,210    1,274
 Total imports (cif)                              1,988     2,499   2,162
   Food                                             751     1,032     877
   Fuel and energy                                  145       181      154
   Capital goods                                    404       491     418
 Export price index (1995=100)                                                       se   97    98      99    00       01

 Import price index (7995=100)                                                            mExports             Imports
 Terms of trade (1995=fOO)

 BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982    1992     2001     2002
 (US$ millions)                                                              Current account balance to GDP (%)
 Exports of goods and services              670   2,362     1,876    1,878                                                      I
 Imports of goods and services             1,209  2,453     2,495   2,159    2
 Resource balance                          -539     -91      -619    -281     1
                                                                             0
 Net income                                   32    -28       175       95   1

 Net current transfers                         2     62       168     280    2
                                                                             3
 Current account balance                   -506     -57      -278       94   4
                                                                             5
 Financing items (net)                      382    -303       327      -12   e
 Changes in net reserves                     124    360       -49      -82   7
                                                                             8
 Memo:
 Reserves including gold (US$ mil/ionsJ             614       723     641
 Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$J          136.0 1,500.0  4,105.9  5,715.9

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982    1992     2001     2002
 (US$ millions)                                                              Composition of ZOO1 debt (US$ miil.)
 Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,298  1,633     2,820   2,706
   IBRD                                      147    213       205     216
   IDA                                       47      39        27       25               0 462         A '058 27
 Total debt service                          142    626       266     218
   IBRD                                       16     62        25       26
   IDA                                         1      1         2        2
 Composition of net resource flows
   Official grants                            6      43                                                                D 813

   Official creditors                        91     -84          1      -7
   Private creditors                        152    -166       -29      -30         F 807

   Foreign direct investment                 37     116        82       -8
   Portfolio equity                           0       0         0      -30                           E:406
 World Bank program
   Commitments                               99      52         0        9   A IBRD                               E Bilateral
   Disbursements                             44      10        27       14   B IDA       D -Other multilateral    F Private
                                                                                                                    .-
   Principal repayments                       6      43        15       17   C IMF
                                                                                ---                               G .Short-term
   Net flows                                 37     -33        12       -3
   interest payments                         10      21        11       11
   Net transfers                             27     -54         0      -14


                                                                                                                        11/16/03




                                                        70

Annex V: Paraguay Key Economic Indicators
                          -




National accounts
(as % GDP at current
 market prices)

Gross domesticproduct        100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
  Agriculture                27.4    28.1    27.0  29.0    29.4   30.2   28.5  28.5   28.5
  Industry                   18.0    20.1    20.4  18.7    18.2   17.8   18.2  18.5   19.0
  Services                   54.6    51.8    52.6  52.3    52.4   52.0   53.3  53.0   52.5

Total Consumption            81.1    81.6    82.7  85.0    85.3   86.6   84.2  84.0   83.5
Gross domestic fixed         22.9    23.0    21.8  19.8    18.6   19.0   19.0  20.0   20.0
investment
Exports (GNFS)               28.2    26.8    30.1  27.4    33.6   39.6   38.1  38.6   38.9
Imports (GNFS)               45.1    35.5    37.1  36.4    38.6   42.1   43.8  44.4   45.1

Gross domestic savings         6.0     9.3   12.6   10.8   13.6   10.4   11.3   11.9   12.8
Gross nationalsavings        21.0    20.9    19.7   15.7   16.9   14.7   18.0   18.7   19.4

Memorandum items
Gross domesticproduct        8598    7741    7722  6848    5594  5327   5301   5501   5732
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per   1810    1650    1520  1380    1180    870    880   900    930
capita (US$,Atlas method)

Realannualgrowthrates
(%,calculated from 1982
 prices)
  Gross domesticproduct at  -0.4%   0.5%    -0.3%  2.7%   -2.2%   1.5%  2.3%   2.8%   3.2%
  market prices

Real annualper capita
growthrates (%, calculated
from 1982prices)
  Gross domesticproduct at  -3.0%   -2.1%   -2.9%  0.1%   -4.8%  -1.1%  -0.3%  0.2%   0.6%
  market prices
  Total consumption         -3.2%   -2.4%   -3.0%  0.8%   -6.4%  -5.1%  0.1%   1.4%   1.2%




                                                71

Annex V. Key Economic Indicators (continued)




BalanceofPayments
(US$m)
 Exports (GNFS)                    3548    2307    2322    1876    1878    2112   2020     2124    2231
  Imports (GNFS)                   3941    2750    2864    2495    2159    2245   2320     2440    2584
 Resource balance                  -393    -443    -542    -619    -281    -133    -300    -316    -353
 Current accountbalance            -160    -165    -163    -278      94     228      52      74      36
 (after official capital grants)

 Long-term loans (net)            141.3   494.7    -12.5   -87.6    48.9     61     130      76     138
 Change inreserves                 -23.4  -116.7  -216.0   -49.0   -82.0  184.0    46.0   145.0    79.0

Memorandum items
Resource balance(% of             -4.6%   -5.7%   -7.0%   -9.0%   -5.0%   -2.5%   -5.7%   -5.7%   -6.2%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annualgrowthrates
(YR a2 prices)
 Merchandise exports                     -35.0%    0.7%  -19.2%    0.1%   12.5%   -4.4%    5.1%    5.0%
 (FOB)
 Merchandiseimports                      -30.2%    4.1%  -12.9%  -13.5%    4.0%   3.3%     5.2%    5.9%
 (CIF)

Publicfinance
(as % of GDPat current
market prices)
 Revenues                           15.6    16.3    15.4    17.2    16.0   16.1    16.5     17.2   17.5
 Expenditures                       16.8   20.1     19.9    18.5    19.2   17.6    11.6     17.5    17.6

 Current account surplus (+)      -1.9%   -2.1%   -2.1%   -4.0%    1.1%    4.3%    1.O%    1.3%    0.6%
  or deficit (-)
 Capital expenditure                 3.1     5.4     3.7     3.0     4.1     2.7     3.0     3.2     3.3

Monetaryindicators
 M2/GDP (at current market          31.3   35.9     33.8    37.1
 prices)
 Growthof M 2 (%)                    9.9    18.2     4.8    16.4
 Private sector credit growth      -53.2  457.3     43.4    84.2
 total credit growth (a)

Priceindices(YRS2      =loo)
 Consumer price index             11.5%    6.8%    8.9%    7.3%   14.6%    7.5%   7.0%     6.0%    5.0%
 (% growth rate)
 GDP deflator                    12.4%     2.5%   11.8%    1.7%   14.6%   13.3%   7.0%     6.0%    5.0%
 (% growth rate)




                                                       72

 Annex VI: Paraguay Key Exposure Indicators
                               -




 Totaldebt outstandingand           2125    2641   2519    2359    2481    2654    2507    2552    2470
 disbursed(TDO) (US$m)


 Net disbursements(US$m)              28     476      29     -29     -37     -60     -85     -35     -30


 Totaldebt service (TDS)             206    185     262     266     218     259     224     215     203
 (us$m)"


 Debt anddebt serviceindicators
 (%)
   TDOlXGS                         59.9%  114.5%  108.5%  125.7%  132.1%  125.7%  128.0%  120.2%  110.7%
   TDOIGDP                         24.7%   34.1%  32.6%   34.4%   44.4%   49.8%   48.8%   46.4%   43.1%
   TDSlXGS                         5.8%    8.0%    11.3%   14.2%  #REF!   12.3%   11.1%   10.1%    9.1%


   ConcessionaVTDO                  32.3    27.8    27.9    28.1    27.6


 IBRDexposureindicators(%)

.  IBRDDSlpublic DS                 16.2    17.5    11.3      9.3   11.9    17.4    16.7    17.1    17.2
   PreferredcreditorDSIpublic       51.7    62.9    43.2    41.6    58.6
   DS (%)
   IBRDDSlXGS                         0.9     1 4     13      1.3     1 4     2.1     1.9     1.7     1.6
   IBRDTDO(US$m)                    165     182     201     205     216     238     273     311     328
    Of whichpresentvalue of
    guarantees(US$m)
   Shareof IBRDportfolio (%)          0.1     0.1     0.2    0.2      0.2    0.2      0.2     0.3
   IDA TDO (US$m)                     31      30      28      27      25      24      22      20      19



  Loans
  Equityandquasi-equity


 MIGA




                                                  73


3..
H




       75


