                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 32489

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (FSLT-72100)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                         FOR AN

                ECONOMIC RECOVERY STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                       June 27, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 2005)

                      Currency Unit = Guarani (G$)
                                 G1 = US$ 0.00016
                              US$ 1 = G 6150

                             FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1    December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CGR     Comptroller General
        (Contralor General de la República)
CISNI   Consejo Impulsor del Sistema Nacional de Integridad
CY      Calendar Year
DGCP    Directorate General of Public Procurement
        (Dirección General de Compras Públicas)
ERL     Economic Recovery Loan
FSAL    Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
IMF     International Monetary Fund
ISC     Excise tax
        (Impuesto Selectivo al Consumo)
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
SBA     Stand-By Arrangement
SIAF    Integrated Financial Management Information System
        (Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera)
SINARH  National Human Resource Information System
        (Sistema Nacional de Recursos Humanos)
UCIP    Central Public Investment Unit
        (Unidad Central de Inversión Pública)
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
VAT     Value-Added Tax

                     Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                   Country Director      Axel van Trotsenburg
           Sector Manager/Director       Mauricio Carrizosa/Ernesto May
                    Lead Economist       James Parks
                     Task Manager:       Zeinab Partow

                                         PARAGUAY
                                PY Economic Recovery Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   5
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         6
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 26
8. Lessons Learned                                                               28
9. Partner Comments                                                              31
10. Additional Information                                                       33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             43
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             45
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                51
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            53

Project ID: P086543                                                  Project Name: PY Economic Recovery Loan
Team Leader: Zeinab Partow                                           TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PY Economic Recovery Loan                                L/C/TF Number: FSLT-72100
   Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (75%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (15%); Banking (10%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (P); Tax policy and
                            administration (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S);
                            Other accountability/anti-corruption (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/08/2003                                     Effective: 12/24/2003                12/24/2003
     Appraisal: 10/27/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/16/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:        Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Zeinab Partow                                  Zeinab Partow
ICR Primary Author:             Cecilia Zanetta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: The objectives of the Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment loan need to be assessed in the
context of a long-term decline in economic performance and poverty indicators and the election of a
reformist Administration in 2003. From the late 1990s onward, Paraguay's economy experienced a
sustained decline, with per capita incomes falling from US$1,810 to US$1,170 between 1998 and 2002
(World Bank Atlas methodology) and poverty reaching 46 percent of the population in 2002. Worsening
economic conditions were the result of lagging reforms, political instability and the inefficiencies of a
highly informal and corrupt system. Poor domestic performance was also exacerbated by unfavorable
international events, such as declining export prices for soybeans and cotton and adverse economic
developments affecting Paraguay's main trading partners, including the Brazilian devaluation in 1999 and
the collapse of Argentina's economy in December 2001. Economic conditions continued to decline in
2002, with GDP falling by 2.3 percent and inflation rising to double digits. Public accounts deteriorated
sharply, with a deficit reaching 3.1 percent of GDP and the stock of public external debt rising to nearly 50
percent of GDP from 33 percent the year before, largely as a result of the devaluation of the guarani. Given
Paraguay's almost complete lack of access to domestic or international financing, the country's economic
outlook was grim. With a financial gap of almost US$200 million looming in 2003, the possibility of
default was becoming increasingly real.

The election of President Nicanor Duarte Frutos in April 2003 opened a window of opportunity to reverse
Paraguay's economic decline and the ongoing deterioration of social indicators. Recognizing the need to
address Paraguay's long-entrenched problems, the new administration articulated a clear reform agenda
that focused on five key areas: (i) correcting fiscal imbalances; (ii) restoring confidence in the state and its
institutions; (iii) fostering economic growth with social and fiscal responsibility; (iv) reducing poverty; and
(v) promoting greater civic participation. After its electoral victory, the new administration moved swiftly,
successfully building a coalition of support for its reform agenda. It also sought the active support of the
international financial community, including the IMF, IDB and the World Bank, to help it implement its
agenda and ease the strong financial pressure that endangered the country's ability to meet its financial
obligations in the short term.

Working in close coordination with its partners, the Bank responded promptly to the newly elected
administration's request by preparing a Policy Options Report (Report No. 25894-PA) that analyzed the
sectors and themes in which the Bank had previously worked on and formulated policy recommendations
for the new administration; this report was presented to the recently elected administration in June 2003,
prior to its formal inauguration. As there was significant coincidence between the views presented in this
report and those of the administration, the Bank proceeded to the preparation of a new Country Assistance
Strategy (Report No. 27341-PA; CAS) and the Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No.
72100-PA; ERL). Demonstrating agility and responsiveness on the part of the Bank, the new CAS and the
ERL were presented to the Board and received approval on December 16, 2003, exactly four months after
the new administration took office.
The ERL was intended to support a package of key actions and reforms aimed at bringing the fiscal
accounts to a sustainable path in order to enable the attainment of higher growth rates, a return to positive
per capita economic growth and a significant reduction in poverty. Specifically, the operation provided
financial support to the government's short and medium-term program of actions and policy reforms in the
areas of fiscal stabilization and deficit reduction, tax policy, public administration and anti-corruption
measures, financial sector reforms and pension reform (see Annex 1.a: Matrix of Policy Actions).




                                                       - 2 -

Prepared in conjunction with the new 2003 CAS, the operation was fully consistent with its objectives. By
supporting reforms in the areas of taxes, pension and improved governance, the ERL provided direct
support to two of the four principal objectives identified in the CAS: (i) fiscal and financial sector
stabilization and (ii) improved governance and transparency in public administration. In turn, by supporting
these objectives, the operation laid the foundations to achieve the other two objectives identified in the
CAS: (iii) achieving sustained growth, particularly in rural areas where poverty is most concentrated and
deepest; and (iv) fostering social inclusion. The first operation in the Bank's new strategy, the ERL set the
stage for renewed Bank involvement in Paraguay, as a `door opener' in the sequence of operations
envisaged in the framework of the new CAS.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The loan's objectives remained unchanged during its implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The operation focused on five main components of the government's short and medium-term reform
program: (a) fiscal stabilization; (b) tax policy; (c) public administration and anti-corruption; (d) financial
sector; and (e) public-sector pension fund. The operation was conceived as a structural adjustment loan for
US$30 million to be disbursed in a single tranche. A set of policy actions was identified as conditionality
for loan effectiveness. A second set of benchmark indicators was identified to assess the continuing
progress made in the implementation of the various components after the loan's formal closing (see Annex
1.a: Matrix of Policy Actions and Annex 1.b: Key Performance and Monitoring Indicators).

The main components were defined as follows:

a. Fiscal Stabilization: The deterioration of Paraguay's macroeconomic conditions was clearly reflected
in the chronically high public deficits--reaching up to 4.3 percent of GDP in 2000--and the rising stock of
external public debt--from US$1.6 billion in 1999 (26.9 percent of GDP) to US$2.3 billion in 2002 (42.9
percent of GDP), equivalent to a 42.8 percent increase in dollar terms in only four years. The lack of fiscal
stability, in turn, translated into rising interest rates, making it increasingly difficult for Paraguay to meet
its financial obligations, including the timely payment of public sector salaries. As reflected in the
government's Letter of Development Policy, the new administration recognized the urgency to revert the
deterioration of the country's fiscal situation, assigning it a top priority. In this framework, the ERL
supported a set of immediate actions taken by the new administration aimed at stabilizing the country's
fiscal accounts as a first step towards medium-term fiscal sustainability. Specifically, these measures
included a freeze on public sector wages, the withdrawal of budgetary supplements presented to Congress
by the previous administration and the presentation to Congress of a budget for 2004 consistent with the
objectives of narrowing the fiscal deficit and attaining a primary surplus (see Annex 1.a: Matrix of Policy
Actions). At the same time, the IDB's operation included provisions to ensure that expenditure cuts did not
affect social spending.

b. Tax Policy: Increasing tax revenues was a central pillar in the strategy adopted by the new
administration to achieve financial stability in the medium term. At the operational level, the administration
embarked upon an all-out war on tax evasion and corruption. With evasion estimated at over 50 percent of
actual collections, the rewards from improving tax and customs administration without increasing tax rates
were potentially substantial. At the policy level, the administration built support among the country's main
economic interest groups for a tax policy reform aimed at reducing the level of informality in the economy,
expanding the tax base and eliminating the web of loopholes and exceptions that plagued the old tax code.



                                                          - 3 -

In this context, the ERL supported the presentation to Congress of the government's tax reform bill. It also
supported an increase in the excise tax (Impuesto Selectivo al Consumo, ISC) on diesel fuel (gasoil) from
14 percent to 26 percent, a rate more in line with those of other Mercosur countries, where taxes on diesel
are in the range of 30 percent (see Annex a.1: Matrix of Policy Actions).

c. Public Administration and Anti-Corruption: Promoting greater transparency, accountability, and
effectiveness in the public sector was another key objective of the government's reform program. In this
context, the ERL provided support for important measures aimed at enhancing transparency and fighting
corruption, such as the implementation of a new public procurement law and a financial management
action plan that strengthens independent reviews and audits (for details, see Annex 1). Likewise, this
component supported measures aimed at promoting greater efficiency and effectiveness in the management
of public resources, including the shift to a national budget using the programs-and-results methodology
and the adoption of a new Customs Code (see Annex 1.a: Matrix of Policy Actions). These measures
constitute important steps toward creating a climate of improved governance and greater public sector
credibility, essential for a well-functioning state.

d. Financial Sector: Paraguay's financial system exhibited increasing vulnerability from the mid-1990s
onward, which, in turn, eroded fiscal stability and the availability of credit for the private sector. Between
the mid-1990s and early 2000s, the government and the Central Bank intervened in four banking crises,
during which a number of financial institutions--accounting for approximately 35 percent of the financial
system--were liquidated. The government's intervention caused the guaraní to weaken, as the Central
Bank used its reserves to rescue insolvent banks. Overall outlays amounted to almost 12 percent of GDP.
In addition, the financial sector's problems have resulted in a reduction of credit available to the private
sector. As a result, strengthening Paraguay's financial sector became a top priority for the new
administration, which embarked upon an ambitious program to reform and modernize the laws regulating
private and state-owned banks. In the framework of the government's program, the ERL supported the
approval of a law creating the Deposit Guarantee and Bank Resolution Fund, aimed at increasing the use of
market-oriented risk-sharing methods while reducing the fiscal cost to the state in the event of turbulence or
crisis in the sector (see Annex 1.a: Matrix of Policy Actions). This reform corrects a crucial structural
weakness of Paraguay's financial system and paves the way for a stronger financial system that can play a
key role in resource allocation and private sector development.

e. Public Sector Pension System: Paraguay's public pension system--the Caja Fiscal--covers
contributing pension plans of public-sector employees, including those in the central administration,
teachers, university professors, police officers, army officers and judicial employees, as well as the
non-contributory pension benefits to Chaco war veterans and their survivors. This institution, which
operates on a pay-as-you-go basis, has been a central factor contributing to fiscal instability, generating
chronically large deficits, equivalent to 1.9 percent of GDP in 2002. Unrealistic benefits, such as retirement
ages as low as 40, and widespread fraud have been key factors contributing to the chronically high deficits.
To address the lack of sustainability of the public sector pension fund, the ERL's conditionality included
the presentation to Congress of a reform of the Caja Fiscal aimed at reducing its cash deficit and fostering
more homogeneity with the benefits and parameters of other existing pension funds. The reform of the Caja
Fiscal, together with a set of actions aimed at improving its administration, were intended as a first step in
the development of a financially sustainable and equitable pension system (see Annex 1.a: Matrix of Policy
Actions).

3.4 Revised Components:

The components did not change during project implementation.


                                                      - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group. Quality at entry is considered highly
satisfactory as the operation's objectives were highly responsive, both in substance and opportunity, to
government priorities and fully in line with the longer term objectives of the Bank's assistance strategy for
Paraguay. The design of the operation responded effectively to those objectives with due consideration of
external factors and risks; the Bank's safeguard policies did not apply.

The loan objectives were consistent with the government's priorities as reflected in its Letter of
Development Policy as well as the Bank's policy objectives as articulated in the 2003 CAS. The approach
embedded in the ERL reflects many of the characteristics of the Bank's newly adopted Development Policy
Lending (World Bank, 2004a). Specifically, the new CAS and the ERL are closely aligned with Paraguay's
priorities, fully supporting the reform program of the administration instead of trying to `purchase' reforms
deemed important to the Bank's staff. While the ERL is a rather complex operation that includes several
key reforms and a myriad of government actions aimed at enhancing the public sector performance and
transparency, it does not follow a prescriptive approach; rather, it includes those reforms and actions that
had been assigned top priority by the incoming administration. The new CAS also takes a long-term
perspective towards solving Paraguay's structural problems, with the ERL being the first in a series of
operations designed to tackle individual sectors, along the lines of programmatic lending. Likewise, the
ERL reflects a comprehensive approach toward development, taking into consideration the myriad
challenges facing Paraguay, which include not only fiscal stability and public sector reform but social
issues as well. In addition, the ERL has a strong emphasis on ensuring broader participation in government
policy making. Finally, the ERL has been fully consistent with the new emphasis on the faster processing of
operations, high client responsiveness and the provision of timely financing. Drawing from the Bank's
previous operational and sector work in Paraguay and elsewhere, the Bank's team provided substantial
technical assistance in the design of the reforms, particularly in the development of procurement procedures
and financial sector reform.

Tranching was the subject of lengthy discussions during project preparation and appraisal, as well as
during the Board's meeting, when the advantages and disadvantages of adopting a one-tranche versus a
two-tranche format for the operation were analyzed in detail. On the one hand, a one-tranche format
permitted the timely influx of financial resources--key in helping Paraguay overcome its large financing
gap for 2003--at the expense of relatively higher risk in ensuring the implementation of the newly adopted
policy measures. On the other hand, a two-tranche operation would have permitted a better linkage between
policy measures and actual performance, although sacrificing crucial expediency in the provision of
financial resources. In the end, a single-tranche operation was considered more appropriate, placing a
premium on providing early and rapid support to the new administration in its efforts to restore fiscal
stability. As the ERL was to be followed by a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, ensuring further action
on key financial sector issues, it was considered that this provided some comfort regarding the likely
continuity and implementation of the government's reform program. Moreover, the ERL's Matrix of Policy
Actions was expanded to include a set of well-defined implementation benchmarks to measure progress on
the implementation of the operation's policy actions and laws. In turn, these benchmarks replicated closely
the performance criteria included in the CAS, effectively linking future lending to satisfactory progress in
the implementation of the key reforms supported under the ERL.

In terms of the operation's design and timing, the strategic conception embedded in the design of the ERL
was key in enhancing its effectiveness. Specifically, the operation focused on a well-defined set of actions
that were identified as pre-conditions for further progress in the reform program. The Bank also identified



                                                      - 5 -

the need to move swiftly, ensuring the timely influx of resources--both technical and financial--to enhance
the chances of success for the government's reform program by helping it achieve tangible results during
the first 100 days of its administration. The strategic conception of the new operation was coupled with an
agile response on the part of the Bank, which promptly embarked on analytical policy work, followed
almost immediately by a lending operation. This approach resulted not only in economies of scale in time
and other inputs, but also in full internal consistency between the policy framework and the supporting
lending operation.

During project design, the main risk factors, including the potential backtracking on the reform efforts due
to vested interests, weak implementation capacity and vulnerability to regional shocks, were correctly
identified and candidly discussed in the Program Document (Report No. 27172-PA). At the political level,
Paraguay's lack of a record of accomplishment in implementing high-quality reforms was identified as a
significant risk, particularly since the government's reform strategy was an ambitious one, including major
reforms to be approved by Congress within a short time period. Likewise, efforts to tackle corruption and
increase efficiency in the public sector had the potential to ignite strong resistance, weakening the reform
agenda. The new administration's concerted efforts to reach a wide-ranging political consensus for its
reform program was considered a key factor in mitigating these risks.

At the implementation level, the weak capacity of Paraguay's public sector was identified as a factor that
could endanger the sustainability of the reforms in the medium term. The administration's understanding
and demonstrated willingness to act on public sector strengthening and reform were considered mitigating
factors, as was the assistance it sought from the Bank, the IDB and others for advice, lending and technical
assistance in key areas of the reform agenda.

At the macroeconomic level, regional shocks and weak economic growth were seen as a threat to the
sustainability of the reform program, particularly since the government's strategy for restoring fiscal
stability depended heavily on increased tax revenues. This risk was mitigated by the improving regional
conditions--particularly in Brazil and Argentina--as well as the rise in prices of Paraguay's commodity
exports, all of which pointed to improved growth prospects for Paraguay's economy. Likewise, the newly
signed IMF Stand-By agreement and the new financial support from the Bank and the IDB, including the
ERL itself, were seen as key risk-management measures to help Paraguay weather regional shocks from a
stronger fiscal position.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

By the time the new administration took office in August 2003, Paraguay was experiencing serious
difficulties in meeting its debt obligations, with mounting arrears on debt service having reached almost 3
percent of GDP by the end of 2002. Given Paraguay's almost complete lack of access to financing at the
time, both domestic and international, the fiscal gap was largely financed by a combination of delays in
public sector salary payments, postponment of public investment expenditures, the drawing down of
deposits at the Central Bank and the accumulation of arrears to creditors and suppliers. With an estimated
fiscal gap of US$200 million for 2003, equivalent to over 3 percent of GDP, the country was on the brink
of default.

By providing early support to the administration's economic and institutional reform agenda, the ERL
helped the government avoid a severe financial crisis, meet its short-term debt obligations and gain time to
restore fiscal balance. After several years of fiscal deficits, tight spending policies and improved tax



                                                       - 6 -

administration improved primary balances from -1.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to 0.9 percent of GDP in
2003, and to an estimated 2.8 percent of GDP in 2004 for the central administration, and from -1.3 percent
of GDP in 2002 to 2.4 and 4.0 percent of GDP, in 2003 and 2004, respectively, for the consolidated public
administration. Other macroeconomic policy indicators also improved. The annual inflation rate declined
from 14.6 percent in 2002 to 9.3 percent in 2003, and to 2.8 percent in 2004. After a 40 percent decline in
2002, the Guaraní appreciated by close to 15 percent with respect to the dollar in 2003 and enjoyed broad
stability in 2004. Arrears in external debt servicing obligations have been eliminated and international
reserves have increased by almost 40 percent, from US$786 million in June 2003 to US$1.2 billion in
2004.

From a more stable fiscal position, the administration was then able to concentrate on its program,
undertaking long-needed reforms aimed at achieving sustained fiscal stability, restoring confidence in state
institutions, reducing corruption and improving public sector management in the medium term. With ERL
support, a package of key legislative actions was presented and approved by Congress, resulting in major
reforms of the tax code, the public-sector pension system, the customs code and the banking system. The
ERL also supported numerous actions aimed at improving public sector administration, including the
implementation of enhanced budgetary procedures, a new public procurement system, censuses of public
sector employees and of beneficiaries of the public pension scheme, and the adoption of a financial
management action plan.

The first stage of the reform program has been highly successful, as evidence by the positive evolution of
the main economic indicators. After a decline of 2.3 percent in GDP in 2002, economic growth was
restored, with 2.6 percent growth in 2003 and a 2.9 percent growth in 2004. This constitutes a significant
improvement with respect to the 0.4 percent average growth rate during the period 1996-2002. Higher
economic growth rates allowed per capita GDP to reverse its annual decline, and poverty to fall from its
2002 peak of 46.4 to 41 percent in 2003.

The reforms supported under the ERL have also laid the foundations to restore economic growth and fight
poverty. The early successes of the economic reform program have helped restore investor confidence, as
evidenced by the increase in economic activity in various sectors of the economy, including the
construction, agriculture and industrial sectors. From an enhanced fiscal position, the administration is now
better positioned to address poverty, with budgeted social spending, including education, health, social
protection and housing, having increased by 4 percent, in real terms, with respect to 2003. The government
has also reached agreements with the United Nations--i.e., UNDP and UNICEF--to provide information
on social spending to monitor progress toward the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
Nevertheless, continued concerted action is needed if Paraguay is to make significant inroads in the fight
against poverty, both to ensure more substantial per capita growth rates and that public resources
effectively reach the neediest sectors of the population.

In summary, the ERL played an important role in providing early support to the improvements in
Paraguay's economic and social conditions. By providing timely financial backing to the incoming
administration, the operation helped prevent a major economic crisis and the consequent social costs on the
more vulnerable sectors of the population. It also helped capitalize on the window of opportunity that
opened with the new administration which has been effective in setting in motion an ambitious set of
structural reforms aimed at restoring economic growth in a framework of social and fiscal responsibility.

The achievement of objectives in each of the individual components is as follows:

a. Fiscal Stabilization: Achievement of objectives under the fiscal stabilization component has been


                                                      - 7 -

highly satisfactory. Because of the government's commitment to fiscal responsibility and economic
reform, together with a more stable external environment, Paraguay's fiscal performance has improved
substantially. The overall deficit in public accounts was reduced from 3.1 percent in 2002 to 0.1 percent in
2003, a significant improvement considering preliminary estimates projected a deficit of 3 percent of GDP
for 2003. A surplus of 3.2 percent of GDP was achieved in 2004, a significant overperformace with respect
to the fiscal surplus target of 0.3 percent of GDP established in the IMF Stand-By Arrangement. The total
public debt-to-GDP ratio declined from 49.6 percent in 2002 to 45.6 percent in 2004.

The improvement in Paraguay's fiscal accounts has been the result of a remarkable increase in public
revenues and tight control over public spending. In 2004, current revenues increased by 27 percent relative
to 2003, while current expenditures increased by only 8 percent (in nominal terms) during the same period.
The number of permanent employees has remained almost constant and no salary increases have been given
- with the exception of increases for the judicial sector in 2004 - and a review of public employees to
reduce multiple jobs held by the same person was completed. As a result, expenditure on wages and
salaries in the central administration declined from 8.1 percent of GDP in 2002 to an estimated 7 percent in
2004. Other important measures have been taken to limit public spending and improve its rationality,
including pension reform (see Section 4(e)), reduced interest payments on public debt through domestic
debt restructuring, improved budgetary procedures and enhanced procurement procedures.

b. Tax Policy: Achievement of objectives under the tax policy component has been satisfactory. During
2004, tax revenues--including customs--increased by 36 percent with respect to the previous year, a
growth of over 2 percentage points of GDP. The increase in tax revenues has been the result of the
government's efforts to reduce evasion, increase efficiency and reduce corruption in tax and customs
administration. Personal leadership from the top of the administration was a key factor in increasing
awareness and the perceived risk of evasion and corruption both among the general population and within
the agency, resulting in the remarkable increase in tax collections.

In addition to the improvements in tax and customs administration, the approval of a Tax Reform Law (Ley
de Reordenamiento Administrativo y Adecuación Fiscal) in July 2004 constitutes a significant
breakthrough in tax policy, as it introduces new revenue instruments, including a personal income tax,
broadens the value-added tax (VAT) and company income tax base -- extending it to agriculture and
ranching -- eliminates exemptions and strengthens tax administration. The Law also gradually, in two
stages, reduces the company tax rate from 30 to 10 percent. The revenue impact of the new tax bill is
estimated at 1.5 percent of GDP once it is fully effective in 2011. However, the increase in the diesel fuel (
gasoil) tax from 14 to 26 percent, which was one of the ERL conditionalities, was not ultimately
maintained. While the increase took place as originally envisioned, the tax rate was later reversed to the
original level, reportedly as a temporary measure to ameliorate the negative impact of the record-high oil
prices registered in 2004.

c. Public Administration and Anti-Corruption: Achievement of objectives under the public
administration and anti-corruption component has been satisfactory. With the support of the ERL, the
administration has implemented a series of important measures aimed at improving efficiency in the
management of public resources, enhancing transparency and reducing corruption. The achievements in the
area of procurement are particularly noteworthy, and follow the passage of a new law and regulation to
modernize public procurement. An informational public procurement portal has been launched on the Web
as a first step in a full-fledged electronic procurement system. In addition, a public process for the
competitive selection of the head and key staff of the DGCP (Dirección General de Contrataciones
Públicas, General Directorate General of Public Procurement) has taken place, as have public hearings on
the newly designed standard public bidding documents. Progress on these measures and the increased


                                                      - 8 -

transparency of public procurement practices has already led to reductions in spending on goods and
services and to more efficient public investment. Equally significant has been the adoption of a new
Customs Code, which modernizes procedures, curtails corruption and grants financial independence to the
customs administration. The recently completed census of public employees holds promise as an ingredient
to help rationalize human resources within the public sector. The establishment of a unit responsible for
coordinating externally financed projects, the partnership with Transparencia Paraguay and other NGOs,
as well as the implementation of a financial management plan are also significant, as they begin to pave the
way for a modern and more credible public sector.

d. Financial Sector: Achievement of objectives under the financial sector component has been
satisfactory. Although the level of non-performing loans remains high (although it declined in 2004), the
passage of the Deposit Guarantee and Bank Resolution Fund Law has eased banking system risks. The new
law has introduced a deposit-guarantee system financed by the commercial banks. In the event of a bank
collapse, the deposit guarantee fund will facilitate the purchase of the assets by solvent banks and ensure
that depositors are compensated. Previously, the state was required to bail out depositors of collapsed
banks; thus, this reform effectively reduces the public sector's contingent liabilities. This is no minor
accomplishment, given that the fiscal cost of bank rescues in Paraguay during the 1990s was estimated at
over 12 percent of GDP.

e. Public Sector Pension System: Achievement of objectives under the public sector pension system
component has been satisfactory. In December 2003, Congress approved a new law reforming the Caja
Fiscal, which has reduced the financial deficit of the system and fostered consistency across pension plans.
Some of the specific modifications included: increasing the contribution rate from 14 to 16 percent;
increasing the retirement age from between 40 and 50 years, depending on occupation, gender and years of
service, to 62 years and making retirement mandatory at this age; modifying the base wage used to compute
the pension benefit from the last wage to average wage over the last five years of service; significantly
reducing the replacement rate from 93 percent of the base wage to 20 percent of the base wage plus 2.7
percent per year of service, applicable only after ten years of service; eliminating the aguinaldo--i.e.,
thirteenth-month bonus; and linking pension indexation to CPI inflation rather than public wage increases.
Although Congress granted some exceptions to these rules, particularly for teachers, the new law
constitutes a significant improvement over the previous one. In addition, the Caja Fiscal reform law has
generated savings from the Chaco war pensions--which generated 45 percent of the overall deficit of the
Caja Fiscal in 2003--by reducing survivor pensions from 100 to 75 percent of the original pension,
making eligibility criteria somewhat more stringent and abolishing the aguinaldo(there has been some
back-tracking on this measure, however, with a recent law reintroducing the aguinaldofor 2005). Notably,
the law has made explicit the subsidy embedded in the non-contributing Chaco-war pensions by separating
their administration from the contributing pensions and requiring that they be fully financed in the annual
budget law. Estimates indicate that the new reform law has reduced the actuarial deficit (i.e. the present
value of the future stream of surpluses/deficits) over the period 2003-2050 by approximately half, from
almost 90 percent of GDP in 2003. To increase efficiency, enhance transparency and reduce corruption
within the Caja Fiscal, the government has embarked on an in-depth review of the registry of the
beneficiaries to identify and eliminate illegitimate claims.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Progress toward the implementation of the various policy reforms has been generally positive, with the
majority of benchmark indicators either having been achieved or being well advanced (see Annex 1.b: Key
Performance and Monitoring Indicators). All the reform laws supported by the operation have been
approved by Congress. In addition, the operation has effectively supported the implementation of a



                                                       - 9 -

substantive set of actions aimed at enhancing rationality, efficiency and transparency in public sector
management in key areas, such as tax revenues, budgetary procedures, procurement practices and public
pensions. The main exceptions are the failure to maintain a freeze on the nominal wage bill of the central
administration (although the number of permanent employees remained basically constant, as did payroll
spending as a proportion of GDP) and the exclusion from the budget by Congress of the provision to create
a compensation fund to ameliorate the social impact of measures reducing public sector staffing. Likewise,
after having increased from 14 to 26 percent, the gasoil tax was lowered again to its 2003 level as a
temporary measure to ameliorate the negative impact of record world oil prices.

The specific outcomes corresponding to the individual components are the following:

a) Fiscal Stabilization

Maintenance of an acceptable macroeconomic framework: Achieved. The Stand-By Arrangement signed
with the IMF in December 2003 is on track, with the first four reviews having been completed. A fifth
review is scheduled for June 2005. The SBA has been extended by six months to allow more time to fulfill
the structural reform agenda. At the fourth program review in March 2005, IMF Directors commended the
authorities for Paraguay's strong economic performance with GDP growth coming in higher than
projected, the lowest inflation in a decade, and a shift in fiscal position from deficits back into
surplus. They noted that the fiscal outlook has improved, partly reflecting the congressional
passage of the tax reform as well as the significant improvements in tax administration in the
internal revenue service and customs.

Withdrawal of budgetary supplements from 2003 budget: Achieved. To quickly halt the growth of
spending, the new administration withdrew all the budgetary supplements that had been presented during
the previous administration, with the exception of those targeting priority social and agricultural areas. The
fiscal effect of this was approximately US$32 million, about 0.5 percent of GDP. The number of requests
for budgetary supplements was further reduced in 2004, with only 12 supplements being requested
compared to 117 in 2003.

Maintenance of the nominal wage bill freeze for permanent employees and a reduction of wage bill for
contracted employees: Partially achieved. While the wage bill of the central administration in 2003
amounted to G2.724 billion (7 percent of GDP), the 2004 wage bill stood at G2.984 billion (also 7 percent
of GDP), equivalent to a 6 percent increase in real terms. These figures correspond to all payroll
obligations of the central administration, as it is not yet possible to differentiate between permanent and
contracted employees.

The availability of additional resources as a result of the larger than projected tax revenues increases
moderates the fiscal impact of wage growth. It is also important to note that increases in public sector
employment have responded primarily to the need for public services to keep up with the demands arising
from population growth--especially in terms of teachers, healthcare and security workers--and the normal
increases associated with staff promotions. With the exception of salary increases granted to the judicial
sector, there have been no salary increases in the rest of the central administration, although some
ministries have re-categorized staff in order to increase their salaries. Other measures to circumvent the
freeze on wages include the charging of overtime as well as other extraordinary remuneration.

Review of all public employees completed, identifying those with multiple salaries: Achieved. Significant
progress has been made in the effort to identify public employees who unduly received more than one



                                                      - 10 -

salary. Approximately two-thirds of the 90 institutions covered in the review (including the central
administration, the Banco Nacional de Fomento, the Instituto de Previsión Social, and the Municipality of
Asunción) have supplied the required information--i.e., a complete list of permanent and contract
employees--to the Secretaría de la Función Pública. To date, 1,650 employees receiving more than one
salary have been identified. Of these, a significant number are health and education personnel, some of
whom are legally entitled to hold more than one public-sector job. Approximately 170 of the identified
employees have resigned. The estimated savings resulting from this exercise so far amount to G 106 million
per month, or US$ 220,000 per year. This figure is expected to increase as the process proceeds. Follow-up
actions include informing employees and institutions of the need to regularize their status. Detailed
information--including personal identification data, education and terms of the appointment--is also being
incorporated into employee databases in order to simplify the process of identifying those who are
permitted to hold more than one (non-simultaneous) public post. The process calls for administrative
reviews for those cases where the employee cannot demonstrate a justification and does not resign. Audits
aimed at detecting irregularities are currently being carried out in three key sectors--i.e., health, education
and defense--as required by the 2004 Budget Law. Three additional sectors are expected to be audited
during 2005.

Approval of the 2004 budget, including the following measures:

i.   Reduction of administrative personnel of the central administration from 2003 levels: Partially
     achieved. The number of positions in the central administration remained almost constant between
     2003 and 2004. The 2004 budget identified 152,271 positions, equivalent to a 1 percent increase with
     respect to 2003. Some ministries reduced their staff, including the Ministry of Finance, with a net
     reduction of reduction of 244 positions (equivalent to a reduction of 306 permanent positions and an
     increase of 62 contracted positions). Other entities also made smaller reductions. In addition, about
     3,600 employees were identified as eligible for automatic pensions in 2004 (all public employees are
     obliged under Law No. 2344 of 2004 to retire upon reaching 62 or 57 years of age, for men and
     women, respectively). Approximately 700 of these positions are expected to be suppressed upon the
     retirement of the incumbents.

ii. Reduction of central administration personnel contracts from 2003 levels: Information not available.
     There is no data available on contractual staff, which makes it impossible to determine the 2003-2004
     variation.

iii. Creation of a Compensation Fund (Fondo de Inserción Laboral): Not achieved. The 2004 budget
     provided for the creation of Compensation Fund aimed at ameliorating the social impact of measures
     reducing public sector staffing. The provision for creating this fund was deleted from the 2004 budget
     by Congress. However, it is important to note that there has not been a significant reduction in public
     sector staffing except for those eligible for automatic retirement and the elimination of illegitimate
     positions, such as multiple appointments with overlapping schedules.

iii. 100 percent financing of counterpart funds for projects with external funding: Partially achieved. The
     original 2004 budget did not include 100 percent counterpart funds for externally funded projects. A
     budgetary supplement was approved in the second semester of 2004 with an increase in the total
     amount budgeted for counterpart funding, from G 151 billion to G 264 billion.

b) Tax Policy

Increase in the excise tax on gasoil from 14 percent to 26 percent: Not achieved (Reversed). One of the


                                                       - 11 -

ERL's policy conditions was to increase the excise tax on diesel (gasoil) from 14 percent to 20 percent by
Board presentation. A second increase in the gasoil tax to 26 percent was identified as a benchmark
indicator. While the excise tax on gasoil was indeed raised from 14 to 20 percent in August 2003 and,
again to 26 percent in January 2004, it was later reversed to the original 14 percent level. The reduction is
supposedly a temporary measure to release some of the pressure generated by record-high oil prices on the
economy.

Approval by Congress of the Tax Reform Law: Achieved. The new tax bill -- the Administrative
Restructuring and Fiscal Adjustment Law (Ley de Reordenamiento Administrativo y Adecuación Fiscal)
-- was approved by Congress in July 2004. It introduces significant modifications to the tax code designed
to increase revenues and unify rates, largely through a widening of the tax base and the elimination of
exceptions and loopholes. The fiscal impact of this reform is estimated to reach 1.5 percent of GDP per
year once it is fully effective.

c) Public Administration and Anti-Corruption

Congress to approve program and results budget, with ten central ministries developing detailed
financial plans for implementation of the 2004 budget, linking disbursements to program objectives:
Partially Achieved. For the first time, the 2004 budget was prepared using a programs-and-results
methodology. Upon consultations with technical experts from neighboring countries, the government
decided that the process of evaluating the achievement of program objectives should not be incorporated
into budget execution at this stage, but instead should run in parallel to the budget process until a sound
methodology is developed. An evaluation tool will be tested in five entities during 2005 as a pilot
experience.

Approval by Congress of a new Customs Code: Achieved. A new Customs Code was approved in July
2004. The Code modernizes and simplifies administrative procedures, stiffens sanctions, provides for the
professionalization of the staff of the customs administration and grants it financial autonomy by assigning
resources equivalent to 0.5 percent of the value of imports. The fiscal impact of the new Code is expected
to be substantial, equivalent to a 100 to 200 percent increase in revenues over the already record-high levels
currently being achieved.

Progress in the implementation of a Procurement Action Plan: Achieved. The Government has made
important progress in implementing Paraguay's Procurement Action Plan in accordance to the recently
approved Public Procurement Law and the resolution creating the Directorate General of Public
Procurement (DGCP). An online procurement portal has been launched, which posts the annual
procurement plans for state institutions, bidding documents, the bulk of invitations to bid and contract
awards as well as a list of ineligible and black-listed contractors. This is seen as the first step in a
full-fledged electronic procurement system. A public process for the competitive selection of the head and
key staff of the DGCP has taken place, as have public hearings on the newly designed standard public
bidding documents. The DGCP is implementing a comprehensive training program for public sector
employees, potential contractors and civil society on the new Procurement Law and its implementation.
Progress on these measures and the increased transparency of public procurement practices has already led
to reductions in spending on goods and services, such as a 37 percent reduction in procurement costs in the
health area for the period January-April 2004 compared to the previous year. The new procurement portal
has also resulted in savings for the private sector--for example, bidding documents that cost US$10,000 in
2003 can now be downloaded at not cost from the portal. The success of the actions implemented in
procurement is illustrated by the opinions expressed by public sector users--many of whom had resisted
the implementation of the new procedure--with 78 and 82 percent of respondents reporting that the new


                                                      - 12 -

procedures have resulted in enhanced transparency and significant savings, respectively.

Report from Transparency Paraguay on implementation of the agreement with the Ministry of Finance:
Achieved. A report on Transparency Paraguay's activities with the Ministry of Finance has been provided
as agreed. Transparency Paraguay has been particularly active in the area of public education with regard
to tax obligations and in the Procurement Directorate's training program. They have also been involved
with the newly established Citizen Participation Unit within the Ministry of Finance.

Finalization of the public sector employee census: Achieved. Data collection for the public sector
employee census was completed in April 2004, including among others the executive, legislative and
judicial branches, public financial institutions, autonomous and decentralized entities, IPS, Petropar, armed
forces, national police, departmental and municipal governments, and national universities. A report of the
census results has been published, and the digitalization of the information has taken place and will be
incorporated into the national human resources management system (Sistema Nacional de Recursos
Humanos, SINARH), where individual employee files will be generated. The next step is the transfer of
employee files to the respective public sector entities and data verification. This new database will set the
foundation for the eventual rationalization of human resources in the public administration as well as
stringent controls linking salary payments with up-to-date, reliable human resources information.

Staffing and operation of the Unit of Public Investment: Achieved. The Unit of Public Investment has been
created and staffed and is in operation. The Unit, which until recently reported directly to the Minister of
Finance although it has now been merged into the Vice-Ministry of Economy, is responsible for the
coordination of externally funded programs with the ultimate objective of avoiding overlaps and
duplication, incorporating lessons learned in project preparation, design and implementation, and increasing
the administrative capacity of project units.

Progress on the adopted Financial Management Action Plan: In progress. Substantial advances have been
made toward the implementation of Paraguay's Financial Management Action Plan. With IDB support, an
integrated financial management system (SIAF) has been implemented in the central administration and in
some decentralized agencies. A peer review of the Comptroller General's (CGR) audit procedures is
underway and an internal audit manual for the CGR is being prepared. The government is fulfilling its
commitment to require independent audits of public enterprises, which will also be subject to increased data
publishing requirements to improve transparency. This is part of an effort to improve efficiency and
governance in Paraguay's public enterprises, which, despite having a strong presence in key economic
activities of the country, have been plagued by inefficient operations, lack of transparency and inadequate
financial management.

d) Financial Sector

Completion of the financial sector measures and reforms as included in the proposal Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL): In progress. The Deposit Guarantee and Bank Resolution Fund Law (Ley de
Garantía de los Depósitos y Resolución de Entidades Financieras) was approved by Congress in late
2003. The Executive submitted a General Banking reform to Congress in December 2004, and the reform
of the public sector banks -- split into a second and a first tier public banking law -- in November 2004 and
February 2005, respectively. The public banking reforms would restructure and consolidate state-owned
financial institutions in order to contain their potential fiscal costs, eliminating duplication of activities and
increasing transparency and accountability. The first tier public bank system would focus on loans to
small-scale borrowers who have difficulty obtaining commercial credits. The second tier would channel
foreign credits for economic development through the private banking system to medium and large-scale


                                                      - 13 -

borrowers. A new Anti-Money Laundering Law has also been presented to Congress and would modernize
and strengthen procedures and systems of the detection and prevention of money laundering. It would
expedite judicial and penal action on detected money laundering activities, create a single intelligence unit
in charge of overseeing all anti-money laundering activity, require reporting requirements according to
international standards to allow for quicker verification of information, and enhance transparency in the
procedures for seizure and decommissioning of assets.

e)         Public Sector Pension Fund (Caja Fiscal)

Updating of the database of public sector pension and progress in the reorganization of the unit in
charge of affairs related to the Caja Fiscal, and the submission of a preliminary report, by the
contracted firm, on the status and issues related to current management of the Caja Fiscal: Partially
achieved/In progress. The digitalization of the files corresponding to about 55,000 beneficiaries of the Caja
Fisca--32,000 pensioners and 23,000 veterans and their survivors--and the creation of the new
information system is expected to be completed by the end of November 2004 with support from IDB. A
preliminary diagnosis has been prepared by Price Waterhouse--the firm contracted to help reorganize the
pension administration and computerize its databases. The corresponding report has been submitted to the
Bank, as agreed in the framework of the ERL. A new payment system is under preparation, centering on
the non-contributory plans of the Caja Fiscal, as most public sector retirees already receive their pensions
through the banking system.

Beneficiary files are being reviewed to verify their accuracy and identify illegitimate and phantom
pensioners. As a result of this effort, 3413 beneficiaries have been eliminated since August 2003, resulting
in estimated annual savings of G26.7 billion (US$4.5 million). These efforts should eventually generate
even larger savings, as fraudulent claims are believed to be widespread, particularly in the administration of
Chaco war pensions. Actions are also being taken to improve the functioning of the Caja Fiscal,
increasing its efficiency and transparency. For example, as a result of the simplification of bureaucratic
procedures, the time required to process a pension has been reduced from three months to 15 days.

Table 1.         Evolution of the Operational Deficit of the Caja Fiscal, January-July 2003, 2004


                                                                  Contributions                         Disbursements                      Balance
                        Categories                         2003         2004       2003-04       2003        2004      2003-04   2003        2004      2003-04
                                                       (G billion)   (G billion)      %        (G billion) (G billion)   %     (G billion) (G billion)   %


     Contributory Pensions
     Public administration                                 134           157        17.0%         105         116      10.1%       28          40      42.2%
     University teachers                                    17           25         47.9%         13          16       24.4%       4           10      114.1%
     Judicial employees                                     12           21         70.3%         10          11        4.3%       2           10      427.1%
     Police force                                           33           40         21.7%         91          95        4.6%      (58)        (56)      4.9%
     Teachers                                              152           172        13.4%         211         225       6.7%      (59)        (53)     10.4%
     Armed forces                                           22           25         14.9%         168         171       1.9%     (146)       (146)      0.1%

     Non-Contributory Pensions                              0             0            0          344         306      -11.0%    (344)       (306)     11.0%
     Veterans and heirs of the Chaco War

     Total Caja Fiscal                                     369           440        19.0%         943         940      -0.2%     (573)       (501)     12.6%
     Percent of GDP                                        1.0           1.0         7.6%         2.4         2.2      -9.8%      -1.5        -1.2     21.0%


     Source: Sistema de Contabilidad (SICO), Ministry of Finance. 2004 figures are preliminary.




Approval by Congress of a law reforming the Caja Fiscal: Achieved. As mentioned earlier, the reform of
the Caja Fiscal was approved by Congress in late 2003, in a form largely similar to its original version




                                                                                   - 14 -

apart from some exceptions granted to teachers and, to a lesser degree, police and the armed forces. The
fiscal impact of the reform has been substantial, with the evolution of the cash flow of the Caja Fiscal
during 2004 showing a favorable trend with respect to 2003, particularly among contributing plans. While
contributions have increased by 19 percent relative to 2003, benefits paid in the form of contributory
pensions have remained roughly constant (see Table 1). As a result, the cumulative operational deficit (i.e.,
the difference between annual contributions and annual disbursements) which amounted to G 501 billion at
the end 2004, experienced a reduction of more than 12 percent with respect to the previous year.
Performance has been less impressive for non-contributory pensions, with benefits for war veterans and
their survivors decreasing by only 1 percent during 2004 relative to the same period in 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact has been substantial. With the support of the ERL, the
administration has initiated an ambitious reform process aimed at addressing the country's long-standing
governance problems and improving the efficiency and transparency of government operations. With the
support of the ERL, key economic reform laws have been approved by Congress imposing limits on current
expenditures, tackling key fiscal drains on public accounts, enhancing tax and tariff revenues and
addressing urgent vulnerabilities of the economy such as those associated with the financial sector. As
discussed in detail in previous sections, these bills include:

§ 2004BudgetLaw(LeydePresupuestoGeneraldelaNación2004;2.344/2003),whichintroduces
    several key provisions aimed at limiting fiscal deficits and improving the quality of public spending.
§ TaxReformLaw(LeydeReordenamientoAdministrativoyAdecuaciónFiscal,LawNo.2.421/04),
    which expands the tax base and eliminates exemptions.
§ CustomsCode(LeydeReformadelCódicoAduanero,LawNº2.422/2004),whichmodernizesand
    strengths the customs administration, optimizes revenue collection, reduces user costs, and grants
    financial autonomy to the customs administration.
§ GovernmentPensionReformLaw(LeydeReformadelaCajadeJubilaciones,LawNº2.345/2003),
    which reforms the government employees' pension plan, a chronic drain on public finances
§ DepositInsuranceandBankResolutionLaw(LeydeGarantíadeDepósitosyResoluciónde
    Entidades Financieras, Law No. 2.334/03), which strengthens the banking system through improved
    bank resolution and deposit insurance as a safeguard against potential losses on non-performing loans.

In addition to legislative advances, the administration has embarked on a far-reaching program to
modernize and reform public sector management by enhancing its transparency, reducing widespread
corruption and increasing its overall efficiency. These actions include steps to improve the efficiency in tax
and customs administration and to eliminate pockets of corruption within these agencies. A census of
public sector employees has been completed which, in addition to potentially playing a key role in
rationalizing resources and enhancing the performance of the public sector, is being used to audit employee
rolls in order to eliminate phantom workers and those collecting more than one salary. Similarly, the
government pension rolls are being cleansed, with 3,400 non-justified pensions having been eliminated. The



                                                       - 15 -

government has also made significant progress in the implementation of public procurement and financial
administration action plans, enhancing the efficiency and transparency in the use of public funds.
Agreements have been subscribed with non-government organizations, such as Transparency Paraguay, the
National Integrity Council (Consejo Impulsor del Sistema Nacional de Integridad, CISNI) and the
Network of Citizen Controllers (Red de Contralorías Ciudadanas) to develop mechanisms for citizen
participation with the ultimate objective of eliminating corruption.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The interplay of several factors, both within and outside the government's control, has contributed in
creating a favorable environment for Paraguay's economic recovery and the implementation of the
government's reform agenda.

Overall, factors outside the government's control have been generally quite positive, contributing to the
initial success of the reform program. On the positive side, the rise in international prices for soybean and
cotton, as well as improved economic conditions in Brazil and Argentina, have contributed to Paraguay's
economic recovery. As a result, both agricultural and non-agricultural output has increased, generating
modest economic growth. Likewise, higher economic activity in Brazil and Argentina has resulted in higher
royalties from Yacyretá and Itaipú, which, during the period of January-July 2004, increased by 30 percent
relative to the previous year. On the negative side, record-high oil prices, reaching over the US$50 per
barrel mark in 2004, have had a negative impact, particularly given Paraguay's full dependence on oil
imports, as well as the price distortions introduced by the Paraguayan oil company, Petropar. Likewise, a
late-season drought depressed the output of soy, the largest export crop, reducing expected agricultural
output growth to nearly zero. Robust economic activity is, of course, an important condition for the success
of the reform program, particularly given the prominence of increased tax revenues in the administration's
strategy to achieve sustained fiscal stability.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The rapid deterioration of economic and social conditions, and the strong mandate received by the incoming
administration, opened a window of opportunity for reform, generating wide support among both the
general population and political parties. The administration succeeded in capitalizing on this opportunity
and successfully built a coalition of support for its stabilization and reform program involving multiple
stakeholders. On the domestic financial front, it successfully negotiated an agreement with 14 domestic
financial institutions to voluntarily renegotiate the repayment of US$138 million in internal debt. It also
gained the support of the country's main economic groups to reform the tax structure. Likewise, as part of
the Acuerdo Político, the President obtained the support of the heads of both houses of Congress as well as
opposition party leaders for the government's ambitious reforms and their corresponding legislative
approval. Finally, the administration was also very effective in seeking the backing of international
financial institutions. By the end of 2003, considerable advances in core economic laws enabled the
administration to reach an agreement with the IMF for a precautionary 15-month Stand-By Arrangement,
and allowed the approval of adjustment lending totaling a combined US$60 million by the Bank and IDB.
The experience of Paraguay points to the importance of building coalitions across broad sectors of society
to support far-reaching reform programs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:




                                                      - 16 -

With the full support of the President, the Ministry of Finance articulated a clear reform strategy,
identifying both immediate actions to be implemented during the first 100 days of the administration, as
well as a medium-term strategy. It also demonstrated a high capacity for implementation, relying on
top-notch professionals from both inside and outside the public administration. In areas that required strong
technical expertise, such as fiscal policy, debt management and pension reform, in-house resources were
key in determining the overall reform strategy. In contrast, positions that required strong implementation
skills and the introduction of modern management models were filled by outsiders, such as in the areas of
tax administration and procurement. In this way, a good balance was achieved between key in-house
expertise and innovative ideas grought by newcomers from outside government. Strong political support on
the part of the President and the Ministry of Finance was a key ingredient in fostering leadership at
different levels of the administration and attaining tangible results early in the reform process.


5.4 Costs and financing:

A single tranche for a total amount of US$30 million was disbursed in December 2003, as originally
envisioned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the achievements of the ERL is deemed likely, as the reforms supported under the
ERL constitute an integral part of the government's agenda and enjoy strong government ownership, and
the relevant law have already been approved. Consistent with the experience of reform programs
worldwide, Paraguay's early success was the result of the positive alignment of various factors: a strong
willingness to reform on the part of the incoming administration, multi-partisan political support for the
reform program fueled by the urgency to avert an impending economic crisis, and the designation of key
actors in strategic posts. Capitalizing on this window of opportunity, the President provided strong backing
to the Ministry of Finance to implement key components of the reform agenda. In turn, a small group of
individuals, many of whom were new to the public sector, was given responsibility for the implementation
of individual reforms within the Ministry of Finance. With strong technical skills and a reputation of
integrity, these `champions' have made important advances, including addressing chronic pockets of
corruption in areas such as tax and customs administration and developing modern management tools, such
as the new procurement procedures.

However, the sustainability of the significant achievements to date continues to depend on individual actors,
as the reforms have not yet been--nor could have they been in such a short period--institutionalized.
Thus, in the short term, the sustainability of the reforms strongly depends on the ability of the President to
continue to provide strong political backing to the Ministry of Finance and the champions responsible for
the reforms in individual sectors1. In the medium term, the sustainability of the reforms depends on the
ability to institutionalize the various reforms--that is, to develop and implement operational systems that
ensure the effective, efficient and transparent day-to-day management of the public administration with the
full support of the public bureaucracy and civil society. This introduces an important element of
vulnerability to the reforms and to the progress achieved thus far.

As the initial enthusiasm for the reform program wears off, with congressional elections approaching and
the threat of an economic collapse becoming less real, the administration may be pressured to slow down
and even reverse some of its reforms. There continues to be strong resistance to change within the
government. Mounting social pressure, as evidenced for example by the demonstrations of landless



                                                      - 17 -

campesinos, is also likely to generate additional pressure on the administration to increase spending and/or
take actions that may be perceived as a threat by strong interest groups. As identified during project
preparation, the absence of dialogue and actions on inequality, rural poverty and insecurity of tenure for
indigenous groups can potentially lead to a large social backlash, which would be a risk to further
implementation of the overall reform program. So far, the administration has demonstrated a capacity for
building and maintaining complex political alliances around its ambitious program. Its commitment toward
reform has been firm. In view of this track record, the government's ability to ensure the sustainability of
the achievements attained so far is considered likely, although by no means easy.

a. Fiscal Stabilization: Sustainability of the actions supported under the fiscal stabilization component is
deemed likely. The prospects for continued fiscal stabilization are encouraging, as external conditions are
more stable, economic growth is moderately rising and the government continues to be committed to fiscal
responsibility. Efforts to improve the quality of public spending need to be further deepened. For example,
while inroads have been made in identifying illegitimate public sector employment and fraudulent pensions,
much more can still be done. These efforts can potentially generate significant savings, which, in turn, can
be redirected to increase social spending. Institutionalizing responsible fiscal behavior is a much-needed,
though long-term process, as sustainability cannot depend on the enthusiasm and commitment of a small,
reform-minded team.

b. Tax Policy: Sustainability within the tax policy component is deemed likely. At the policy level, the
new tax law is an important first step toward widening the tax base and helping reduce the level of
informality in the economy. While there is a fragile equilibrium between political feasibility and the scope
of the reforms, it is important to note that there is still ample room for improvement in Paraguay's tax
policy, particularly in terms of redistribution. Likewise, taxes on diesel fuel--now back at their 2003 level
of 14 percent--continue to be significantly lower than in all other Mercosur countries.

At the operational level, by reaching record levels in tax revenues, both the tax and customs administrations
have demonstrated that significant improvement in performance is possible. As of today, however, the
strong performance in the tax and custom administrations depends on the presence of key individuals--the
Vice-Minister of Tax Administration and the Customs Director. Ultimately, the sustainability of the
improvements in tax and customs administration will depend on their successful institutionalization. In this
regard, adequate human and financial resources are key inputs in the institutionalization process. The new
custom code provides financial independence to the customs administration, ensuring it has adequate
financial resources and embedded incentives that are conducive to high performance. However, the same
financial independence was not granted to the tax administration, potentially making it more vulnerable
during times of political volatility.

e. Public Administration and Anti-Corruption: The sustainability of the progress attained under the
public administration and anti-corruption component is deemed likely, with further progress in these areas
is being supported under other IDB and World Bank operations. Broad dissemination of the new tools can
be effective in helping to ensure their sustainability, as they generate higher expectations in the public,
making their elimination more politically costly. For example, the number of users subscribed to an
electronic procurement newsletter increased from 1,200 to 3,200 within a few days after a dissemination
campaign featuring the new procurement portal.

d. Financial Sector: The sustainability of the progress achieved under the financial sector component is
deemed likely. The Programmatic FSAL approved by the Board in April 2005 will support further reforms
in Paraguay's financial sector.



                                                       - 18 -

e. Public Sector Pension System: The sustainability of the reform of the Caja Fiscal is deemed likely. At
the policy level, the newly introduced modifications to the public sector pension system have resulted in
important savings. However, further reforms are still needed to achieve financial equilibrium over the long
run, particularly in eliminating large unfunded liabilities in the three largest contributing plans--teachers,
the army and the police. Moving ahead with the reform of the Caja Fiscal--and avoiding reversals--will
require strong political committment on the part of the government, as yielding to pressures to increase
benefits would jeopardize the incipient financial sustainability of the Caja Fiscal. For example, a
legislative proposal to restore the aguinaldo has already been presented to (and rejected by) Congress. A
similar request has recently been presented to the President by representatives of the Chaco war veterans,
demanding both an increase in their pensions and the restoration of the aguinaldo.

At the operational level, steps are being taken to continue with the purging of beneficiary rolls, including
subscribing agreements to coordinate the systematic exchange of information with the national registry (
Registro Civil) and voter registration (Justicia Electoral) files. In addition, the census of public employees
that has recently been completed will provide the foundations for the development of a detailed database of
contributors to the pension system. At a later stage, the government plans to conduct a census of the
recipients of war pensions, further deepening the depuration of the Caja Fiscal. These continuing efforts
will be needed to break institutional inertia and pockets of corruption still existing within the Caja Fiscal.
While considerable progress has been made toward the identification of phantom and illegitimate
pensioners, corruption is still considered widespread within the public sector pension system, with
anecdotal evidence suggesting that up to 30 to 40 percent of claims might be fraudulent, particularly among
non-contributory pensions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

1 The recent resignation of Finance Minister Dionisio Borda is a case in point. The new Minister of Finance,
Ernst Bergen, is also perceived as a reformer and has stated his intention to maintain existing policies of economic
prudence and structural reform. Nevertheless, the continuation of the reform process will depend on the continued
strong support of the President for the reform agenda.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank's team in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the
operation was highly satisfactory. Recognizing a window of opportunity for reform with the election of the
Duarte Frutos administration, the Bank's team took the initiative and proceeded to identify policy options
open to the new administration. In this way, the Bank's team was able to transmit to the new administration
the in-depth knowledge that the Bank had accumulated over years of sector work and operational
experience in Paraguay. At the request of the new administration and with full support from upper
management, the Bank's team prepared the ERL within four months of the inauguration of the new
administration. During the interviews conducted as part of the ICR preparation, government officials
repeatedly praised the performance on the part of the Bank's team and the personal level of commitment
exhibited by its members.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision has been highly satisfactory. As the loan was fully disbursed upon Board
approval and formally closed just a week after becoming effective, no supervision missions were formally
required. However, there was close oversight of the progress being made on the various reforms by the



                                                       - 19 -

Bank's field office in Paraguay and the task manager, who is also Paraguay's country economist. At the
same time, sector task managers were responsible for the follow-up of the progress being made in
individual sectors, including financial sector reform, procurement and financial administration, providing
valuable sector-specific knowledge. There has been good coordination within the Bank's Paraguay team,
including the field office, the project task manager and the task managers working in individual sectors,
which permitted the balancing of sector expertise with a comprehensive view of the operation. The Bank
has maintained a close working relationship with top government officials as well as with individual
government agencies, maintaining fluid communication at both the policy and operational levels.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank's performance is rated highly satisfactory as it illustrates the central concepts embedded in
the newly adopted Development Policy Lending approach. The rapid processing of the operation points to
high responsiveness to the client's needs, both in terms of providing timely financing and technical
assistance as well as in supporting reforms and actions that had been assigned top priority by the incoming
administration. The performance of the Paraguay team has helped strengthen the Bank's presence in
Paraguay and make a substantial contribution toward the success of the country's reform program.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. The preparation of the loan
was in the hands of qualified professional staff within the Ministry of Finance, which, in turn, was
responsible for coordinating actions with individual areas within the government. Given the large number of
participating agencies and the complex nature of the operation, such coordination required a substantial
effort on the part of the government's preparation team. Throughout the project preparation, top officials
and government staff worked closely with the Bank's project team, contributing high motivation and sound
technical proficiency to the process and, most importantly, demonstrating a high level of ownership of the
reforms and actions being included as part of the operation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Nearly two years after taking office, the
administration boasts a strong record of accomplishments. Not only was the administration able to avert a
major economic crisis, but it also succeeded in making substantial progress towards achieving fiscal
sustainability and improving public sector performance. These strides have been the result of a commitment
to correcting Paraguay's longstanding problems. The reforms and actions supported under the ERL are
central components of the government's agenda and, hence, have its full support. The high level of
ownership on the part of the government of the policy actions supported under the ERL has been perhaps
the single most important factor contributing to the operation's success. There have been a few reversals in
policy over time and some elements of the program that have not been fully implemented, however. The
excise tax on diesel, after having been increased to a level comparable to that of Paraguay's neighbors, was
again reduced, largely as a result of political pressures. Measures to reduce the public sector staffing and to
create an associated compensation fund were not fully implemented, and there are still problems with
inadequate counterpart funding. The presentation to Congress, and the approval by the legislature, of
financial sector reforms have been delayed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Ministry of Finance as the government counterpart for the operation has been
satisfactory. With strong support from the President, the Ministry of Finance exhibited strong leadership
skills, delineating a clear reform strategy. In turn, responsibility for engineering and implementing
individual reforms has been assigned to first-rate professionals. Some of them come from within the public



                                                      - 20 -

bureaucracy, contributing their valuable in-house expertise; others are outsiders who bring in a dose of
enthusiasm and strong implementation capacity. Together, these individuals have challenged vested
interests, shaken institutional inertia and dismantled pockets of corruption, first steps towards a more
efficient and transparent public sector in Paraguay. Nearly two years after the launching of the government
reform program, the Ministry has maintained much of the early momentum, although as noted in the
previous paragraph, there have been some lapses and delays.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.

8. Lessons Learned

There are several lessons that can be learned from this operation, particularly in terms of the elements
needed to ensure the success and sustainability of economic reform programs:


q        Economic crises often open windows of opportunity for reform. Since their adverse impact is
likely to be felt across all segments of society, crises often galvanize diverse interest groups, helping them
come together in their desire to avert or overcome such crises.


q        Timely assistance on the part of the Bank and other international financial institutions can
help reform-minded leaders capitalize on such windows of opportunity. In the case of Paraguay, the
expedient intervention of the Bank and its partners effectively helped the incoming administration prevent
Paraguay's default, giving it enough breathing space to be able to take immediate and medium-term actions
aimed at restoring fiscal stability and implementing long-needed reforms.


q        Strong ownership on the part of national authorities is a necessary condition for the success of
any reform program. In this regard, the early success of Paraguay's reform program, with a strong
ownership on the part of the administration, echoes the experience of reform programs worldwide (see, for
example, the main conclusions of the Assessing Aid report).


q        Bank sector work and operations can contribute substantial value-added to economic reform
programs. While the World Bank's operations cannot `buy' policy improvements, they can contribute not
only financial support but also other valuable ingredients--such as ideas, technical expertise and
credibility--to countries with a genuine commitment toward reform, as illustrated by the experience of the
ERL.


q        The excellence of the Bank depends on the commitment, motivation and high quality of its
staff. The performance of the Bank's team in Paraguay can be considered best practice, as it promptly
recognized the opening of a window of opportunity for reform with the election of the new administration,
proceeded to identify policy options open to the new administration leveraging the Bank's previous work in
the country, obtained the support of management, and prepared and obtained Board approval for both a
new CAS and the ERL within four months of the inauguration of the new administration. This level of
performance on the part of the Bank's team was key to reestablishing an important Bank presence in
Paraguay and contributing toward the success of the country's reform program in general and the ERL in
particular.


q        Valuable synergies can arise from preparing lending operations while simultaneously
conducting policy and sector work. The ERL was conceived as an intrinsic component of the new CAS,
providing both substantial financial incentives and a clear roadmap for the administration's immediate and



                                                       - 21 -

medium-term reform strategy. The preparation of the ERL in conjunction with the CAS not only ensured
full conceptual consistency between the policy and operational levels but also resulted in considerable
economies of scale in time and financial inputs.


q         The ability to build and maintain complex coalitions of support is key to ensuring the success
of any reform program. In this regard, the administration has demonstrated a remarkable ability in
building support from multiple stakeholders for its ambitious reform program, including parties from a
wide political spectrum, economic interests, domestic investors and the international community.


q         There is a delicate balance between the political feasibility and the depth of the reform efforts.
The need to maintain coalitions of support often sets limits on the depth of the reforms, particularly in
terms of the impact that new legislation can have on powerful interest groups. In the case of Paraguay, this
is illustrated by the exceptions granted to teachers, the army and the police in the context of the reform of
the Caja Fiscal. The same is true in the case of the new tax law, which includes a staged
implementation--with several years for the tax law to be fully effective--and tax rates significantly lower
than other countries in the region. However, both the reform of the Caja Fiscal and the tax law constitute a
considerable improvement over the past; moreover, the reform of the Caja Fiscal in particular also paves
the way toward further, more comprehensive reforms in the future. This, in turn, points to the complex
nature of reform processes, which, to be successful, have to foster change, either drastically or
incrementally, and sustain it over time.


q         To assert its credibility, a reform-minded administration needs to demonstrate a critical mass
of achievements during the initial stage of its mandate--the proverbial first 100 days of an
administration. The Duarte Frutos administration moved swiftly after its electoral victory, appointing its
ministers, developing its reform strategy and building coalitions of support well before its inauguration.
Because of the intense preparatory work, the new administration was able to submit to Congress a package
of key pieces of legislation and set in motion far-reaching reforms shortly after it took office, effectively
capitalizing on the initial enthusiasm and consolidating the momentum of its reform program. Likewise, the
identification of a set of key actions to be taken during the first 100 days of the administration was an
important consideration of the Bank's Policy Options Report and the CAS.


q         Strong political determination on the part of government officials needs to be sustained over
the long haul. So far, the Duarte Frutos administration and Congress have exhibited their continuous
commitment toward the reform process. However, as the initial enthusiasm wears off, elections draw nearer
and pressure from interest groups continues to mount, strong political determination will be required on the
part of both the President and Congress to maintain a steady reform course and avoid reversals. The recent
reversal of the increase in the gasoil tax as well as the delays in presenting the banking reform law to
Congress signals that Paraguay's reform program is likely to encounter an icreasingly complex political
environment in the future.


q         Obtaining tangible results from improved public sector management can contribute to the
success of a reform program. As demonstrated by the considerable financial gains resulting from
improved tax and customs administration, the elimination of fraudulent public-sector pensions and
enhanced procurement procedures, actions aimed at increasing efficiency and reducing corruption in public
sector management can generate considerable fiscal surpluses without affecting legitimate interest groups.
Early tangible results also help boost the government's credibility.


q         Top-down strong political support is necessary to foster leadership on the various fronts of



                                                      - 22 -

the reform efforts. In the case of Paraguay, the strong support given to the Minister of Finance by the
President and, in turn, that given by the Minister to those responsible for the implementation of individual
reforms was key in generating leadership synergies at various levels. Highly capable individuals with a
reputation for personal integrity were given responsibility for engineering and implementing key reforms
within the Ministry of Finance. With full support from top officials, these individuals were able to assume
leadership roles, implementing difficult actions aimed at restructuring and modernizing the public sector
apparatus, challenging vested interests, shaking institutional inertia and dismantling pockets of corruption.
The initial success of Paraguay's reform program suggests that successful reform programs depend on not
just one but many leaders. In turn, strong political backing from the top is a necessary condition to unfold
the leadership potential of those responsible for the implementation of the reforms on the various fronts.


q        Increasing the `subjective risk', both within agencies and among the public, can be an
effective strategy to improve performance in the short term. As illustrated by the experience of the tax
administration agency, exemplary actions, such applying stiff sanctions for tax evasion to well-known
companies, can be effective in triggering a spontaneous increase in tax collections, as contributors'
perception of risk is heightened. Exemplary actions, such as the dismissal of corrupt tax inspectors, can
also be effective in reducing corruption within agencies.


q        To sustain the improved performance in the medium and long term, it is necessary to
`institutionalize' the reforms within individual agencies. Specifically, it is necessary to develop and
implement effective, efficient and transparent procedures and information systems that help identify
non-compliance.


q        Adequate human and financial resources are key inputs in the `institutionalization' of reforms
within individual agencies. In this regard, the new customs code has been highly successful, as it provides
financial independence to the customs administration, ensuring it has adequate financial resources and
embedded incentives that are conducive to high performance. Unfortunately, the same financial
independence was not granted to the tax administration, potentially making it more vulnerable during
volatile political environments.


q        Bringing on board reputable non-government organizations (NGOs) can add transparency
and, hence, credibility to the reform process. In the case of Paraguay, agreements have been reached
with local NGOs, such as Transparencia Paraguay, to facilitate citizen participation as a way to eliminate
corruption.


q        The wide dissemination of new management tools and their impact can be an effective
strategy to ensure their sustainability. As illustrated by the new procurement portal and electronic tax
filing capabilities, modern management tools result in greater convenience and reduced costs to users. The
ample dissemination of the availability of such tools can be effective in maximizing their use and generating
a new level of expectations among the public, thus, making their future elimination more unlikely.


q        Balancing fiscal and social objectives is one of the most difficult challenges facing reformers.
Having succeeded in averting a major economic crisis, achieving a more stable fiscal environment and
setting in motion far-reaching reforms aimed at enhancing public sector management, the administration is
now better positioned to address Paraguay's structural social problems, including widespread poverty and a
highly skewed income distribution. The lack of a dialogue and tangible actions addressing these issues
could potentially lead to widespread social unrest, threatening the stability of the overall reform program.




                                                     - 23 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Bank worked in close coordination with the IMF and the IDB to help the incoming administration
confront the lack of liquidity and to support its medium-term program. As discussed above, the government
negotiated a Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF that has been crucial in helping restore fiscal and
monetary stability. In addition, the government negotiated two structural adjustment operations with the
Bank and IDB for a total of US$60 million. The three institutions have also worked closely in providing
technical assistance and monitoring the progress being made on the various fronts of the reform program.
Below are the comments from IDB and the IMF on the progress being made on the IDB loan and the
overall reform program, respectively.

On 17 December 2003, IDB approved the Emergency Social Expenditure Protection Loan (Loan No.
1520/OC-PR), for US$30 million to be disbursed over a period of up to 18 months in two tranches of
US$20 million and US$10 million, respectively. The loan was designed to help the administration mitigate
the effects of the economic crisis on the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population and
prevent setbacks in modernization efforts in an adverse economic climate. Loan conditionality focused on
three areas: (i) good standing on the macroeconomic program agreed with the IMF; (ii) budgetary
protection for programs targeted to the poor and important to the modernization of the country; and (iii)
support for modernization efforts in the social sectors. The first tranche of US$20 million was disbursed in
December 2003. The second tranche has not yet been disbursed. As reported by the IDB, the main
objective of the project, protecting social expenditures, has been already achieved.

The IMF's assessment of the achievements of the administration are described in the chairman's remarks
following the completion of the Fourth Review under the Stand-By arrangement conducted in March 2005.
The IMF commended the authorities for Paraguay's strong overall performance. Prudent
macroeconomic policies and structural reforms have been maintained. According to the IMF,
Paraguay's macroeconomic situation was been better than envisaged under the program, with real
GDP growth accelerating to almost 3 percent in 2004, the highest growth rate in a decade, while
inflation fell below 3 percent, the lowest inflation rate in three decades. The overall fiscal position
of the central government was brought back into surplus, confidence in the banking system
returned, and the foreign exchange market has broadly stabilized. The fiscal outlook has
improved, partly reflecting the congressional passage of the tax reform bill. The IMF praised the
government's efforts at improved tax administration in the internal revenue service and customs
which, in the future, should be consolidated through institutional strengthening. The chairman
also pointed to important pending challenges, such as maintaining fiscal discipline and moving
forward with the structural reform agenda. Unemployment and poverty levels remain high,
underscoring the importance of pressing ahead with the reform agenda. It was also noted that the
structural reform agenda remains ambitious but feasible. Looking ahead, the authorities will need
to reinforce their commitment to reform by further advancing with the difficult task of
restructuring the National Development Bank (BNF). It will also be important to strengthen
governance and the climate for private investment to allow the economy to reach its full growth
potential.


(b) Cofinanciers:




                                                     - 24 -

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

The individuals interviewed in the course of the preparation of this report include:
Government                                            Bank
Manuel Alarcón                                        Peter Hansen
Margarita Díaz de Vivar                               Zeinab Partow
Pedro Espínola Vargas Peña                            John Pollner
Sergio Forte
Fernando Masi                                         Other Organizations
Bernardo Navarro                                      Luis Durán (IMF)
Andreas Neufeld                                       Jorge Domínguez (IDB)
Francisco Ogura                                       Pilar Callizo (Transparencia Paraguay)
Juan Max Rejalaga
Carlos Ríos
César Talavera




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR        Actual/Latest Estimate
NA                             NA                            NA




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR        Actual/Latest Estimate
NA                             NA                            NA




1End of project




                                          - 26 -

Annex 1.a: Log Frame Matrix


                                     MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Policy Objectives                     Policy Actions Required by Board Date                     Result
a. Fiscal Stabilization
To reduce the fiscal deficit of the Existence of an acceptable macroeconomic                 Accomplished
public sector in 2003-2004,         framework.
attaining a primary surplus and
narrowing the financing gap.        Withdrawal of supplemental budget requests               Accomplished
                                    presented to Congress during calendar year
                                    2003, with the exception of requests for the
                                    purpose of external debt payments and social
                                    sectors expenditures.

                                    No increase in central administration salaries by        Accomplished
                                    the new administration during 2003.

                                    Sixty percent of all public employees in the             Accomplished
                                    central administration checked for duplicative
                                    salary payments. Of a total of 125,000 reviews,
                                    1,650 have been identified as holding more than
                                    one job and a system has been set up to
                                    regularize their situation via elimination of extra
                                    positions.

                                    A draft-law for the annual budget for CY 2004            Accomplished
                                    (Presupuesto General de la Nación ­ Ejercicio
                                    Fiscal 2004) consistent with the attainment of a
                                    primary surplus in the central administration to
                                    be submitted to Congress.
b. Taxes
To rationalize and improve the      Increase in the excise tax on diesel oil (gasoil) to    Accomplished but
quality of the tax code, widening   20 percent.                                              later reversed
of tax bases increasing
equitability of taxes and           A draft law on administrative and tax reform             Accomplished
promoting the generation of         (Reordenamiento Administrativo y Adecuación
greater revenues.                   Fiscal) submitted to Congress, including the
                                    following measures: (i) widening of the VAT base
                                    through generalization of VAT to agriculture,
                                    services, and current contributors to the Tributo
                                    Unico; (ii) reduction of exemptions; (iii) increase
                                    in the excise tax on alcohol and cigarettes; (iv)
                                    reduction of the income tax rate on firms; and (v)
                                    a widening of the income tax base.

                                    Adoption of measures to combat tax evasion,              Accomplished
                                    including: (i) the removal of all non-customs
                                    employees from customs areas; (ii) the
                                    elimination of ad-hoc checkpoints along transport
                                    routes; (iii) the creation of a special technical unit
                                    combining staff from the Public Prosecutor's
                                    Office (Ministerio Público) and the ministries of
                                    the Interior, Finance and Industry and Commerce
                                    to improve coordination of efforts on combating
                                    tax evasion and informality of the economy; and
                                    (iv) the launching of an educational and
                                    awareness-raising campaign for tax compliance.




                                                         - 27 -

                                MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (cont.)
Policy Objectives                  Policy Actions Required by Board Date                Result
c. Public Administration and Anti-Corruption
To address the problems of       A draft-law for the annual budget for calendar       Accomplished
widespread corruption, lack of   year 2004 (Presupuesto General de la Nación ­
transparency, high levels of     Ejercicio Fiscal 2004) submitted to Congress,
waste and low efficiency and     with a shift to program-and-results format.
effectiveness in the public
sector, increase fiscal revenue. A draft law for a new Customs Code submitted to      Accomplished
                                 Congress, including measures for renewal and
                                 simplification of administrative procedures,
                                 promotion of selective audits, the granting of
                                 financial autonomy to the Customs
                                 Administration and the professionalization of its
                                 staff.

                                 Enactment of a decree regulating the new Public      Accomplished
                                 Procurement Law and a resolution creating the
                                 Directorate General of Public Procurement
                                 (DGCP), as well as dissemination of the contents
                                 of the regulation.

                                 Adoption of a Procurement Action Plan that           Accomplished
                                 includes development and implementation of: (i)
                                 the institutional and operational framework for
                                 the DGCP and the agency procurement units; (ii)
                                 a human resources development plan; (iii) an
                                 electronic information and procurement system;
                                 and (iv) strengthened contract management.

                                 Agreement with Transparency Paraguay for a set       Accomplished
                                 of actions to improve the transparency in the use
                                 of public resources in the Ministry of Finance.

                                 Launching of a census of employees in the            Accomplished
                                 public sector to determine the number of public
                                 employees and their positions.

                                 Creation of the Central Unit of Public Investment    Accomplished
                                 (Unidad Central de Inversión Pública) in the
                                 Ministry of Finance.

                                 Adoption of a financial management action plan,      Accomplished
                                 including the following measures: (i) introduction
                                 of accrual accounting in the Integrated System of
                                 Financial Management (Sistema Integrado de
                                 Administración Financiera- SIAF); and (ii)
                                 implementation of SIAF in the public
                                 decentralized agencies of the non-financial
                                 sector.

d. Financial Sector
To strengthen the government's   The Deposit Guarantee and Bank Resolution            Accomplished
capacity to manage potential     Fund (Fondo de Garantía de Depósitos y
weaknesses and stresses in the   Resoluciones Bancarias) law approved by
financial system and prevent     Congress and in effect.
crisis contagion by using market
oriented risk-sharing methods
while reducing losses to the
state.




                                                      - 28 -

                               MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (cont.)
Policy Objectives                  Policy Actions Required by Board Date                 Result
e. Public Sector Pension Fund (Caja Fiscal)
To gradually reduce the deficit  Public bidding launched to hire technical             Accomplished
of the Caja Fiscal, increasing   assistance to: (i) design a database for the
the harmonization of benefits    Public Sector Pension System (Caja Fiscal); (ii)
and contributions with existing  digitalize contributor and beneficiary files; and
pension funds.                   (iii) design a process for the restructuring of
                                 contributory and non-contributory pensions.

                                 Public bidding launched to hire technical             Accomplished
                                 assistance to design a process for the
                                 restructuring of contributory and non-contributory
                                 pensions of the Public Sector Pension System
                                 (Caja Fiscal).

                                 A draft law for reforming the Public Sector           Accomplished
                                 Pension System (Caja Fiscal) submitted to
                                 Congress, including the following measures: (i)
                                 increase of the retirement age; (ii) lengthening of
                                 the time period over which the salary base for
                                 pension benefits is calculated; (iii) reduction in
                                 replacement rates for mandatory and early
                                 retirement; (iv) raising of the age and years of
                                 contribution required for early retirement; and (v)
                                 harmonization of contributions and benefits Caja
                                 Fiscal with those of other existing pension funds.




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 1.b: Performance and Monitoring Indicators




                                           - 30 -

                       PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING BENCHMARKS
Implementation
   Benchmarks            Expectations by May 2004                        Actual Performance

a. Fiscal Stabilization
Reduction of the     § Maintenance of an acceptable            · Achieved: The overall public deficit was
fiscal deficit of the   macroeconomic framework                 reduced from 3.1% in 2002 to 0.1%
public sector                                                   percent in 2003, and to a surplus of
                                                                2.4% of GDP in 2004.
                                                               · The government overperformed with
                                                                respect to the fiscal target as
                                                                established in the IMF Stand-By
                                                                agreement (0.2% of GDP), attaining a
                                                                surplus of 1.5% of GDP.
Freeze of central    § Maintenance of the nominal wage bill    · Partially Achieved: The wage bill of the
administration          freeze for permanent employees;         central administration increased by
salaries             § Reduction of wage bill for contracted    about 9% for the period 2003-2004.
                        employees                              · With an inflation rate of 2.8% in 2004,
                                                                the wage bill budgeted for 2004 reflects
                                                                an increase of 9% with respect to 2003.
                                                               · With the exception of salary increases
                                                                in the judiciary, there have been no
                                                                salary increases in the rest of the
                                                                Central Government. The growth in the
                                                                wage bill responds primarily to the need
                                                                to cover the growth of the population in
                                                                education, health and security services.
Identification of    § Review of all public employees          · Partially Achieved: 1,650 employees
illegitimate public     completed, identifying those with       receiving more than one salary have
sector                  multiple salaries; follow-up actions    been identified by the review, with 2/3 of
employment              taken.                                  central government entities providing
                                                                the required information.
                                                               · Approximately 170 of the identified
                                                                employees have resigned. The
                                                                estimated savings resulting from this
                                                                exercise so far amount G$106 million
                                                                per month, or US$ 220,000 per year.
2004 Budget that     § Reductionofadministrative               · Partially Achieved: The number of
includes the            personnel of the central                positions in the central administration
following               administration from 2003 levels         has remained almost constant, with a 1
provisions:                                                     percent increase in the positions
                                                                budgeted in 2004 with respect to 2003.
                     § Reduction of central administration     · No Data Available
                        personnel contracts from 2003 levels
                     § Creation of a compensation fund         · Not Achieved: The provision for
                        (Fondo de Inserción Laboral) to         creating this fund was deleted from the
                        ameliorate the social impact of         2004 budget by Congress.
                        measures reducing public sector
                        staffing
                     § 100% financing of counterpart funds     · Partially Achieved: A request has been
                        for projects with external funding      presented to Congress to increase to
                                                                $G264 billion the amount budgeted for
                                                                counterpart funding in 2004. According
                                                                to the Central Public Investment Unit
                                                                (UCIP), this amount, which is less than
                                                                the anticipated counterpart financing
                                                                needs, reflects the implementation
                                                                capacity of the various project
                                                                implementation units for 2004.




                                                        - 31 -

                  PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING BENCHMARKS (Cont.)
Implementation
 Benchmarks             Expectations by May 2004                      Actual Performance

b. Tax Policy
Tax on diesel fuel § Increase in the excise tax ongasoil    · Not Achieved: The excise tax on diesel
(gasoil)              from 20% to 26%.                       oil was increased from 14% to 20%first
                                                             and later to 26%, as agreed in the
                                                             framework of the ERL. However, this
                                                             tax has been recently lowered to the
                                                             original 14%, reportedly as a temporary,
                                                             measure until international oil prices
                                                             come back down.
Tax reform         § Approval by Congress of Tax Reform     · Achieved: A new tax bill was approved
                      Law (Ley de Reordenamiento             by Congress in July 2004.
                      Administrativo y Adecuación Fiscal)   · It includes significant improvements,
                                                             such as the widening of the tax base,
                                                             the unification of tariffs and a
                                                             considerable reduction of exemptions.
                                                            · The estimated fiscal impact amounts to
                                                             about 1.5% of GDP when it becomes
                                                             full effectiveness--2013 is the time limit
                                                             for full effectiveness.
c. Public Administration and Anti-Corruption
Program-and-       § Congress to approve program-and-       · In Progress: The 2004 Budget was
results budget        results budget.                        prepared using the program-and-results
                   § Ten central ministries develop          methodology. For the time being, the
                      detailed financial plans for           evaluation of results runs in parallel to
                      implementation of 2004 budget,         the budget.
                      linking disbursements to program      · Five entities will fully implement the
                      objectives.                            newly adopted methodology in 2005 as
                                                             a pilot experience.
New Customs        § Approval by Congress of a new          · Achieved: A new Custom Code was
Code                  Customs Code.                          approved in July 2004.
                                                            · It results in the modernization and
                                                             simplification of administrative
                                                             procedures, stiffer sanctions, lower user
                                                             costs and the financial autonomy of the
                                                             customs administration.
Procurement        § Progress in the implementation of a    · Achieved: A new online procurement
procedures            Procurement Action Plan.               portal is now in place, which posts the
                                                             annual procurement plans for state
                                                             institutions, bidding documents, all
                                                             public procurement notices and a list of
                                                             ineligible and black-listed contractors.
Transparency       § Report from Transparency Paraguay      · Achieved: A report has been submitted
Paraguay              on implementation of the agreement     describing the involvement of
                      with the Ministry of Finance.          Transparency Paraguay in public
                                                             education campaigns in the areas of
                                                             procurement and taxes.
Census of public   § Finalization of the public sector      · Achieved: The census was completed
sector employees      employee census.                       in April 2004.
Public Investment  § StaffingandoperationoftheCentral       · Achieved: The new UCIP, responsible
Unit                  Public Investment Unit (UCIP).         for the coordination of externally
                                                             financed projects, is now in place.
Financial          § Progress on the adopted Financial      · In Progress: Considerable advances
Management Plan       Management Action Plan.                are being made in this area, including
                                                             the implementation of an integrated
                                                             financial management system (SIAF).




                                                     - 32 -

                    PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS (cont.)
   Implementation
     Benchmarks          Expectations by May 2004                   Actual Performance

d. Financial Sector
Financial Sector Reform § Completion of the financial     · In Progress: Two financial sector reform
                           sector measures and             laws--the Restructuring and
                           reforms as included in the      Consolidation of State-Owned Banks
                           proposal Financial Sector       Law and the Anti-Money Laundering
                           Adjustment Loan (FSAL).         Law--have been presented to
                                                           Congress..
e. Public Sector Pension Fund (Caja Fiscal)
Census of public sector § Updating of the database of     · In Progress: Substantial progress has
pension system             public sector pension and       been made in the digitalization of
beneficiaries              progress in the                 digitalization of the files of 55,000
                           reorganization of the unit in   beneficiaries of the Caja Fiscal--32,000
                           charge of affairs related to    pensioners and 23,000 veterans and
                           the Caja Fiscal, and the        their survivors.
                           submission of a preliminary    · Ongoing efforts to purge the registry of
                           report, by the contracted       beneficiaries have resulted in the
                           firm, on the status and         elimination of 3, 413 beneficiaries since
                           issues related to current       August 2003, resulting in estimated
                           management of the Caja          annual savings of G26.7 billion (US$4.5
                           Fiscal.                         million).
                                                          · The firm Price-Waterhouse has
                                                           submitted a preliminary report that
                                                           includes a diagnosis for the restructuring
                                                           of the Caja Fiscal and the
                                                           computerization of its databases.
Public Sector Pension   § Approval by Congress of a       · Achieved: A Law reforming the Caja
Reform                     law reforming the Caja          Fiscal was approved in December 2003,
                           Fiscal.                         lengthening the time period over which
                                                           the salary base for pension benefits is
                                                           calculated, increasing the rate of
                                                           contribution and the salary base over
                                                           which contributions are made, reducing
                                                           replacement rates, eliminating the
                                                           aguinaldo and gradually raising the age
                                                           and years of contribution required for
                                                           early retirement.
                                                          · The fiscal impact of the reform has been
                                                           substantial. At the end of 2004, the fiscal
                                                           deficit of the contributing pensions for
                                                           2004 had decreased by 15 percent with
                                                           respect to 2003.




                                                   - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A




                                      - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count             Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               9/2003                         2     2 economists
               10/2003                        4     2 economists, 1 public sector
                                                    spec., 1 pension spec.,

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/2003                        3     2 economists, 1 lawyer

 Supervision
               5/2004                          2    informal "supervision" - 1
                                                    economist, 1 procurement
                                                    spec.


 ICR
               9/2004                         2      2 economists



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   6.375                         24288.10
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         3.85                          13648.4
  Supervision                                  3.122                         13247.73
  ICR                                             3.5                        11015.29
  Total                                         19.2                         62199.52


"Staff" does not include consultants' time or cost which amounted to $21,435.63 in total.




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Inter-American Development Bank (2003), Social Protection Program for Paraguay (Pr-0147) - Loan
    Proposal, Washington, D.C.
Ministry of Finance (2004), Código Aduanero: Ley No. 2.422/04, July 2004, Dirección Nacional de
    Aduanas, República del Paraguay, Asunción.
Ministry of Finance (2004), Rendición de Cuentas: Informe de Gestión 2003/2004, 15 August 2004,
    Republic of Paraguay, Asunción.
Ministry of Finance (2004), Paraguay: Informe de Coyuntura Fiscal: Situación Financiera de la
    Administración Central, Julio 2004, Republic of Paraguay, Asunción.
Ministry of Finance (2003), Paraguay: Informe de Coyuntura Fiscal: Situación Financiera de la
    Administración Central, December 2003, Republic of Paraguay, Asunción.
Ministry of Finance (2003), Paraguay: Informe de Coyuntura Fiscal: Situación Financiera de la
    Administración Central, Julio 2003, Republic of Paraguay, Asunción.
International Monetary Fund (2004), Article IV Consultation with Paraguay, Public Information Notice
    (PIN) No. 04/103, 16 September 2004, Washington, D.C.
International Monetary Fund (2004), IMF Executive Board Completes Second Review Under Paraguay
    Stand-By Arrangement, Press Release No. 04/165, 2 August 2004, Washington, D.C.
International Monetary Fund (2004), IMF Executive Board Completes First Review Under Paraguay
    Stand-By Arrangement, Press Release No. 04/74, 12 April 12 2004, Washington, D.C.
Price-Waterhouse-Cooper (2004), Reingeniería del Sistema de Gestión de Jubilados y Pensionados de la
    Dirección General de Jubilaciones y Pensiones del Ministerio de Hacienda: Informe de Diagnóstico,
    Febrero 2004 Asunción, Paraguay.
World Bank (2004a), From Adjustment Lending to Development Policy Lending: Update of World Bank
    Policy, 16 August 2004, Operations Policy and Country Services, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2004b), Draft Program Document for a Proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan,
    Report No. 23996-PA, 29 July 2004, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2003), Program Document for a Proposed Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan,
    Report No. 27172-PA, 2 December 2003, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2003), Paraguay: Country Strategy Assistance, Report No. 27341-PA, 26 November 2003,
    Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2003), Paraguay: Policy Options for the New Administration: Creating Conditions for
    Sustainable Growth, Report No. 25894-PA, Vol. I and II, 6 June 2003, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1998), Assessing Aids: What Works, What Doesn't, and Why, World Bank Policy Research
    Report, Oxford University Press: New York.




                                                 - 39 -

- 40 -

