Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7210-PA
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between the 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 16, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7210-PA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF 
PARAGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
November 19, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan  as 
hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit a
ccount.” 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Central Administration” means the Borrower’s Executive, Judicial and 
Legislative Powers, the Comptroller General, the Office of the Public Defender
,
and the 
Treasury;
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Guaraníes” means the currency of the Borrower; and 
 
(d) “
Unidad Central Normativa y Técnica
”
means the unit established by 
Law 205/2003 regulated by Decree No. 21909/2003 where
 
said unit  is defined as 
Dirección General de Contrataciones Públicas 
 (DGCP). 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of  twenty nine million 
seven hundred thousand Dollars ($29,700,000)  from the Loan Account in support of the 
Program.  
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.  
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
Page  5
-
4
-
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07.  Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Caps or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that 
the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
Page  6
-
5
-
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program.  
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievements of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date March 15, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance  
(
Ministerio de Hacienda
)
Chile 128 casi Palma 
Asunción, Paraguay 
 
 
Facsimile: 595 (21) 448-283  
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
By  /s/ Dionisio Borda 
Minister of Finance 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold ores 
 
and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15 2009 
 
through April 15 2026 
2.78 % 
 
On October 15, 2026 
2.70 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower’s executive branch  has withdrawn supplemental budget requests 
presented to the Borrower’s Congress during calendar year 2003 for an amount of 
Guaraníes
 197,223,910,919 with the exception of requests for the purpose of external 
debt payments and social sectors expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has not increased Central Administration salaries as evidenced by 
budget execution reports corresponding to the period August to October 2003. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has ensured that 60% (totaling 125,000) of all public employees  in 
Central Administration agencies have been checked for duplicative salary payments.  
1,650 have been identified as holding more than one job, and the Borrower has set up a 
system to regularize their situation via elimination of extra positions.  
 
4.  
The Borrower has increased the excise tax on diesel oil to 20% by issuance of 
Decree No. 21799, dated July 28, 2003. 
 
5. A 
draft-
law for the Borrower’s national annual budget for calendar year 2004 
(
Presupuesto General de la Nación – Ejercicio Fiscal
 2004) has been submitted to 
Congress, and such budget is consistent with the attainment of a primary surplus in the 
Central Administration and shifts to program and results format. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has adopted measures to combat tax evasion, including: (i) the 
removal of all non-customs employees from customs areas; (ii) the elimination of ad-hoc 
checkpoints along transport routes; (iii) the creation of a special technical unit combining 
staff from the Public Prosecutor’s Office (
Ministerio Público
), and the ministries of the 
Interior, Finance and Industry and Commerce in order to improve coordination of efforts 
on combating tax evasion and informality of the Borrower
’s economy; and (iv) the 
launching of an educational and awareness-raising campaign for tax compliance, all by 
means of the following Borrower’s decrees: (i) Decree No. 87, dated August 19, 2003; 
(ii) Decree No. 88, dated August 19, 2003; (iii) Decree No. 527, dated October 9, 2003; 
and  (iv) Inter-ministerial Cooperation Agreement entered into between the Minister of 
Finance and the Minister of Education and Culture on September 25, 2003. 
 
7. 
A draft law for a new Customs Code has been submitted to Congress, including 
measures for renewal and simplification of administrative procedures, promotion of 
selective audits, the granting of financial autonomy to the Customs Administration and 
the professionalization of its staff. 
 
8. 
A draft law on administrative and tax reform (
Reordenamiento Administrativo y 
Adecuación Fiscal) 
has been submitted to Congress
,
including the following measures: 
(i) widening of the value added tax (VAT) base through generalization of VAT to 
Page  15
-
14
-
agriculture, services, and current contributors to the 
Unified Tax (Tributo Unico)
;
(ii) 
reduction of exemptions; (iii) increase in the excise tax on alcohol and cigarettes; (iv) 
reduction of the income tax rate on firms and a widening of the income tax base.  
 
9. 
Regarding public sector procurement, the Borrower has: (i) issued  Decree No. 
21909, dated August 11, 2003 for the regulation of Law No. 2051/2003; (ii) issued 
Ministerial Resolution No. 138, dated October 15, 2003 which creates the Directorate 
General of Public Procurement (DGCP) in the Ministry of Finance; and (iii) ensured that 
the contents of Decree No. 21909  mentioned under 9 (i) above, has been disseminated. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has adopted a Procurement Action Plan that includes development 
and implementation of: (i) the institutional and operational framework for the DGCP and 
the agency procurement units; (ii) a human resources development plan; (iii) an 
electronic information and procurement system; and (iv) strengthened contract 
management. 
 
11. 
The Borrower has signed an agreement with Transparency Paraguay for actions 
to improve the transparency of public resource use in the Ministry of Finance on 
September 5, 2003. 
 
12. 
A Census  of employees in the public sector has been launched by means of 
Decree No. 265, dated September 11, 2003 in order to determine the number of public 
employees and their positions.  
 
13. 
The Borrower has created  the Central Unit of Public Investment in the Ministry 
of Finance (
Unidad Central de Inversión Pública) 
by means of Ministerial Resolution 
No. 78, dated September 25, 2003.  
 
14. 
The Borrower has adopted a financial management action plan, including the 
following measures : (i) introduction of accrual accounting in the Integrated System of 
Financial Management (
Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera
 (SIAF)) 
system; and (ii) implementation of SIAF in the public decentralized agencies of the non-
financial sector.
 
15. 
The Borrower’s Deposit Guarantee and Bank Resolution Fund (
Fondo de 
Garantía de Depósitos y Resoluciones Bancarias
)
is in effect. 
 
16. 
Public bidding has been launched to hire technical assistance to:  (i) design a 
database for the Borrower’s Public Sector Pension System (
Caja Fiscal)
 and to digitalize 
contributor and beneficiary files; and (ii) design a process  for the restructuring of 
contributory and non-contributory pensions of said System.
 
17. 
A draft law for reforming the Public Sector Pension System  has been submitted 
to Congress, including the following measures: (i) increase of the retirement age; (ii) 
lengthening of the time period over which the salary base for pension benefits is 
Page  16
-
15
-
calculated; (iii) reduction in replacement rates for mandatory and early retirement; (iv) 
raising of the age and years of contribution required for early retirement; and (v) 
harmonization of contributions and benefits of  the Public Sector Pension System with 
those of other existing pension funds. 
 
