Page  1
May 12, 1994
H.E. Paul Dossou
Minister of Finance
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Re:
Credit No. 2529 BEN
Second Rural Savings and Loan Cooperatives Rehabilitation 
Project
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of 
Benin (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association) dated September 3, 1993 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the 
above mentioned Project, and to your letter dated April 5, 1994 requesting certain 
changes in the mobilization of funds destined to the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes.to this request 
and, consequently, proposes to hereby amend the Development Credit Agreement as 
follows:
1.
Section 1.02 (i) is amended to read: "Special Account" means either of the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement and "Special Accounts" 
means both such accounts collectively; and "SGSAs" means the Second Generation 
Special Accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement";
2.
Section 2.02 (c) is amended to read: "The Borrower shall, for the purposes of 
the Project, open and maintain in CFAF two special deposit accounts, an 'IDA 
Special Account' for the Credit and a 'Swiss Special Account' for the Swiss 
Contribution, each in the Banque Centrale des Etats des l'Afrique de l'Quest, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, 
and withdrawals out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement";
3.
A new Subsection (d) is inserted after Section 2.02 (c) to read: "The 
Borrower
shall, for the purposes of the Project, cause the Federation to open and maintain 
in CFAF
two special deposit accounts (SGSAs), an 'IDA SGSA' for the Credit and a 'Swiss 
SGSA'
for the Swiss Contribution, in a commercial bank or banks acceptable to the 
Association
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (including appropriate 
protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment). Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
IDA SGSA
and the Swiss SGSA shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this
Agreement";
4.
Section 4.01 (b) (i) is amended by adding the words "and the Second 
Generation
Special Accounts" after the words "Special Accounts" appearing therein;
5.
In Schedule 3:
5.1
Part D. 1 (a) is amended by the deletion of the words "the Special 
Account" and the substitution thereof of the words "Second Generation Special 
Accounts", as well as by the deletion of the words "Special Account" and the 
substitution thereof of the words "Second Generation Special Accounts".
5.2
Part D 1 (b) is amended by deleting the words "Special Account" and 
substituting therefor the words "Second Generation Special Accounts".
Page  2
6.
Schedule 4 is amended to read in its entirety as set out in Attachment 1 to 
this
letter.
If you agree to such amendments, please indicate such agreement by signing 
and dating the enclosed duplicate original of this letter in the space provided 
below and returning it to us for our records. This amendment shall come into force 
and effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes 
effective.
Sincerely,
Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Occidental and Central
Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Paul Dossou
Date:  June 9, 1994
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts and Second Generation Special 
Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the Special Account 
"IDA" and Category 3 for the Special Account "Swiss";
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the IDA 
Special Account; and (ii) an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Swiss Contribution Account and deposited into the Swiss Special Account, 
all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
The Borrower shall transfer any amount deposited into the Special Accounts 
from the Credit Account into the SGSAs within seven days of the deposit of such 
amount into the Special Accounts. No other payments shall be made out of the 
Special Accounts. Payments out of the SGSAs shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Accounts and the SGSAs have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests prepared by the Federation for a 
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution 
Page  3
Account and deposit into the appropriate Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests prepared by the Federation 
for deposits into the Special Accounts at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account under the respective 
eligible Categories and deposit into the appropriate Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the SGSAs for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or 
the Swiss Contribution Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Federation out of the SGSAs, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account 
or the Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss 
Contribution allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts and the SGSAs as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the SGSAs; (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association; (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the SGSAs (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts or in the SGSAs will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  4
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts or 
in the SGSAs.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
