FOFFICIAL1
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2529 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Savings and Loan
Cooperatives Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated 4j4;;i        3 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2529 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     44;Ae4 3               , 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has obtained from the Government of the
Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution
(the Swiss Contribution) in an amount of three million Swiss francs
.(SwF 3,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution
Agreement) between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(C)   Switzerland has appointed the Association to administer
the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of a
Procedural Arrangement, dated April 9, 1987 (the Arrangement)
between Switzerland and the Association, and the Association has
accepted such appointment;
(D)  'the Borrower irtends to contract from other sources (the
Cofinanciers) grants or credits (the Cofinancing) in an amount
equivalent to $4,300,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in various agreements (the
Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and c6nditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ART'ICL.E
Generail Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"  of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of thls Agreement.
0d


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "the CLCAMs" means Caisses Locales d& qr6dit Agricole
Mutuel, local branches of the rural savings and loan cooperatives of
Benin;
(b)   "the URCLCAMs" me .ns Unions Rftionales des Caisses
Locales de Credit Agricole Mutuel, tho regional unions of the CLCAMs
to be established under Part B of the Project;
(c)   "the Federation" means the federation of the URCLCAMs to
be established under Part A of the Project;
(d)   "the  Technical   Secretariat"  means   the  Technical
Secretariat of the Federation;
(e)   "Network" means, collectively, the CLCAMs, the URCLCAMs,
the Federation and the Technical Secretariat which, altogether,
constitute the mutualist system;
(f) "Coll6ge des Pr6sidents" means the council of presidents
of the Caisses Rftionales des Credits Agricoles Mutuels,        the
regional brancl-ss of the rural savings and loan cooperatives of
Benin;
(g)   "the CPU" means the Central Project Unit established to
supervise and coordinate the execution of the Rural Savings and Loan
Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 2086 BEN) financed partly under
a Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
Association dated June 11, 1990;
(h)   "Statement QI Policy" means the document adopted by the
Colleae des Pr-idents on February 7, 1993, as modified on March 17,
1993 by the Co._ ge des Pr6sidents, containing the general policy of
the Network, its operating procedures and the Statutes of the
Federation;
(i)   "Special Account" means either of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement and "Special Accounts"
means both such accounts collectively;


﻿-3-
(j)   "CFAF"  means  Franc  de   la  Communaut&  Financiere
Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and other members of
the West African Monetary Union; and
(k)   "Swiss  Contribution  Account"   means   the  account
established  by   Switzerland  for  the  purpose   of  the  Swiss
Contribution.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and         the  Swiss
Contribution.
(b)   Except  as  Switzerland  and  the Association   shall
otherwise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the 8wiss
Contribution shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provisions
of the General Conditions.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Federation to open and maintain in CFAF two special
deposit accounts, an "IDA Special Account" for the Credit and a
"Swiss Special Account" for the Swiss Contribution, both in a bank
or banks acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
&ut of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time, at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of.three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2003 and ending May 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2013
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the


﻿-5-
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amoant of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall cause the Federation to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and it, conformity with
appropriate practices and shall provide promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Federation as a grant.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1993 or such later date as
the Association shall agree, cause the CLCAMs to establish the
Federation in accordance with the Statement of Policy and in a form
acceptable to the Association; and
(b)   upon establishment of said Federation, convert the CPU
into a Technical Secretariat of such Federation.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower and the
Association shall carry out a mid-term evaluation of the progress
achieved in carrying out the Project not later than September 30,
1996. The recommendations of such evaluation, once approved by the
Borrower and the Association, shall be implemented by the Borrower
with due diligence. The review shall cover, inter alia: (a)
management of the Project; and (b) progress made in achieving
Project objectives, in particular, the networks's progress towards
achieving financial viability, adequacy of its operational policies,
sustainability of its institutional structure and management, and
the adequacy of the percentages of expenditures financed by the
Credit as set forth under Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect
to the financial performance of the network.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the performance of
the Financial Controller and the Executive Secretary of the
Federation to be reviewed by the Board of Directors of the
Federation by September 30, 1994; and (b) not later than three
months after the Board of Directors' recommendation shall have been
accepted by the Association, cause the Technical Secretariat to
implement such recommendation.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   cause  the  Network  to  conduct   its  operations  in
accordance with the lending policies set forth in the Statement of
Policy;
(b)   allow the Network full autonomy in:
(i)   the hiring, dismissal and remuneration of its
staff subject to the Borrower's eaployment and
labor laws; and


﻿-7-
(ii)   the determination of interest rates in savings
and loan transactions subject to the Borrower's
usury laws;
(c)   take all required steps to prevent interference by any
of its local or regional political and administrative authorities in
the financial and credit operations of the CLCAMs;-and
(d)   throughout the execution of the Project, exempt from any
taxes the interest revenue earned on the pooled liquidity resources
of the CLCAMs.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1993,
establish and thereafter maintain throughout the execution of the
Project, a Comit6 de Concertation composed of representatives of the
Borrower, the Federation and the Cofinanciers to resolve issues
concerning the application of the Statement of Policy and the
execution of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Federation to
furnish to the Association in each year:
(a)   by August 15, a draft annual work program and budget for
the subsequent fiscal year for approval. The draft annual work
program shall include details of: (i) the training program; (ii)
monitoring targets; (iii) commitments and expected disbursements;
and (iv) major issues regarding project implementation; and
(b)   by September 30, a final annual work program and budget
acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and cause the
Network to maintain, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of tha departments or
agercies of the Borrower responsible for carryipsg out the Project or
any part thereof and of the Network.


﻿-8-
(b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause the Network to:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year
audi 'ed, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall and shall cause the Network to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that   all records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii),  enable  the   Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Loi number 89-014 dated May 12, 1989, of the Borrower
has been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the CLCAMs to carry out the
Project or their operations;
(b)   the Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated or repealed without the prior approval of the
Association; and                         I
(c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof; or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
maturing is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistnt with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii); and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Borrower and the Collfge des Pr6sidents have executed a Subsidiary
Agreement acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement
has been duly authorized by the Borrower and the Coll&ge des
Pr6sidents, has been duly executed and delivered in their name and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and the College des Pr6sidents
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. In the event that Switzerland or the Association
decides to terminate the functions of the Association as
Administrator pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Arrangement, the
Association shall notify the Borrower promptly of the date on which
Switzerland shall assume the rights and obligations of the
Association as Administrator under this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou, Benin
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFINANCES              MINFIN 5009 or
Cotonou                        5289
Fax:
30 1851
31 5356
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By  /    /          e-4"
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
By  /444/aL4V
q   Regianal Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount          Swiss
of the         Contri-
Credit          bution           % of
Allocated       Allocated       Expendi-
(Expressed    (Expressed in       tures
in SDR        Swiss Francs      to be
Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)       Financed
(1) Development         500,000                      60% for
costs of                                        expenditures
the URCLAMs                                     incurred up to
December 31,
1994; 50% for
expenditures
incurred up to
December 31,
1995; 40% for
expenditures
incurred up to
December 31,
1996; 35% for
expenditures
incurred up to
December 31,
1997; and 30%
thereafter.
(2) Development       2,100,000                      85%
cost of the
Federation


﻿- 14 -
Amount          Swiss
of the         Contri-
Credit          bution           % of
Allocated       Allocated        Expendi-
(Expressed    (Expressed in       tures
in SDR        Swiss Francs      to be
Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)       Financed
(3) Consultants'                      3,000,000       100%
services
(4) Unallocated         200,000
TOTAL            2,800,000       3,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "development cost"
means expenditures for contractual staff salaries, vehicles'
maintenance, materials, office supplies, training and services.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made     in  respect of payments made     for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to further strengthen the
mutual rural financial intermediation system in the territory of the
Borrower and the institutions of such system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Establishment of the Federation and conversion of the CPU into
the Technical Secretariat in order to provide overall management,
guidance, monitoring and financial control services to the
Federation.
Part B:
Establishment of the URCLCAMs and strengthening of their
capacity to provide development services to the CLCAMs with respect
to accounting and financial management, training of staff and
promotion of the mutualist network.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for materials and office
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Benin may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Materials and office equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Materials and office equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
'Association.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for materials and office
equipment estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $30,000 the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with    the other information   required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of. the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and the Federation in carrying
out the Profect, the Borrower shall or shall cause the Federation to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to CFAF 100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the IDA Special Account; and (ii) an
amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposited into the Swiss Special Account,
all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account and deposit into
the appropriate Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account


﻿- 19 -
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account and
deposit into the appropriate Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into either Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution allocated to the eligible Categories, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with


﻿- 20 -
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss
Contribution Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
naot so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


