Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15537-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
September 24, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 3 1, 1996)
Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
US$1.00   = Dong I 1,018
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EFD          External Finance Department under the Ministry of Finance
GDDI         General Department for Development Investment
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOT          Ministry of Transport
MI          Ministry of Planning and Investment
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
OM           Operational Manual
PDOT         Provincial Department of Transport
PID          Project Implementation Division under PMU 18
PPMU         Provincial Project Management Unit
PMU 18       Project Management Unit 18 under the Ministry of Transport
SBV          State Bank of Vietnam
SOE          Statement of Expenditure



THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agency:             The Ministry of Transport
Beneficiarv:                     Not applicable
Poverty:                         Program of Targeted Interventions. The project
will benefit 15 poor provinces with per capita
income that are about half the countrys average.
About 5 million people will benefit directly or
indirectly from the project. Investment in the
least-cost rural transport infrastructure is most
needed and will have the greatest impact on
market integration and poverty reduction.
Amount:                          SDR 37.8 million (US$55.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' matufity
Commitment Fee:                  0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                  See paragraph 3.28
Economic Rate of Return:         32 percent
Map:                             IBRD No. 27315
Project Identification No.:      39021



I



THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ...............................................................................                    i
1  BACKGROUND...........................................................................................................
A. ECONoMIC  GROWTH AND RURAL POVERTY  ......................................................
B. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND POVERTY
ALLEVIATION ..............................................................................                       1
C. RATIONALE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION INVOLVEMENT.. 2
D.  PAST IDA  EXPERiENCE IN ViETNAM  ................................                   ................................. 3
2. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR IN VIETNAM ... 5
A.  THE ROAD NETWORK . .............................................................................. 5
B. RURAL TRAFFIC ............................                    .................................................. 7
C. ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT AND ITS
RELATIONSHP WITH CENTRAL GOVERNMENT .................................................... 8
D. RURAL ROAD MAINTENANCE ............................................................................ 9
3. TB          PROJECT .............................................................................. 10
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND FORMULATION .                            .............................................................. 10
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .                             .......................................................... 10
Project Objectives and Monitoring Indicators ............................................ 10
Project Description ...............................................................................      1 1
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ....................................................................... 17
4. ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT ................................................................. 19
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ..............................................................................    19
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ................................                        ................................. 20
C. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS ....................... 22
D. PROCUREMENT ..............................................................................                       22
E. DISBURSEMENT ..............................................................................                      25
F. ACCOUNTiNG AND AUDITING ........................................................................... 27
G. PROJECT MONITORING AND IDA  SUPERVISION  ...............                                ................................ 27
This project was appraised by a Task Team consisting of Mne./ Messrs. Supee Teravaninthorn
(Team Leader/Task Manager), Wael Zakout (Environmental Engineer), Carlos Escudero (Sr.
Counsel), Lars Lund (Resettlement Specialist), Robert Crooks (Environmental Specialist), Jean-
Claude Sallier (Infrastructure Engineer, Consultant), Cuong Hung Pham (Civil Engineer). Bernard
Peccound (AF4IN) and Jacques Cellier (LAIIU) were peer reviewers. The Division Chief is Jeffirey
Gutman (EA1AE) and the Director is Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (EAI). Task support was
provided by Sarian Wilkinson.



5. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS, AND  RISKS                            ..................................... 28
A. OVERViEW  ................................................... 28
B. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................................... 28
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT                       ................................................... 30
C. LAND AcQuiSITION AND INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT ................                    ................. 30
D. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES AND ETHNIC MINORITiES ..............................................  3 1
E. SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................... 31
F. RISKS ................................................                                        32
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATION .                                       ....................................... 33
A. AGREEmNTS ................................................ 33
During Negotiations the Government Submitted ....................................... 33
Agreements Reached During Negotiations ................................................ 33
Conditions of Effectiveness ................................................            34
Conditions of Disbursement ................................................             34
B. RECOMMENDATION ................................................                               34
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 2.1         Road Network by Jurisdiction and Pavement Type, June 1992.                               6
Table 3.1         Project Cost Summary ..................................                                 17
Table 3.2   Project Financing by Components .18
Table 4.1    Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .23
ANNEXES
Annex 1:          Provincial Revenue and Expenditure in Selected Provinces .35
Annex 2:   Key Project Monitoring Indicators .36
Annex 3:   Rural Roads Information System .37
Annex 4:          Rural Transport Strategy Study Terms of Reference .39
Annex 5:  Project Cost Estimates .45
Annex 6:          Outline Terms of Reference for Implementation Advisor .50
Annex 7:    Typical Bill of Quantities for Spot Improvement .54
Annex 8:   Estimate Disbursement Schedule .55
Annex 9:   Report and Funds Flow Mechanism .56
Annex 10:  Supervision Plan .57
Annex 11:  Road Network Analysis .58
Annex 12:  Economic and Cost-Benefit Analysis .62
Map IBRD 27315



THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. ECONOMIC GROWTH AND RURAL POVERTY
1.1   Although Vietnam has undergone a period of successful macroeconomic reform, its
overall economic indicators still show a high incidence of poverty. Since the late 1980s the
country has gone through a series of structural reforms and adjustments to external shocks
occasioned by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The economic reform program led to signs
of economic recovery and to rapid economic growth averaging more than 8 percent a year
by 1992. Growth may increase to 9 percent a year for the rest of the decade. This
continued economic growth is contributing to the reduction of poverty. However,
according to IDA analyses, the country's poverty rate remains high, at a rate of 50 percent,
although this rate is less than the 80 percent rate of a decade ago.
1.2   Vietnam has a population of 72 million people and a per capita GDP of US$250,
with marked differences in living standards between urban and rural areas. The Vietnam
Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report (Report No. 13442-VN) estimates that 26 percent
of the urban population falls below the poverty line, whereas 57 percent of the rural
population is below the minimum subsistence level. Moreover, urban areas are growing
more quickly than rural areas, and thus poverty reduction will occur there more quickly. In
addition to urban-rural differences, there are regional differences in Vietnam's poverty
profile. In the southeast 33 percent of the population is in poverty, whereas the rate in the
north central coast is 71 percent and in the northern uplands, 59 percent. Exacerbating the
poverty problem, the poorest regions of the country have particularly low growth rates. So
prospects for significant poverty reduction - without additional efforts - appear slim.
Although some parts of Vietnam may be difficult to develop economically, many other areas
could be highly productive if they received appropriate investments to encourage more
dynamic participation in the market economy.
B. TEE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND POVERTY
ALLEVIATION
1.3   Analysis of the 1995 Vietnam Living Standards Survey offers useful insights into the
development of Vietnam's rural development strategy. First, areas where households are
more economically diversified have higher living standards. Second, areas with higher
agricultural productivity are more diversified. These findings are consistent with the
experience of other East Asian countries - that is, higher agricultural productivity leads to
higher farm income, stimulates demand for off-farm goods and services, and leads to greater
off-farm employment opportunities. With an average of 900 people on each square
kilometer of agricultural land, the long-term solution for rural employment will have to be



- 2 -
off the farm. The Living Standards Survey also indicates that people who live near an all-
weather road have higher living standards than others. Rural roads facilitate access to
better agricultural technology, more efficient marketing of agricultural surplus, and greater
opportunity in other economic activities.
1.4   As a result of the poverty assessment report and the Living Standards Survey, the
Govemment has placed development of rural areas at the forefront of its poverty alleviation
effort, with particular emphasis on areas of solid growth potential within the poorest
regions. One of the important initiatives to start the campaign for rural development is the
provision of economic infrastructure, including rural transport infrastructure. Therefore,
rehabilitation of the wide network of rural roads that exists throughout Vietnam - and that
over decades of war and economic hardship has deteriorated badly - has recently become
one of the Government's investment priorities.
C. RATIONALE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION INVOLVEMENT
1.5   Because poor rural transport conditions are impeding rural development, the
Government has requested Bank's assistance (through the Intemational Development
Association, or IDA) on a rural transport development program. This request is consistent
with the Vietnam Poverty Assessment Strategy Report and with IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam discussed at the Board on November 21, 1995. The goal set
forth in the CAS is to promote broadly based economic development and to combat
poverty. Two of five areas of involvement strategy are to take the lead among donors in
assisting the Govermment to plan and finance infrastructure development and to develop and
implement a strategy for poverty alleviation.
1.6   IDA has a two-pronged approach to road development and upgrading in Vietnam.
Nationally the priority for the country, IDA, the Asian Development Bank, and other
bilateral donors is to rehabilitate the main trunk road network from China in the north to
Cambodia in the south. The IDA-assisted Highway Rehabilitation Project (US$168 million)
has been part of that joint effort. At the rural level the ultimate target of IDA assistance is
to upgrade the core rural road network to all-weather roads.
1.7   The proposed Rural Transport Project contributes directly to infrastructure
development and to the country's effort in rural development and poverty alleviation. The
poverty-focused tasks included in the project are designed to ensure that the poor
participate in the growth process. IDA's support to rural development in Vietnam will
stand on four pillars that together provide the overall enabling environment for the rural
economy: infrastructure, finance, technical support to agricultural diversification, and
human resource development. The Rural Transport Project will focus primarily on road
rehabilitation in some of the poorest parts of the country (see attached map). Because more
than three-quarters of the poor (76 percent) in Vietnam are concentrated among the farming
population, antipoverty interventions must give high priority to reaching agricultural
households to achieve any significant impact. The poverty assessment report confirms that
lack of rural infrastructure and inadequate access to markets and other essential support
services are among the crucial factors contributing to the persistent poverty and widespread



- 3 -
malnutrition in rural Vietnam. The strategy for reducing poverty, therefore, includes rural
infrastructure investment that will benefit the rural economy through improved access and
lower transport cost; the proposed project is designed to do just that. These investments
will be complemented by those in the education and health sectors as well as projects in
rural finance and agricultural diversification, which are essential for improving the efficiency
of rural labor and the welfare of Vietnamese families.
D. PAST ]]DA EXPERIENCE IN VIETNAM
1.8   So far, only one IDA-assisted project has been completed in Vietnam, the Dau
Tieng Irrigation Project (Cr. 845-VN), which was approved in August 1978 and closed in
1986. The Dau Tieng Irrigation Project Completion Report emphasized that a project's
major works should be adequately designed prior to project implementation and that
external technical assistance in procurement and construction supervision is essential to
overcome problems of inexperience with international procedures faced by a new borrower.
Other lessons highlighted by IDA's experience in rural roads are indicated in Rural Roads
Maintenance - Review of Completed IDA Operations (Report 10794). According to the
report, routine and periodic maintenance should be an integral part of project components,
including physical definitions, cost, financing plan, procurement, and disbursement, and that
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting procedures should be upgraded.
1.9   Two other agriculture sector credits were approved in 1994-95, the Agriculture
Development Project (Cr. 2561-VN) and the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2711-
VN). These two projects are in the early stages of implementation. Early lessons from these
projects indicate a problem in the flow of funds among the different government agencies,
and between the provincial and central governments.
1.10  The first IDA-financed road project in Vietnam, the Highway Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2549-VN) became effective in June 1994, and experienced initial problems in
implementation of the agreed Resettlement Action Plan. These problems can be attributed
to the lack of experience in dealing with IDA and to the difficulty in applying a new
standard of compensation for resettlement. There were also budgetary concerns about the
cost of resettlement. However, the establishment of a Project Management Unit and the
appointment of international consultants to help train staff and provide technical advice
through the initial phase have been helpful.
1.11  The proposed project would be the first IDA operation to support rural
infrastructure in Vietnam. Therefore, the above lessons were incorporated in the project
design by:
(a)    developing technical design as well as procurement procedures and tender
documentation ahead of project approval;
(b)    providing for adequate technical assistance to support project
implementation;



- 4 -
(c)    setting up a framework to develop an effective maintenance system under
the project to ensure that the investment under the project is properly and
sustainably maintained after the project is completed;
(d)    discussing with the Government early on the policy framework for
compensation to be applied to any resettlement and land acquisition under
the project, and obtaining Government approval before the project
becomes effective; and
(e)    ensuring that a computerized monitoring and evaluation system will be
developed at an early stage of project implementation and that models of
reports are included in the Operational Manual.



- 5 -
2. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RURAL TRANSPORT
SECTOR IN VIETNAM
2.1   Inadequate economic infrastructure has been identified as one of the main elements
in the persistence of rural poverty because it hinders opportunities to seek additional off-
farm income and greater participation in the market economy. Rural Vietnamese have less
access to infrastructure than the rural inhabitants of neighboring countries, and fewer than
one-third of Vietnam's rural population has access to all three key types of facilities:
passable roads, public transport, and permanent markets.
2.2   In the past, central government budgets for transport covered only national and
provincial transport networks, with an insignificant amount allocated to district and
communal networks. Because of the limited budgets of most local governments, their self-
help efforts to rehabilitate their local infrastructure are done on a piecemeal basis. The
results are often of low quality and therefore short-lived. However, with the Government's
recent focus on rural development, it has set an ambitious target to connect six isolated
districts and at least 400 isolated communes by 2000. The Government also plans a large-
scale rehabilitation program to upgrade the existing rural networks to nearly all-weather
roads. The plan calls for substantial allocations from the central budget, or about US$60
million a year, earmarked for rural transport development. This amount is still relatively
small compared with the actual needs for rehabilitation and extension of the rural transport
network. The resources from IDA through the proposed project will provide timely
assistance to the Government in its endeavor.
A. THE ROAD NETWORK
2.3   Vietnam's more than 105,000 kilometers of classified roads are defined as national,
provincial, district, or communal roads. This network compares favorably with neighboring
countries, although its condition is poorer with respect to surface condition, width, water
crossing structures, and drainage system. Of the 105,000 kilometers, only 11,350 (11
percent) are national roads. Of the remainder, 14,000 kilometers (13 percent) are provincial
roads and the rest (76 percent) are rural roads (district and communal roads). Most rural
roads are in poor condition: drainage is inadequate, bridges are missing or in poor
condition, and shoulders are not stable. This is confirmed by the fact that about 30 percent
of the country's 25,000 kilometers of district roads and more than 50 percent of its 46,000
kilometers of communal roads are inaccessible during the wet season.
2.4   Road networks classified by jurisdiction and pavement type are shown in Table 2.1.
Only 60 percent of national roads and 18 percent of provincial roads are paved; most
district roads have earth or natural gravel surfaces. District roads, as defined by the
Ministry of Transport (MOT), link district towns to provincial centers; the majority are in
poor condition and most are inaccessible in the rainy season. Communal roads are classified
as intercommunal roads, linking communal centers to district roads or to other communes;
intervillage roads, linking villages within the same commune; and village roads, which are



- 6 -
located within village boundaries. These communal roads are for the most part built to low
or no technical standards.
Table 2.1. Road Network by Jurisdiction and Pavement Type, June 1992
(Kilometers)
Jurisdiction      Total length       Paved       Gravel or Earth
National                 11,353           7,274           4,079
Provincial               14,014           2,591          11,423
District                 25,004             596         24,408
Commune                  46,910               -         46,910
Urban                     2,825           2,474            351
Special Purpose           5,451  _               _
Total                   105,557          12,935         87,171
2.5   The Government has established general and detailed standards for the various
classes of roads. Standard specifications for district roads are 6 meters in width with a 3.5-
4.0 meter carriageway and, for communal roads, 4 to 5 meters in width with a 2.5-3.0 meter
carriageway. Other design standards relating to gradients, radius of curves, and other
features are in line with international practice and, therefore, major revisions to Vietnam's
road standards are not necessary.
2.6   However, the same cannot be said for structural standards and techniques. In the
north, road pavements consisting of a 30-50 centimeter depth of pitched large stones
topped with a 10-12 centimeter layer of penetration asphalt macadam are somewhat
overdesigned. In the south, pavements are more commonly built of natural and lathyritic
gravel. Based on international experience, many roads with light traffic in rural areas could
be more economically built with gravel pavements of 15-20 centimeter depths. The
introduction of modern knowledge and technologies in this area would be useful.
2.7   Current standards for bridges in rural areas also need review and revision. Existing
design standard for bridges are 6-ton axle loads for district roads and 2.5-ton axle loads for
commune roads. Such structures are not adequate for modern trucks designed to carry
loads of 8 tons per axle. Also, bridges built to existing light-load standards would not
support the loads imposed by compactors and other heavy road machinery. Therefore, the
axle load standards for bridges to be constructed under the project should be revised
upward.
2.8   There is no reliable road inventory of the district and communal road networks.
However, the detailed maps of the fifteen provinces selected, which were prepared by their
respective Provincial Departments of Transport (PDOT) during project preparation, show a
combined length of 33,100 kilometers of classified roads, of which 4,000 kilometers (12



- 7 -
percent) are part of the national network, 5,100 kilometers (15 percent) are provincial
roads, 11,000 kilometers (33 percent) are district feeder roads, and 13,000 kilometers (40
percent) are communal access roads passable by four-wheel drive vehicles and homemade
trucks. In addition, approximately 13,000 kilometers of tracks, trails, and paths serve
communal and village travel and transport needs. The district roads and communal roads in
the project area represent about 36 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of the country's
total networks in those respective categories.
B. RURAL TRAFFIC
2.9    Transport in rural areas includes land and water transport. Land transport services
use small to medium-sized trucks, cars, buses, bicycles, motorcycles, and animal-drawn
carts in addition to walking with small loads. Water transport services use mainly small
boats. Land and water transport complement each other very well and the interchange of
traffic between them would be greatly facilitated by the construction of small landing stages
or piers at strategic locations.
2.10  Bicycles are used to transport rice paddy along paths on the dikes between the fields
and then along the roads to villages or homes. Bicycles are modified for the purpose by
adding platforms on each side. Loads of 150 kilograms or more are common on these
bicycles. Pedestrian traffic also forms a significant part of traffic movement in rural areas;
pedestrians use shoulder poles with carriers or panniers on each end to transport a wide
variety of freight and food products. Animal-drawn carts are also common; many of them
use solid rubber tires or bandages that are damaging to road pavements. Motorcycle use is
growing rapidly to replace other smaller vehicles.
2.11   The country's motorized vehicle fleet of 180,000 units, mainly trucks and buses
(1992), is small but growing rapidly and is expected to increase sharply in the coming years.
There are no statistics about how much of this fleet uses rural roads but, based on field
observations, only a small portion of the motor vehicle fleet operates or provides services
on district or communal roads. The most common commercial freight transport is by
homemade trucks, Cong Nong, which are assembled in several provinces by small
enterprises. The engines are manufactured in government factories and other parts are
made locally. Truck capacity is about one ton, or up to one cubic meter of goods. Their
price, approximately US$1,300-1,500, is affordable to some rural inhabitants. Medium-
sized trucks are used mainly to transport freight between district and provincial capitals.
2.12  Traffic in rural areas, although not very high in volume, is chaotic because of the
lack of traffic discipline and the failure to observe road rules and courtesy. This problem is
compounded by nontraffic road uses. Roads, for example, can be the only relatively drained
and flat area available for drying crops or laundry, and they are used for temporary storage
of items awaiting pickup. Accordingly, improvements to road conditions and quality would
not necessarily translate into faster and less costly travel without improved traffic behavior
and universal observation of the rules of the road.



- 8 -
C. ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT AND ITS
RELATIONSHIP WITH CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
2.13  The 1992 Constitution of Vietnam provides for a unitary system of Government. At
the highest level is the National Assembly, which meets twice a year and has a Standing
Committee that acts on the Assembly's behalf in the interim period. The Assembly decides
major economic policies and approves the national plan and state budget as well as major
investment projects after they have been reviewed by the Office of Government. The
National Assembly elects the prime minister, who is also head of the Office of Government.
The Ministry of Planning and Investment prepares and submits to the Office of Government
for approval investment plans and large project proposals based on input from sector
ministries and the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
2.14  At the provincial level, provincial administration is subdivided into districts and
municipalities. The political entities are the People's Councils at the provincial, district, and
municipal (commune) levels. Each People's Council has a Standing People's Committee to
act on its behalf between meetings. The People's Council elects a chairman to be the head of
the People's Committee and forms the provincial government.
2.15  The administrative system is centralized. Provincial governments are considered
part of the central government and are fully committed to implementing any policy issued by
the central government. Financial allocation is also centralized. The People's Committee in
each province prepares a provincial budget and investment plan for its province and submits
them to the Government Office who will consolidate the state budget and obtain approval
from the National Assembly. The approved plan is passed on to the MOF for budget
allocation. Provincial expenditures are financed from two sources: internal revenue levies in
the province and MOF funds to cover any shortfall. Only a few provinces have surplus
revenue over expenditures. In such cases the surplus is remitted to the MOF for
reallocation.
2.16  For the transport sector, each province has a Provincial Department of Transport
(PDOT) that reports directly to the provincial government and acts as the administrative
arm of the provincial government for planning, budgeting, and financing of the transport
sector in the province. However, the PDOT also have to conform to the professional,
technical, and general transport policy guidance issued by the MOT.
2.17  The division of responsibilities between the MOT and the provincial departments is
clear. The ministry is responsible for all capital investment works on national roads system,
from construction and rehabilitation to operations. However, routine maintenance is done
by provincial departments for sections of national roads that fall in their provincial
boundaries. The ministry is responsible for developing technical standards, approving the
country's overall transport plans, and implementing them through state-owned enterprises
and private sector contractors. The ministry also has a small rural road unit responsible
mainly for distributing rural road development budgets to the provinces.



- 9 -
2.18  Division of responsibilities between provincial and district offices regarding
maintenance of roads is not clearly defined and varies from one province to another. In
most of the provinces, the PDOT are responsible for part of the national network, all of the
provincial network and some of the district roads in their jurisdictions. Most district roads
and all of the communal roads are the responsibility of district offices through their
transport divisions, usually consisting of one to three engineers and technicians.
D. RURAL ROAD MAINTENANCE
2.19  The funding available for road maintenance in rural areas is insufficient to meet
growing demand. The MOT allocated an equivalent of US$5 million in 1994 for rural roads
construction and maintenance. However, very little of this money went to maintenance;
almost all of it went to new road construction. Rehabilitation and routine maintenance of
big structures, such as bridges, are done by provincial departments, mostly through their
own enterprises. On the other hand, maintenance of small structures as well as surface
work on district roads is coordinated by district offices. Maintenance parties are organized
in teams (on an ad hoc basis) consisting of three to five people responsible for a road
segment, corresponding to about 1 kilometer per person. Because of funding shortages,
most maintenance work is focused on areas where local materials and unskilled labor are
easily available and ignores those works that require skilled labor and imported material.
This explains why resurfacing work is usually washed away because of the lack of drainage
system structures, and also explains why large numbers of bridges are missing.
2.20  There are no standards or specifications for periodic and routine maintenance of
rural roads. In addition, there is no annual plan for maintenance, nor does coordination
exist among the different government agencies to undertake the work. The lack of a rural
roads inventory indicates the scope of the problem, and adds to the problems of
maintenance management. The shortage of funds is aggravated by the lack of an effective
system for routine maintenance. As a result rural roads continue to be of low quality and
short-lived, and inaccessible during the rainy season because the excess rain washes away
the new earth layer. The project will provide assistance in strengthening the standard
practice of routine maintenance in the project provinces (paras. 3.16-3.17).
2.21  In Vietnam, men between 18 and 50 years of age and women between 18 and 45
are required to provide ten workdays per year of unpaid service to the Government. These
days are used most commonly to undertake new construction and routine maintenance of
public facilities, including roads. Because resurfacing work requires limited skills, the
government uses the ten days for new construction and maintenance of roads by providing
material and some technical assistance. If the work requires more than ten working days,
the government may keep the workers beyond this period and pay them an equivalent of 3.0
to 3.5 kilograms of rice for each extra day of work.






- 10-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND FORMULATION
3.1   Rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance needs were first identified during the
December 1994 programming mission held in Hanoi between IDA and the Govermment of
Vietnam. During the mission a first project to develop an effective rural transport network
in rural and less privileged areas was agreed upon. The Govemment has made the project a
priority because rural transport development was identified in a poverty assessment study as
a key element to speed up the poverty alleviation program in rural areas.
3.2   The MOT was assigned as the counterpart agency responsible for preparing the
project jointly with IDA. During the one-year period for project preparation, the ministry
assigned five full-time staff to set up a Project Preparation Team in its Project Management
Unit 18 to work with IDA and consultants hired under grant funding.
3.3   The Government also selected 15 provinces to benefit from the project. The
selection was based on poverty criteria developed with IDA. Three of the five provinces
selected in the northem upland, two of the three in north central, and two in the central
highland are among the poorest provinces in the country. Two of the four provinces in the
flood-prone area of the Mekong Delta and one coastal province are among the country's
very poor provinces. The provinces selected represent the country's three distinctive
terrains. Their combined population of 20 million people, 131,000 square kilometers of
land, and 37,000 kilometers of the rural transport network represent 27 percent of the
country's population, 39 percent of land area, and 30 percent of the rural road network.
3.4   Transfers from the central government have been essential to the economies of these
provinces. The proportion of the budget transfer to total revenue of the provinces varies
from 31 percent for Minh Hai, a moderately poor province, to more than 80 percent for Ha
Giang, one of the country's poorest provinces. However, the share of investment in
transport to total provincial expenditures has been minimal in the selected provinces-
between 2 and 5 percent. Most transport investment has gone for capital improvements
and maintenance of provincial roads. The maintenance budget is insignificant (less than 1
percent) in many cases (Annex 1). The proposed project will, for the first time, enable the
selected provinces to tackle their rural infrastructure needs in a more systematic manner.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives and Monitoring Indicators
3.5   Project Objectives. In line with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (paras. 1.5-
1.7) and the concern voiced by local governments during the joint Ministry of Planning and
Investment/UNDP/IDA poverty workshop in September 1995, the overall objectives of the
project are to:



- 11 -
(a)    improve and upgrade access to rural communities and link them to the
district and provincial road networks;
(b)    develop local capacity to improve the level of service of low-volume roads
and to maintain them on a sustainable basis; and
(c)    encourage the development of local contractors.
3.6   Key Monitoring Indicators. The project's achievement will be measured against
the following key indicators agreed to by the Government and IDA (see para. 4.14) and
summarized in Annex 2:
(a)    Input indicators, upon which project implementation progress will heavily
depend, include the recruitment of an international-level technical adviser;
the number of workshops and amount of training organized for the Project
Implementation Division (PID), Provincial Project Management Units
(PPMUs), and contractors; and the speed in procuring necessary
maintenance equipment for the project.
(b)    Output and outcome indicators, which are related to physical targets,
include the length of rehabilitated roads, the length of maintained roads,
and the improvement in road accessibility during the rainy season.
(c)    Development impact indicators, which indicate the social and development
benefit derived from road rehabilitation, include the increase in household
income from off-farm work, the increase in number of trips to economic
and social infrastructures, and the increase in the size of contracts
undertaken by small contractors.
Project Description
3.7   To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project will help finance the
following main components:
(a)    rural access road rehabilitation and maintenance using the spot
improvement technique;
(b)    institutional strengthening and training; and
(c)    the study of issues relating to rural transport development.
3.8   Rural Access Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance. The specific features
included in this component are:



- 12 -
(a)    rehabilitation and improvement of about 5, 000 kilometers of roads and
bridges in the 15 selected provinces, of which 3,500 kilometers (70
percent) will be district roads and 1,500 kilometers (30 percent) will be
communal roads;
(b)    development of an effective road maintenance procedure and practice by
assisting in setting up a maintenance management program; and
(c)    resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the project.
3.9   During project preparation the Project Preparation Team and PDOT, with assistance
from consultants, prepared the detailed rural core network maps, which demonstrates that,
on average, 40 percent of rural road networks transverse areas where average population
density per square kilometer is more than 300, and that about 70 percent of the population
in the road service area will benefit directly or indirectly from these roads. Although
improvement of all the core rural network identified on the map is well beyond the
resources available under the project, the maps provide a good basis for selection of roads
to be included in the first-year program. Preliminary road inventories and engineering of
1,200 kilometers of roads carried out during project preparation in four provinces indicate
that the per kilometer costs will vary between US$4,000 and US$20,000, with an average
of US$7,000 - US$10,000. This estimate includes the cost of preparing project engineering
designs through the application of simplified methods and procedures prepared for this
purpose and included in the Technical Guidelines annexed to the Operational Manual. The
engineering work will be contracted to local survey and design companies at the provincial
level, with price limits of US$100 per kilometer of road, including field and office works.
3.10 Level of Service Aims Under the Project. The level and type of improved access
will be tailored to the specific needs of people in different areas. Two levels of access are
aimed for under the project: (a) reliable access, which provides relatively consistent and
safe access with some short-term closures permissible; and (b) minimum access, which
provides basic and essential access to local populations although with some difficulty and
sometimes with longer closures than with reliable access. The technical standards and
design features will be kept simple and low cost, although they will be completely adequate
for the required performance from an engineering perspective.
3.11   Communal roads will be improved to a stage where they can provide minimum
access (para. 3.10). For these roads, which serve the immediate day-to-day travel and
transport needs of villages and communes, the approach to be adopted will be a
participatory one, starting from the initial planning and decisions on the selection of roads to
be improved, the type of improvements to be carried out and their simple engineering
features, and the methods and resources to be used for the work. These approaches will be
worked out during the first year of the project on a pilot basis, and will be implemented in
future years. The continued participation of beneficiary communities in future maintenance
of these roads will be addressed during the first-year program (see para. 4.9).



- 13 -
3.12  Spot Improvement Method. Based on the levels of access aimed for under the
project, such access can be economically achieved using a spot improvement method to
bring the roads to a maintainable condition and to maintain them routinely. Spot
improvements will be carried out without any significant changes to vertical and horizontal
alignment. Spot improvement includes reshaping of running surfaces to improve surface
drainage and traffic running conditions; drainage works such as lateral, cross, and
longitudinal drains; erosion control and elimination of landslides; and limited graveling,
mostly with natural gravel or some macadam and irregular stone paving on steep grades.
Although the works will be limited to improvements at critical spots, they will be of good
quality, appropriate for present and short-term projected traffic, and consistent with current
Vietnamese standards (TCN 4054-85 for district roads and 22-TCN-210-92 for commune
roads Class A and B). The current geometric standards are in line with international
standards. However, structural design and techniques are usually overdesigned considering
the existing light traffic volume on rural roads (see paras. 2.5-2.6).
3.13  The Government, with assistance from IDA and consultants, has prepared an
Operational Manual (OM) to be used under the project. The manual includes selection
criteria for roads and bridges to be included under the project, a sample bid document, an
illustrative flow of funds, and technical guidelines. Prior to negotiations, the draft OM was
reviewed and found satisfactory to IDA. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
MOT will adopt and implement the OM, that the OM will be reviewed in light of
implementation experience, and that any revision of the OM will be furnished to IDA for
approval (see also para. 4.6)
3.14  The Selection Criteria. The roads and bridges to be included in the project will be
selected based on the following population, economic, and social criteria:
(a)    Population Criteria. The selection of roads for rehabilitation aims to
maximize the number of beneficiaries while maintaining network continuity
and consistency as well as paying attention to logistical constraints and
pragmatic work scheduling. The selection criteria, therefore, include
screening of candidate road sections based on the number of people served.
The selection criteria will be fine-tuned in later years after gaining
experience in the first year. Also, in the later years, the selection criterion
based on population density will be made more stringent to ensure that the
maximum number of people is served for each kilometer of road improved.
At this stage the tentative criteria set is that each kilometer of road will
serve a minimum of 300 people. Roads in provincial capitals and towns will
not be eligible for improvement under this project.
(b)    Economic Criteria. An economic analysis (Chapter 5) shows that with an
average yield per hectare of 3.5 tons for paddy, a majority of farm
production in Vietnam, at a price of VND 2,000 per kilogram, it will
generate sufficient value-added benefit to support a road improvement cost
of US$15,000 per kilometer. The economic criteria, therefore, include a
set of parameters in that: on the cost side the average investment cost



- 14 -
should not exceed US$15,000 per kilometer; on the benefit side, that at
least one-third of the road services area is productive land. However, if the
investment cost increases to US$20,000 per kilometer, the investment will
be justified only if the road services an area in which a higher-value crop is
produced on a commercial scale. Cost-benefit analysis will be required to
justify the investment in such cases (para. 5.6).
(c)    Social Criteria. Although poverty alleviation is one of the project's main
objectives, the above population and economic criteria may leave some of
the poorest segments of the rural society outside the project's reach. To
target less-privileged mountain and ethnic populations in areas where
population density is low and economic potential dim, 20 percent of the
road rehabilitation fund will be earmarked for rural access in those areas
not justified under the population and economic criteria. The social
criterion to be used in these areas is that more than 30 percent of the road-
influenced area is populated by an ethnic minority.
3.15  Selection of Bridges. The bridges to be rehabilitated under the project will be
selected based on the priority assigned to roads, and on the condition of existing bridges.
Bridges would be built to accommodate current and future international loading standards
for the existing category roads (see para. 2.7). In the flood-prone areas of the Mekong
Delta, the project will emphasize the construction and rehabilitation of bridges and the
protection of waterway embankments when they coincide with road embankments or when
water erosion may endanger the structure of road embankments. When connections exist
between roads and waterways, making the two transport modes complementary, the project
will include the provision or improvement of simple low-cost landings and piers for the
interchange of traffic. An estimated cost for bridge engineering is about 2 percent of the
estimated value of its civil works. The project will finance bridges with a maximum
construction cost of US$50,000 for each bridge.
3.16 Maintenance. A critical aspect of the road improvement component will be to
support the development of a maintenance management program and to introduce effective
routine road maintenance. Two important factors that lead to insufficient routine
maintenance on rural roads were identified as weak organization and lack of funds. The
project will assist the PPMUs in setting up routine maintenance, emphasizing prompt
maintenance on critical sections. The system of lengthman and an organized maintenance
team to be in charge of certain sections of the road will be emphasized where appropriate.
A standard routine maintenance practice will be developed with the 15 provinces under the
project. The credit will provide maintenance funds for one year after the rehabilitation work
is completed on each road link under the project. During the one-year period the PPMUs,
district engineer offices, and local communities will be provided-with maintenance tools and
appropriate training to undertake the maintenance work on a more regular basis. After a
one-year training period and with the appropriate tools, district engineer offices should be
able to plan, organize, and manage routine maintenance more effectively. Further incentives
for promoting effective routine maintenance will be developed during the first year of the
project.



- 15 -
3.17 Maintenance will be done by low-cost and simplified techniques using labor-based
approaches supplemented with small-scale equipment such as tractors, tractor-drawn
graders, trailers, and compactors. Annual maintenance and repair of critical spots could be
contracted out to private contractors for district roads and to communes for communal and
intercommunal roads. Community participation approaches will be encouraged for
maintenance of communal roads, to be worked out as mentioned in paragraphs 3.11 and
4.9. Routine maintenance will be carried out following the procedure described in the OM.
3.18  Technical Advisory and Supervision. An international consultant and a group of
national consultants will be hired under the project to provide technical support to the PID
and PPMUs in the overall supervision of the project (para. 4.4).
3.19  Institutional Strengthening and Training. The project will provide support for
project management, implementation, and institutional strengthening of implementing
agencies at the central and provincial levels, including accounting and auditing of project
account. The component will also support the development of local contractors.
(a)    At the central level, the project will assist in strengthening the capacity in
the MOT to provide support and guidance to the PDOT during project
implementation and to monitor and evaluate their work afterward; in
developing a computerized rural roads information system that can aid in
road maintenance planning and programming procedures, and in reporting,
monitoring, and evaluation; and in developing technical performance
criteria and standards for lower category roads.
(b)    At the provincial level, the component aims to assist local authorities with
simple revenue and expenditure review to ensure that proper planning,
budgeting, and management funding is provided for needed rural
infrastructure; to implement the OM developed during project preparation;
and to conduct on-the-job training in planning and programming and
construction supervision, and to organize training for contractors and local
government officials.
(c)    In keeping with the national policy, which is to fund the rural road
construction and maintenance effort from the national budget and execute
the effort with local capability, project roads will be built by local
contractors who will receive training under the project. The project would
provide funds for classroom and on-the-job training to prospective
contractors in bid preparation, cost accounting, and contract management,
using standard procurement procedures to introduce them to the concept
of operating and managing small contract works in a competitive bidding
environment. The contractors can then use this knowledge when
competing for works under the project.
3.20  Contractor training services will be provided by a consultant to be engaged under
the project. The training program for the first year will include contractors from the first



- 16 -
four provinces, and expand to cover the rest of the project provinces in the following two
years. Upon completing their training, the contractors will be provisionally registered by
the PDOT as eligible to be awarded contracts. This will distribute the work to many
contractors, and encourage competition and labor-based and light equipment approaches.
A limited amount of contractor training will be provided prior to project effectiveness under
existing grant funding.
3.21  As part of the training exercise on modem bidding standards for registered
contractors, a bracketing system will be allowed for the first five NCB contracts in each of
the 15 provinces. Therefore, bidding documents will include schedules of quantities and
standard unit prices from engineer's estimates. The trained and registered contractors will
be required to submit quotations of their own unit rates or, altematively, to quote a unit
price as a percentage of the given prices. Brackets of 25 percent discount or premium on
individual items and within a 10 percent of the total contract will be allowed. Starting from
the sixth contract in each province, bidding documents wili not include cost, and bracketing
will be eliminated.
3.22 A Rural Road Information System based on a Geographic Information System -
Transportation will be established in the PID to enhance data collection, manipulation, and
analysis of the rural road network system. This will be a simplified version of a similar
system currently being developed by the MOT for the national network. The system will
aid in road maintenance planning and programming procedures, and in the long term will
support other road administration functions such as reporting, monitoring, and evaluation.
Funds from the project will be used to purchase hardware and software, as well as database
design, training, and data conversion. The PID will initiate the process to set up the
proposed system in the second year of the project. At negotiations agreement was reached
that a service contract to implement the system be finalized by June 30, 1999. Draft Terms
of Reference for the task are shown in Annex 3.
3.23  Long-term training as well as short courses, study tours, and workshops will be
supported under the project. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
Govermment will submit to IDA for approval by March 31 of each year, beginning in 1997,
a proposed training program for the central Govermment and provincial staff involved in the
project, and that the Govermnent will implement the approved program.
3.24  Study. A Rural Transport Investment Strategy Study will be included in the project
to identify issues related to demand and investment in the rural transport sector and to
establish guidelines for future investment. The study will assess the existing practice of
rural transport infrastructure investment decisions, rationalize rural infrastructure
investment expenditures, address the main constraints to resource mobilization, and
estimate the resources necessary to effectively improve the core rural network. Draft
Terms of Reference for the task are shown in Annex 4.



- 17 -
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
3.25 Estimates of project costs are VND 816.5 billion, or US$60.89 million equivalent,
including physical and price contingencies (US$9.4 million). The foreign exchange
component is estimated to be US$15.13 million, or 25 percent of the total project cost. A
summary of costs by project component is given in Table 3.1, and further details are in
Annex 5.
Table 3.1. Project Cost Summary
Dong                            US$
(billions)                     (millions)
Component                   Local    Foreign       Total     Local      Foreign   Total
Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                  420.30    129.40       549.70    38.21      11.76    49.971
Institutional strengthening   3.80      7.40        11.20      0.34      0.68     1.02
Study                          1.40     4.10         5.50      0.13      0.37     0.50
Total Base Cost               425.50    140.90       566.40    38.68      12.81    51.49
Physical contingencies       42.55     14.09        56.64      3.87      1.28     5.15
Price contingencies          145.80    47.70       193.50      3.21      1.04     4.25
Total Project Cost            613.85    202.69       816.54    45.76      15.13    60.89
3.26  The cost of civil works and construction material is based on recent tender prices,
experience with other IDA projects, and estimates by consulting engineers. Costs for
vehicles and equipment are based on recent procurement during the project preparation
period. All-inclusive costs per staff-month for foreign specialist services are estimated based
on regional and international consultants rates. Costs for local specialist services are
estimated based on local experience. A total of 210 staff-months of local specialists and 70
staff-months of foreign specialists will be required.
3.27  All base costs are estimated in January 1996 prices. Physical contingencies of 10
percent of the base cost estimate have been applied to all components. Price contingencies
have been calculated for foreign and local costs. When expressed in US dollars, the
escalation for foreign and local costs is based on expected international annual price
increases of 2.0 percent in 1996, 1.62 percent from 1997 to 1999, and 2.23 percent after
2000. When expressed in Vietnamese Dong, the increase is based on expected domestic



- 18 -
price increases of 10 percent in 1996, 6 percent between 1997 and 1999, and 5 percent after
2000.
Project Financing
3.28  IDA will finance 91 percent of road rehabilitation and maintenance and 100 percent
of institutional strengthening components, or 90.3 percent of total project cost. The
Government will finance 9 percent of roads works and 100 percent of the study, or 9.7
percent of total project cost.
Table 3.2. Project Financing by Components
(millions of US dollars)
US$ million
GOV            IDA             Total
Roads rehabilitation and maintenance    5.4            53.8            59.2
(9)           (91)
Institutional strengthening              0              1.2             1.2
(0)           (100)
Study                                   0.5             0              0.5
(100)           (0)
Total Project Cost                      5.9            55.0            60.9
(9.7)         (90.3)          (100.0)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are percentages.






- 19-
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.1   The project will be implemented by the MOT and fifteen selected PDOT. At the
central level, a Project Implementation Division (PID) will be set up under the ministry's
Project Management Unit 18 (PMU18) and headed by a full-time division manager. The
Director General ofPMU18 will also serve as Project Director of this project. The PID will
be responsible for monitoring and guiding project implementation. The unit's role will be
limited to coordination and support functions and implementation of subcomponents procured
under international competitive bidding (ICB). Project implementation will be decentralized
to each project province. A PPMU will be established in each PDOT. Each provincial unit
will prepare annual workplans, procure engineering and civil works, evaluate bids, and submit
evaluation reports to the selection committee that awards contracts. In addition, the
provincial units will coordinate contract maintenance activities for lengthman and small-scale
contractors as well as community labor organized through district offices. A detailed
description of the functions of the PID and PPMUs, as well as other units involved in project
implementation, is included in the OM. During negotiations an agreement was reached that as
a condition of effectiveness, PID and PPMUs of the first four provinces be established and
heads of the five units appointed. Documentation of the organizational arrangements and the
staffing plan was presented to IDA for review and comments prior to negotiations.
4.2   Briefly, the PID will be responsible for monitoring and guiding such activities as
annual budget allocation, physical targets and training plans, review and approval of eligibility
criteria, and financial and physical commitments. The unit will also supervise and manage
ICB-procured components such as technical assistance, studies, training and any bulk
purchase of goods; prepare an aggregate disbursement plan, statement of expenditures, and
data sheets to be sent to IDA; provide technical guidance and training to PPMUs' staff, and
organize and develop interprovincial technical exchanges among unit managers.
4.3   The PPMU will undertake the day-to-day implementation activities and be responsible
for: (i) preparing annual workplans including civil works, maintenance activities, and training
needs; (ii) organizing and managing financial, accounting, and payment activities for road
works and maintenance; (iii) arranging for bidding, bid evaluation, recommendations for
contract awards, contracting, and supervision of engineering design and construction; (iv)
organizing community-based labor through district offices; (v) preparing annual disbursement
plans; (vi) preparing appropriate documentation to support statement of expenditures; (vii)
collecting data on physical, financial, and other progress indicators that support project
monitoring and evaluation; and (viii) analyzing data and recommending improvement of
policies, guidelines, and procedures.



- 20 -
4.4   The national staff of the PID will be complemented by an international expert whose
draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 6. These experts will provide technical expertise and
training to the national staff and serve as resource persons to address project-related policy
and technical issues. Technical assistance to the PPMUs will be provided mainly by the
trained staff of the national support unit, supported by international experts.
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.5   Because much of the responsibility for implementation will be given to local
authorities, who have diverse capabilities, implementation methods need to be flexible,
realistic, and practical. Implementation arrangements should fit well with the project design
and be open to such diverse implementation methods as community-organized labor, direct
contracting, and national competitive bidding.
4.6   Project implementation procedures and guidelines for technical and administrative
matters will follow the Operational Manual. A draft version of this manual was prepared and
submitted to IDA for review and comments prior to negotiations. During negotiations, the
draft OM was further discussed and finalized. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that the adoption of OM satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.7   Selection of Roads to be Financed under the Project. Roads will be selected
according to a set of eligibility conditions as defined in the Operational Manual and
summarized in paragraphs 3.14 - 3.15. Annual work programs for other components such as
rural road maintenance, assistance to small-scale contractors, and other institutional
strengthening will be reviewed annually. During negotiations agreement was reached that
MOT will prepare and submit to IDA for approval on August 31 of each year, beginning in
1997, a proposed annual work program and budget for project activities in the following
calendar year, including a list of road links to be improved, and thereafter implement the
annual work program as approved by IDA. The first-year program was discussed and agreed
to at negotiations. However, action plans will be prepared separately in certain cases. An
ethnic minorities development plan (para. 5.14) will be prepared for road links in areas
inhabited by ethnic minorities. Environmental Impact Assessments (para. 5.11) will be
prepared for roads in environmentally sensitive areas. Similarly, Resettlement Action Plans or
inventories (para. 5.13) will be prepared for road links that involve resettlement.
4.8   A set of social criteria stipulated in the OM will be used to target roads that serve
areas inhabited by the very poor and minorities, which do not usually meet the general
population and economic criteria. The OM would provide that no more than 20 percent of
project funds can be allocated for road works based on social criteria alone.



- 21 -
4.9    Community Participation. When communes are the direct beneficiaries of the road
segment and the work does not require substantial construction skills, the commune or
communities within the commune will be contracted to undertake the work using the
Government price list to determine the contract value. A typical bill of quantities for spot
improvement works is shown in Annex 7. Supervision of work will be done by the district
offices. As indicated in paragraph 3.11, a pilot scheme will be implemented during the first
year. PID, PPMUs, and external technical experts will help make necessary adjustments to
incorporate lessons gained from the first-year operation.
4.10  Implementation Schedule. Because of the large number of provinces covered under
the project and the need to test the procedures developed during the preparation stage, a
sequential approach will be adopted for project implementation. The first-year program will
serve as a pilot and demonstration project to test and modify, as warranted, all technical and
administrative guidelines stipulated in the OM. Government staff and contractors will also be
trained. Therefore the first-year program will include a representative sample of road works,
including surfacing, bridges, and drainage structure improvement or rehabilitation. Thus a
variety of technical problems and solutions, administrative procedures, and contracting,
training, and institutional development needs will be addressed. The first-year program will
ensure that demonstration sites are easily accessible.
4.11   Project implementation activities will start in four of the fifteen provinces covered
under the project once the credit is effective; the remaining eleven provinces will enter the
program after the first project year. The order and timing of provincial entry will depend on
how well prepared the province is and on the ability of the management units in each province.
The Government has expressed its intention to start the second group within six months of the
start-up of the first group. To ensure smooth start-up, the eleven remaining provinces will
begin their pre-implementation activities about six months prior to the actual start of
implementation. Pre-implementation activities include briefing and training for administrative,
technical, and financial management staff of the project in each province. The Government's
goal is to implement the rehabilitation work in all fifteen provinces in three years. The first-
year review will examine the feasibility of this goal and modify it, if necessary, taking into
consideration the achievements of the first-year program.
4.12 Agreement was reached that MOT will prepare and furnish to IDA a first-year project
review report no later than January 31, 1998, and a joint MOT/IDA review mission will be
carried out by March 31, 1998 (para. 4.32). The first-year review will include:
(a)   the need for revising the Operational Manual (para. 4. 6);
(b)   procurement and other issues relating to community-organized civil works
(paras. 3.11 and 4.9); and
(c)   implementation timetable (para. 4.11).



- 22 -
C. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS
4.13  The PID will monitor, evaluate, and report on the project's activities and expenditures,
based on information provided by the provincial offices. Progress wili be measured against
the key indicators agreed on by the Government and IDA (Annex 2).
4.14 On the basis of these key indicators, the MOT will develop and implement a
computerized monitoring, evaluation, and reporting system. Data will be collected at the
provincial level and processed by the PMU 18. A short-term specialist with experience in
computerized project management will assist in the establishment of the project monitoring
and evaluation system, train staff and periodically follow up on system implementation.
During negotiations agreement was reached that MOT will, by December 31, 1997, establish
and maintain operational procedure satisfactory to IDA for project monitoring and evaluation
based on performance indicators satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.6).
4.15  The PID will be responsible for preparing semi-annual reports using the key
performance indicators as the basis for assessing implementation progress. The report will
also identify possible problems or impediments and make specific recommendations for
remedial action. During negotiations assurance was sought that the PID will prepare and
submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports by March 31 and September 30 of each year
commencing September 30, 1997.
D. PROCUREMENT
4.16 Procurement under the project will be in line with IDA procurement guidelines and
procedures (Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995
and revised in 1996, and Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency of August 1981). A summary of procurement
arrangements is shown in Table 4 .1.



- 23 -
Table 4.1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(millions of US dollars)
Components                               ICB        NCB        Otherl/      Total
1. Civil works for Road rehabilitation and          34.5         19.3        53.8
maintenance                                     (31.4)       (18.0)     (49.4)
2. Goods -
- Equipment                           0.6                     0.4         1.0
(0.6)                  (0.4)       (1.0)
- Vehicles and motorbikes                                     0.9        0.9
(0.9)      (0.9)
- Furniture                                                   0.3        0.3
( -)       ( -)
- Office supplies                      -          -           0.3        0.3
(-)        (-)
3. Services contracts
- Rural roads information systems      -          -           0.3        0.3
(0.3)      (0.3)
4. Consultant services
- TA & overseas training               -          -           1.6         1.6
(1.6)      (1.6)
- Technical advisory and supervision                          1.8         1.8
(1.8)      (1.8)
- Studies                                          -          0.5         0.5
(-)        (.-)
5. Miscellaneous
- Local training                       -           -          0.4         0.4
(-)        (-)
Total                                     0.6       34.5         25.8        60.9
(0.6)     (31.4)       (23.0)      (55.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
1/   Includes shopping, direct contracting, community-organized labor, and consultant services.
4.17   As discussed in paragraph 4.2, the PID will be responsible for procurement of such
items as technical assistance, studies, rural roads information system, and purchase of office
equipment and furniture to be used at headquarters and in the provinces. The PPMUs will be
responsible for procuring all road works executed under the project in their provinces, as well
as some equipment, supplies, and furniture to be purchased locally. Because the operational
capacity of PID and PPMUs are currently weak, support to strengthen their institutional
capacity has been included in the project (paras. 3.19-3.23).
4.18 Civil Works. Civil works (US$53.8 million) will mainly include upgrading the level
of service of selected district feeder roads and commune access roads by constructing missing
bridges, improving road drainage systems, and providing regraveling. Works will also include
the protection of waterway banks when these coincide with road embankments or when they



- 24 -
endanger the safety of the road. Some direct contracting will be used for packages of up to
US$10,000 for small-scale labor-based contractors and community-organized labor. The total
value of procurement under direct contracting will not exceed US$8 million. Contracts up to
US$50,000 (total about US$10 million) may be procured, using lump-sum fixed price or unit
price contracts, according to simplified procurement procedures for works, similar to
shopping among trained, qualified and registered domestic contractors in the appropriate
category by soliciting quotations from at least three of them. Contracts above US$50,000
equivalent (about US$30 million) will be procured according to national competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA. There will be no ICB for civil works since works under the
project are small, scattered across fifteen provinces, and not technically complex, and thus are
unlikely to attract foreign competition. A summary of the typical bill of quantities for works
under the first-year program to be financed under the project is shown in Annex 7. The
project's OM includes some sample bidding documents developed in compliance with IDA's
procedures on standard bidding documents for small works (paras. 3.13 and 4.6).
4.19  Goods. Goods to be procured under the project (US$2.5 million) will be suitably
packaged and procured by the PID and PPMUs as appropriate. Because of the small-scale
requirements, vehicles, motorbikes and laboratory equipment will be packaged into lots of less
than US$150,000 and procured by international shopping with at least three price quotations
from at least two countries in accordance with IDA guidelines, and with an aggregate value
not exceeding US$1.5 million. The rest will be procured through ICB. All furniture required
for the project, totaling about US$0.3 million, will be financed fully by the Government and
procured according to Government guidelines. Domestic preferences of 15 percent of the CIF
price or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower will apply to domestically manufactured
goods under ICB procurement and the Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for
ICB procurement.
4.20  Consulting and Training. Consulting services totaling 70 staff-months of
international and 210 staff-months of national expertise, and foreign and local seminars and
training and road information system (estimated to cost US$3.7 million), engineering contract
(costing about US$0.52 million) and studies (costing US$0.5 million) will be procured on the
basis of the Government's guidelines for the use of consultants and will use the Bank's
Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services.
4.21  Review of Procurement. IDA will conduct a prior review of all documents
concerning the tendering and award of: (i) all goods; (ii) all consultancy contracts financed by
IDA that exceed US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals; (iii) roads in forest
buffer zones; (iv) all road works involving resettlement; (v) roads in ethnic minorities areas;
and (vi) the first three civil works contracts of each PPMU and all contracts estimated to cost
more than US$150,000 equivalent per contract. Contracts not covered under the categories
mentioned above will be retained by the PID and PPMUs and reviewed by IDA on a random
basis. For consultant services to be financed by IDA, the prior review will include terms of
reference, short lists, letters of invitation, recommendations for award, and the final contract.
In addition, all terms of reference, single source selection of consulting firms, regardless of the
contract value, are also subject to prior Bank review. Even though normally about 80 percent



- 25 -
of the value of IDA-financed procurement would be subjected to prior review, the project
justified a lower coverage since there is a large number of similar or repetitive contracts.
E. DISBURSEMENT
4.22  The project will be completed by June 30, 2001, five years after credit effectiveness.
The credit closing date will be December 31, 2001, six months after the expected completion.
The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 8.
4.23  The proposed allocation of the credit and percentage of expenditure to be financed by
IDA will be as follows:
(a)   95 percent of total cost of civil works;
(b)   100 percent of total expenditure on technical assistance, workshops, and
training; and
(c)   100 percent of foreign expenditures (CIF) for directly imported equipment;
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 65 percent of total expenditures for other locally procured
items.
4.24  To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be opened with an authorized
allocation of US$5.0 million representing the estimated average expenditures for a four-month
period. However, an initial deposit to the Special Account shall be limited to US$3.5 million
until disbursements and outstanding commitments against the credit shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of SDR 10 million. The account will be opened in U.S. dollars in a
bank acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will cover IDA's share of eligible expenses in
both local and foreign currencies. Applications for replenishment of the special account,
supported by appropriate documentation would be submitted regularly -preferably monthly,
but not less than quarterly- or when the amounts withdrawn equal 20 percent of the initial
deposit.
4.25  Under a centralized fiscal system but with decentralized physical execution, it is
important to design a report flow and funds flow mechanism that can efficiently and speedily
channel funds to subprojects without sacrificing centralized quality control. Based on budget
approval of expenditure under the project (yearly or quarterly) and invoices certified by
PPMUs and PID, the General Department for Development Investment (GDDI) will pay
IDA's share out of the Special Account. The withdrawals from the Special Account will be
made under the joint signature of the Project Director and the GDDI director; the counterpart
fund will be paid by the GDDI through its provincial offices. The report flow and fund flow
mechanism is shown in Annex 9.



- 26 -
4.26  For reasons of efficiency, the project will pay for output (itemized works) against
measured progress and prorated lump-sum or unit price contracts. After the contractors have
finished part of the work, the district engineer will check and certify that the work has been
done according to the contract. A copy of the contracts and certified bills will be sent to the
PPMU, which will approve and pass it on to the PID. After approving the certified bills, the
PID will pass the bills on to GDDI for further review. After being satisfied with its review,
GDDI will pay the counterpart funding portion to the contractors and authorize the Special
Account service bank to pay IDA share directly to the contractor. The PID will prepare a
replenishment application on a monthly basis and send it to the External Finance Department
(EFD) under MOF to review the expenditures and prepare the withdrawal application. EFD
will then have the application signed by State Bank of Vietnam and send it to IDA for Special
Account replenishment. Any inconsistencies will be corrected by the EFD at this stage.
During negotiations the funds flow mechanism (Annex 9) was discussed and confirmed. The
project will also support an establishment of an accounting system in PID capable of
monitoring the funds flow mechanism and recording all transactions under the project, in
particular the SOE records.
4.27  Full documentation will be required for services obtained from consulting firms under
contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 and, in the case of individual consultants, for contracts
exceeding US$50,000, all goods, and for works procured under contracts exceeding
US$150,000. All other disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOE)
prepared by the PID. Supporting documents will be made available to IDA's supervision
missions and to the auditor.
4.28   Conditions for disbursement include:
(a)   on resettlement issue: specific RAPs will be required if 150 or more people are
affected in a road link. If fewer than 150 people are affected, a time-bound
action plan for compensation and resettlement will be prepared in accordance
with the agreed Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Compensation, and
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (para. 5.12). The submission to and
approval of a specific RAP or action plan by IDA and completion of
resettlement activities will be a condition of disbursement for road links (para.
5.13);
(b)   on environmental issue: the Government will prepare and submit to IDA an
Environmental Impact Assessment for roads located within forest buffer zones
including a time-bound action plan for undertaking the environmental
mitigating measures before disbursement is made against civil works and goods
for such roads (para. 5.11); and
(c)   on ethnic minorities issue: for road links to be built in ethnic minorities areas,
an ethnic minorities development plan will be prepared and submitted to IDA
for approval prior to disbursements for works on such roads (para. 5.14).



- 27 -
F. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
4.29  During negotiations assurance was obtained from the Government that: (i) separate
project accounts will be established for their respective components at the MOT and PDOT;
(ii) provincial offices will be responsible for filing a monthly report on the project's account to
the PID; (iii) Special Account and project accounts, including documentation for SOEs, will
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with the audit including a
separate opinion on the use of the SOEs and the status of audit compliance; (iv) IDA funds
can be used to finance expenditures incurred in arranging for the project annual audit report;
and (v) the detailed audit report will be submitted to IDA within nine months of the closing of
the government's fiscal year. The first-year audit report will cover the period from January to
December 1997.
G. PROJECT MONITORING AND IDA SUPERVISION
4.30  Physical progress as well as other aspects of the project will be monitored by MOT
following forms and indicators included in the OM and agreed to at negotiations. Any land
and compensation matters, environmental effects, or questions about the quality of selection
and implementation of works will be reviewed on a sampling basis by IDA.
4.31  IDA will conduct project supervision missions at six-month intervals during project
implementation, with first-year and midterm reviews to evaluate progress made and determine
necessary actions. The expected timing and expertise requirements for these missions are
included in Annex 10. In preparation for IDA missions, the PID will compile and submit
semiannual progress reports to IDA, including the key progress indicators from the previous
six-month period (paras. 3.6 and 4.14).
4.32  There will be a joint MOT/IDA first-year review of the project (para. 4.12) to assess
progress made during the pilot program and to modify the OM, if necessary. Prior to the
review mission, the Government will prepare and submit to IDA an assessment of progress
made in achieving project objectives, technical assistance performance, and the need to modify
the OM. The Government will also prepare a program of action to address any deficiencies in
project design or implementation identified in the assessment.
4.33  A midterm review will be done in the third year of the project. Project design,
implementation procedures, and project objectives will be reviewed. During negotiations
agreement was reached that the Government will prepare and submit the midterm review
report to IDA by December 31, 1998 for a joint review mission in March 31, 1999.



I



- 28 -
5. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS, AND RISKS
A. OVERVIEW
5.1   The proposed project has been assigned a high priority in the Government and IDA's
work program because it is a key element in tackling rural development and poverty
alleviation. By directing funds to improve selected infrastructure in local governments and
communities, the project will strengthen stakeholder ownership, which provides incentives for
the communities to help maintain the rehabilitated assets after the project is completed.
5.2   Vietnam's new economic policies, particularly the emphasis on light industry and the
economic responsibility system in agriculture, are creating a rapidly growing demand for
transport. In rural areas agricultural production and the increasing production of households
and rural enterprises must be transported, often rapidly, to nearby towns and neighboring
areas. Thus substantial improvement of the rural transport infrastructure is required. Rural
transport systems will create opportunities to exploit resources for which low-cost motorized
transport is required, and will accrue benefits to the residents of the areas served. The detailed
economic analysis for the project given below focuses on the rural road rehabilitation and
maintenance component, which accounts for about 80 percent of the project cost.
B. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.3   Road Influence Areas. The project covers fifteen poor provinces where per capita
GDP ranges from US$61 (32 percent of the country average) in Ha Giang to US$143 (74
percent of country average) in Minh Hai. The weighted average per capita GDP of the project
provinces is US$106, or about 56 percent of the country average (Annex 11). The population
of the fifteen project provinces totals about 20 million, with an area of about 40 percent of the
country but with 30 percent of the road network. The detailed road network map prepared
during project preparation shows that an average of 5 percent of the network in these
provinces is classified as national road, 7 percent is provincial road, 14 percent is district road,
and 74 percent is communal road. Assuming that 20 percent of the population in these
provinces are urban residents and that the rest are distributed evenly on provincial, district, and
communal roads with a normal distribution curve, one kilometer of district road has a direct
influence on about 2.27 square kilometers and about 300 people (Annex 11).
5.4   Project Benefits. The project assumes that about one-third of the direct benefit areas
are cultivable, and that the majority of the low-value crop in Vietnam is paddy. The national
average yield per hectare of paddy land is 3.5 tons, and that the domestic market price of
paddy is about US$0.2 per kilogram. Using a conservative approach, the project assumes that
the benefit of better roads and lower transport costs will contribute to a gradual increase in
commercialized paddy production of about 1 percent a year starting from the second year of
road rehabilitation to the sixth year, with farm productivity stabilizing afterwards. The value of
paddy production that is directly influenced by one kilometer of road is US$530 in the second
year and US$2,648 in the sixth year. The project also assumes a 2 percent reduction in losses



- 29 -
from the transport of agricultural products on poor condition roads relative to the "without
project scenario".
5.5   Project Costs. For the base case scenario, the cost of spot improvement on district
and communal roads is US$7,200 a kilometer, which is the average cost estimated during the
project preparation using simplified engineering methods (para. 3.9). Routine maintenance for
this type of road in Vietnam using lengthman and simple road maintenance tools cost about
US$137 a kilometer per year. Periodic maintenance will be required every ten years, so the
cost-benefit stream is only calculated for the first ten years after the project is initiated.
5.6   Economic Rates of Return. Starting from the second year, benefits are about 20
percent of the investment cost. As shown in Annex 12, the estimated Net Present Value
(NPV) at a 12 percent discount factor is US$7,791 per kilometer of rehabilitated roads and the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is 32.5 percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that even if
costs more than double, to US$15,000 a kilometer, the investment is still viable, with a NPV of
US$827 per kilometer and an ERR of 13.3 percent. However, if the investment cost increases
further to US$20,000 a kilometer or if it stays at US$15,000 a kilometer but benefits are
reduced by 25 percent, then NPVs will become negative and ERRs are reduced to about 7
percent (Annex 12). From this analysis it is concluded that investment costs over US$15,000 a
kilometer will be justified only if the investment is in areas where higher value crops are
produced on a commercial scale, and that economic analysis for such investment would be
required.
5.7   Nonquantifiable Benefits. Since labor costs account for more than 30 percent of the
total cost for road rehabilitation, the project is estimated to generate about US$14 million of
wage income to local labor. The employment and cash compensation of populations in poor
provinces is an important feature of the project. Many villagers in the selected provinces
maintain subsistence livelihoods, with minimum cash incomes. Therefore the cash income to
be eamed under the project will provide important additional resources to these
underprivileged villagers.
5.8   Labor-based methods can be successful and competitive with equipment-based
methods in countries, like Vietnam, where labor costs are very low. Where unskilled villagers
are willing to work for the equivalent of US$1 a day, capital-intensive methods are not
attractive. Further, since it is likely that local populations will be involved in maintaining road
assets once rehabilitation works are completed, using them for rehabilitation works under the
project will provide them with the on-the-job training and skills needed to perform proper
maintenance afterward. As a result maintenance will be more sustainable and of a higher
quality than in the past, when unskilled and unpaid labor were used for road maintenance.
5.9   Because institutional strengthening efforts are directed toward the provincial levels, it is
expected that by the end of the project all fifteen selected PDOTs will gain technical and
administrative knowledge that enables them to efficiently manage and maintain the rural road
networks in their provinces. In addition, once the small-scale contractors in the provinces have
gained project management and cost accounting experience, they will be able to compete in the



- 30 -
country's fast-growing competitive bidding environment. If this approach is successful it can
be disseminated to the country's 38 other provinces.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMACT
5.10  The project has been classified in environmental Category B. The scope of the project
works are limited to the rehabilitation and maintenance of selected district feeder roads and
communal access roads. These activities are not expected to compromise environmental
quality or destroy natural habitats. Road improvements will ensure proper drainage and
enhance soil stability, as well as provide greater vehicular and pedestrian safety through
improvements to road surfaces and embankments, and the construction of missing bridges.
Overall, the project's environmental impact is expected to be small and mostly positive. Given
the project's sequential approach and the small environmental impact expected, no
Environmental Impact Assessment will be prepared up front. Progress reports will indicate any
problems encountered and solutions adopted during implementation.
5.11  To ensure that contractors employ appropriate techniques to protect the environment
during construction, instructions, prototype designs, and guidelines have been prepared and
included in the OM. To protect forests and reserved land, road eligibility criteria will ensure
that the roads selected under the project are limited to those roads that link villages to market
centers, not to forest areas. During negotiations agreement was reached that no roads will be
financed in reserved areas. In the forest buffer zones, an Environmental Impact Assessment
will be prepared and submitted to IDA for approval prior to disbursement for any section of
road in the buffer zones.
C. LAND ACQUISITION AND INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT
5.12 Road rehabilitation using spot improvement methods normally does not require
widening roads or acquiring land. To the contrary, it often limits the spreading of roads onto
adjacent fields in several tracks. Therefore it is expected that most of the roads rehabilitated
under the project will occupy the same or even less land when improved. However, since only
the details of the first-year program have been planned which do not include works causing
land acquisition, the future need for minor additional strips of land cannot be ruled out. During
negotiations a Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Compensation, and Rehabilitation
satisfactory to IDA was agreed upon. This framework will contain the procedures to be
followed for rehabilitation of roads requiring additional land, including the principles for land
acquisition, resettlement, and rehabilitation; the institutional and legal framework, including
entitlement policies; implementation arrangements; rules for local participation in
implementation; grievance redressal mechanisms; and provisions for internal and external
monitoring, all of which are satisfactory to IDA.



- 31 -
5.13  During negotiations agreement was reached that when 150 or more people are affected
by a road link, specific Resettlement Action Plans will be required. These road-specific reports
will include results of socioeconomic surveys and censuses of all parties affected by the
project; detailed compensation and resettlement or rehabilitation plans for the various groups
affected by the project; a timetable for implementation; organizational responsibilities for
implementation; a detailed budget for funding the various compensation and rehabilitation
measures; and internal and external monitoring arrangements. If fewer than 150 people are
affected, a time-bound action plan for compensation and resettlement will be prepared in
accordance with the framework (see para. 5.12). The submission to and approval of a specific
RAP or action plan by IDA and completion of resettlement activities will be a condition of
disbursement for those road links. At negotiations agreement was reached that by March 31,
1997 PID will retain an independent agency or agencies with qualified and experienced staff
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA to periodically carry out external monitoring and
evaluation of the action plans, and to prepare an annual report to submit to PID and IDA by
August 31 of each year starting in 1997.
D. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES AND ETHNIC MINORITIES
5.14  Population density in the road service area is one of the main eligibility criteria for road
selection. While this approach spreads the benefits of the project to a large portion of the
population, it tends to exclude sparsely populated and mountainous areas, where most ethnic
minorities live. Even with the refined selection criteria of incorporating an accessibility rating
- which gives higher priority to roads that are not presently accessible - this approach still
favors the coastal plain and excludes most mountainous areas. These economic criteria may
result in some of the poorest segments of society being left outside the project's reach. In
order to target mountain and ethnic populations, an understanding was reached at negotiations
that up to 20 percent of credit earmarked for rural access road rehabilitation may be used in
those areas justified under the social criteria (para. 3.14(c)). To ensure that ethnic minorities
are consulted during the planning stage and that they benefit from the road construction,
guidelines for preparing a development plan for ethnic minorities will be included in the OM.
During negotiations agreement was reached that an ethnic minorities' development plan is
prepared and submitted to IDA for approval prior to disbursements for works on road links in
areas inhabited by ethnic minorities.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
5.15  Project sustainability will be enhanced by at least three actions. First, the project will
support the development of institutional and human resource capacity that will continue to
support road rehabilitation and maintenance once the project is completed. Second, the
project supports the rural roads information system and the setting up of an effective system
for rural maintenance management at the local level to ensure continued maintenance once the
project is complete. Furthermore, a Rural Infrastructure Investment Study will be conducted
to address the issues, problems, and needs relating to rural transport investment for Vietnam.
Third, project preparation has involved a series of participatory and interactive workshops



- 32 -
with national, provincial, and district stakeholders with a view to fostering local ownership of
the project.
5.16  Participation of beneficiaries during project preparation was achieved at two levels.
First, the staffs of the MOT and PDOT were actively involved in project preparation,
collecting data, consulting with other agencies, taking road inventories, mapping the entire
rural roads network and prioritizing roads for the first-year program, and developing and
refining various components of the project. Second, Government officials were provided with
training during project preparation. Two workshops were organized to discuss the project
concept and draft project design, drawing representatives of national and provincial agencies
involved in rural roads construction and maintenance. In addition, during project
implementation some works will be implemented by community-organized labor, which
requires the active involvement of beneficiaries at both the planning and implementation stages.
F. RIsKS
5.17 Because the project's design is somewhat innovative for the Government of Vietnam,
the project could be assumed to entail considerable risk. However, the risk of the "wrong"
project being chosen in each selected district and commune is small given the participatory
process involved (para. 5.16) and the immense interest of the central and local governments for
the project. Still, the main risks relating to implementation include: (i) Vietnam's lack of
experience with implementation of externally financed projects and competitive bidding, which
might delay contracting for and execution of project works; (ii) private contractors' lack of
experience with bidding procedures and works execution; (iii) failure to provide adequate
routine maintenance, partly because of the absence of good standard maintenance procedures
and mainly because of the lack of funds, which would result in early deterioration of the
rehabilitated roads; and (iv) the tight implementation schedule expected by the Government -
to complete the project in three years -  night not be fulfilled.
5.18  Consulting services provided during project preparation and technical assistance to be
provided during project implementation will minimize the technical risks. Training provided to
private contractors will minimize the risks in contracting works to the private sector. The
procedures for effective routine maintenance and management to be set up under the project
will minimize the risks relating to substandard maintenance. For the risk in extending the
implementation period, the project disbursement schedule assumes that roads will be
rehabilitated in five years instead of three. This schedule will not constrain the Government
from progressing more rapidly.



I



- 33 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. AGREEMENTS
6.1   The conditions of credit effectiveness and disbursement as well as agreements and
understandings reached during project negotiations are as follows:
During Negotiations the Government Submitted
(a)   A draft Operational Manual;
(b)   A plan of the first-year program;
(c)   A MOT approved Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy Framework; and
(d)   Draft arrangements for the flow of funds and related paper between the
central and provincial governments and methods of payments.
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
(a)   The Operational Manual will be adopted by MOT and applied to all
implementation aspects of the project, and revisions will require prior IDA
review (para. 4.6);
(b)   The Government will submit a proposed training program for the central and
provincial government staff and private contractors involved in the project to
IDA for approval by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997 (para.
3.23);
(c)   The Government will submit a proposed work program and budget for
project activities in the following calendar year to IDA for review and
comments by August 31 of each year (para. 4.7);
(d)   The Government will initiate the establishment and implementation of a
computerized monitoring and evaluation system using agreed monitoring
indicators, by December 31, 1997 (para. 3.6), and qualified consultants will
be employed by the same date (para. 4.14);
(e)   The Government will submit semiannual progress reports on project
implementation activities to IDA for review and comment by March 31 and
September 30 of each year commencing September 30, 1997 (para. 4.15);



- 34 -
(f)   The Government will prepare and furnish to IDA a first-year review report
no later than January 31, 1998 (para. 4.12);
(g)   The Government will submit a midterm review report to IDA for review and
comment by December 31, 1998 (para. 4.33); and
(h)   The Government will ensure annual auditing using an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. Detailed audit reports will be submitted to IDA within
nine months of the closing of the government's fiscal year. The first-year
audit report will cover January to December 1997 (para. 4.29).
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   Issuance of the Operational Manual (para. 4.6);
(b)   The PID and the PPMUs of four identified provinces will be established and
heads appointed (para. 4.1); and
Conditions of Disbursement
(a)   Specific RAPs will be required if 150 or more people are affected in each
road link. If fewer than 150 people are affected, a time-bound action plan
for compensation and resettlement will be prepared in accordance with the
agreed policy framework. The submission to and approval of a specific RAP
or action plan by IDA and completion of resettlement activities will be a
condition of disbursement against civil works for concerned road links (para.
5.13);
(b)   The Government will prepare and submit to IDA an Environmental Impact
Assessment for roads located within forest buffer zones including a time-
bound action plan for undertaking the environmental mitigating measures
before disbursement is made against civil works for such roads (para. 5.11);
and
(c)   For road links to be built in ethnic minorities areas, an ethnic minorities
development plan will be prepared and submitted to IDA for approval prior
to disbursements for works on such roads (para. 5.14).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Credit
to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in the amount of SDR 37.8 million (US$55.0 million
equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity.



Viet Nam: Rural Transport Project
Provincial Revenue and Expenditure in selected provinces (1995)
Unit: Million VND
Provincial Revenue                      Provincial Expenditures
1995 GDP               Of which:                             Of which:
per capita   Total  Transfer fr cen Govt   Total    road investment   of which:Maintenance
('OOOVND)            VNDDVND                                        VND
Ha Giang         793.00   263.79   216 62      2       258.30    37 42    14*       25.66
Lai Chau         770.00   268.90   224.33    eSa 264.87                              62
Vinh Phu       1,206.00   342.30   241.00    701       362.00    29.89                9.15"S
Bac Thai       3,003.00   288.62    100.00'     4      288.62     1 5 00              5.20
Than Hoa       2,310.00   504.00                       591.00    27.41      4         8.50*    14
Nghe An        2,277.00    504.28         ...          483.18     4.73                4.15
Ha Ting        1,650.00   270.00   171 50              285.80     6.58                1.80:'
BenTre         2,167.00   250.19   246.15              250.19     12.55               2.61
Tra Vinh       1,980.00    105.00    101.05: .  .      212.39     11.94               1.49
Minh Hai       20.961  257.56                          463.90    1049                 1.66
Source: MOT/PMU18 and mission estimates
I!



Vietnam: Rural Transport Project
Key Project Monitoring Indicators
PY1      PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5      Total
Input Indicators
1. Recruitment of Intemational Technical Advisor (mm)                    12       16        16        16       10        70
2. Organizing workshops & training for:
@PID                                                              1        1    -          -        -            2
@ PPMUs                                                          2         2         1        1         1        7
@ contractors                                                    2         2         2        1         1        8
3. Procuring necessary maintenance equipment (% of required tools)        0       25        75       100        0
Output Indicators
4. Length of rehabilitated road      (Km)                               200      1000     1800      1400      600      5000
5. Cumulative length of mainted road  (Km)                                0      200      1200      3000     4400      5000
6. Accessibility of road during wet season* (see Accessibility Index below)  10     8        7         6        5
Development Impact Indicators
7. Increase in household income from off-farm work(% incr. fr. base-line stud  0%  5%     10%       15%       15%
8. Increase in no. of trips to economic & social infrastructure         0%        5%      10%       15%       15%
9. Increase in the size of contract undertaken by small contractors  < $50,000 < $60,000 < $75,000 > $75,000  >$75,000
Notes:   Accessibility Index:
5 = Excellent     - 2WD car in all weather
6 = Good          - 2WD car in dry season only
7 = Fair          - 4WD Cong Nong in all weather
8 = Poor          - 4WD Cong Nong in dry season only
10 = Failed        - Not passable by 4WD
Suffix A:          - Not passable due to missing structure



-37-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Viet Nam - Rural Transport Project
Rural Roads Information System
1.    MOT and its representatives in the provinces, PDOTs, are involved among other
things, in the collection and management of several layers of transportation related
information. These information is used by MOT and PDOTs in planning, design,
implementation and management of Transportation projects, as well as by other
government agencies, each for their own use. MOT has recognized the need for Modern
Information Technology to support these functions. Therefore, MOT should be
empowered to face these challenges by developing a system capable of storing,
maintaining and manipulating roads related information. The system would be based on
the Geographic Information System (GIS) technology which links digital maps to tabular
database and would be built at the top of advances already made in the Ministry of
Transport in this area. During project preparation, rural roads inventories were prepared
and entered in computerized tabular database (in Microsoft Excel format), and linked to
hard copy maps using a well defined spatial reference. The proposed work would include
preparing Rural Roads Information System Implementation Plan, build the first phase of
the implementation plan (a simple GIS system that can be used for data storage and
maintenance), and develop a simple application for Rural Roads Prioritization.
2.    The slow learning curve of absorbing the Information Technology is recognized
and should be taken into consideration throughout the program in order to ensure the
achievements of the project's physical targets. Therefore, implementation of Rural Roads
Information System will first be developed using a simple system that supports data
collection, storage and maintenance and the development of one application for Rural
Roads Prioritization's. The database would be designed so that in the future the system
would support applications such as planning, roads maintenance, and monitoring and
evaluation.
System Components
3.    The scope of work for the project includes:
(a)    developing Rural Roads Information System Implementation Plan;
(b)   Implementing the first phase of the plan, including a simple application
using GIS to collect, store and manipulate Rural Roads Spatial Data;
(c)   development of a simple application for Rural Roads Prioritization; and
(d)   Training and Technology Transfer.
Implementation Plan
4.    The Consultant will review progress and performance of existing roads information
systems already in use in MOT and Other related agencies, document Hardware,



-38-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Software, and existing data models. Then, the Consultant would prepare Rural Roads
Implementation Plan to be used for rural roads building on the advances already made in
MOT in this area. This would include definition of Hardware, Software, data model and
developing strategies for System Architecture and implementation strategy. Furthermore,
the study would identify the business needs and applications that would be supported by
the system.
Implementing Phase I of the Proposed Plan
5.    The consultant would implement Phase I of the proposed plan. This would include
purchase and installation of Hardware and Software, conversion of GIS related data for
Rural Roads Network and also National and Provincial Network for the 15 provinces. It is
preferably that data conversion, specially digitizing, be done by PMU 18 staff under direct
supervision from the consultants. However, Quality Control and the linkage between
Spatial and Tabular data would be the responsibility of the consultant,
6.    Spatial data that would be entered in the system include, administrative boundaries,
National, Provincial, District, and Communal boundaries if applicable. Roads Spatial data
would include National, Provincial, District and Communal Roads. Some of these spatial
data might already exist in Digital format, therefore the consultants might be required to
import these data into the system instead of digitizing it from hard copy maps.
Developing Simle Application for Rural Roads Prioritization
7.    Since the demand is so high compared to the available funds, prioritization of
roads to be included under the project is an important factor in the planning process.
Therefore, the consultant would develop an application for roads prioritization using the
methodology described in the Operational Manual. The methodology uses the No. of
beneficiaries per Km, Network considerations and socio-economic factors. Relevant
Chapters in the Operational Manual would be included in this TOR as an attachment.
Training and Technology Transfer
8.    The consultant would provide one week seminar for PMU18 and other MOT in
introduction of GIS Technology. Topics included are spatial data, spatial analysis, map
projection, database design, and applications of GIS in Transportation Management. The
consultant would also provide on the job training from PMUI8 staff to use the system. He
will also train PMU18 staff digitizing, Quality Control, Map Production, and system
customization.
9.    PMU1 8 would provide a full time information systems specialist to work with the
International Consultants. This person would be responsible for managing the system,
including data conversion for the rest of the Network after consultants departure. PMU1 8
would also provide low skilled staff for data entry including digitizing.



-39-                        Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
VIET NAM - RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE STRATEGY
STUDY TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backiground
1.    The activities of the Rural Transport Project include three components:
(a)   rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance using sport improvement
techniques;
(b)   institutional strengthening and training of local contractors; and
(c)   a study to address the issues of rural transport development.
The project concept and design was based on preparation and planning work carried out
by a Government Project Preparation Team and consultants retained under a grant from
PHRD, Japan. Annex 1 presents a brief outline of the project objectives and components.
2.    This project is the first phase of a projected longer term program to improve the
rural access transport network in Viet Nam and its focus will be to promote economic and
social development and to alleviate poverty in rural areas by facilitating rural access and
enhancing opportunities for market agriculture surplus and integrating local populations
into regional and national economies. However, there is a paucity of detailed data and
information relating to Viet Nam economic, social, institutional and physical development
and about the inter-linkages between these different aspects of its development,
particularly in relation to the vast majority of its population that live and work in the rural
areas. The proposed study will provide an improved basis for policy formulation, strategy
development, investment planning and programming and institutional structures and
systems for future investments in and attention to improvement, operation and
maintenance of rural infrastructure. It will also apply these improved approaches to
formulate a strategy and plan of action that will guide projected follow on investments in
the rural infrastructure sector.
Study Objectives
3.    The study's sphere of interest will be the various elements of rural infrastructure
that impinge on the economic, social and welfare development of rural populations, in
particular, transport infrastructure both land and water based, but also, to the extent that
accessibility to economic, social and welfare facilities is directly related to the location of
these facilities, the study will consider issues related to location decisions for such
facilities. Accordingly, the study objectives are:



-40-                         Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
(a)    To review the Government's ongoing policies, strategies and programs for
rural infrastructure development, operation and maintenance and for the
establishment and development of related institutional capacity;
(b)   To review the role of rural infrastructure and its use in facilitating
agricultural growth and rural development in Viet Nam and its role in
alleviating poverty and addressing the effects of poverty on rural people
including different social and minority groups and of each gender;
(c)    To assess current rural infrastructure constraints and needs, institutions and
policies, financing mechanisms, local capacity for construction and
maintenance and technology choices, particularly for using labor-based
approaches and natural materials for road and track improvements and
pavements and for travel and transport means that are simple, adequate and
affordable for the needs of rural populations;
(d)   In the light of the above reviews and assessments, to recommend any
changes required in existing policies, strategies, programs and institutions
and to elaborate a national strategy for the sub-sector consistent with Viet
NamO
modernization and industrialization and transition to a market economy as
well as its ongoing process of decentralization and its objectives to improve
rural access and service quality to the rural poor and thus enhance rural and
regional development.
4.    An important part of the study will be the development of a data bank on
accessibility and the needs of the rural infrastructure networks, their development,
operation and maintenance.
Scoope of Work
5.    The first task will be to assemble and summarize the data on supply and demand
for rural infrastructure, the impacts of rural infrastructure (where available) in Viet Nam
and data on allocations, releases and expenditures for rural infrastructure. Figures should
be assembled to include latest expenditure information and would build upon the report
Viet Nam - Transport Sector- Serving an Economy in Transition Il 994). The study will
analyze these data to illustrate the overall patterns in supply and demand for rural
infrastructure. The statements prepared with this data will serve as the basis for analyzing
the service delivery and resource requirements for rural infrastructure.
6.    Aggregate levels of funding and infrastructure stocks will be compared to common
indicators such as GDP, income and employment; provincial and regional indicators will
also be contrasted and compared. The supply of rural infrastructure, in terms of resource
allocation, will be analyzed over time and space. Expenditure will be analyzed in terms of
their composition - e.g. rehabilitation, maintenance, new construction - and the level for



-41-                           Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
each item compared to estimates of global requirements (i.e. maintenance and
rehabilitation).
7.    Budgeting preparation and execution practices for rural infrastructure at the
national, provincial and project specific level will be assessed from a review of current
practice in MOT and PDOTs as well as District and commune levels. This review could be
conducted with the assistance of local consultants who will assess the current
arrangements for implementing public expenditure decisions in the infrastructure sector.
8.    The quality of service delivery will be analyzed in relation to the standards of rural
infrastructure and service characteristics. This aspect of the study will be limited by the
relative paucity of information on detailed condition surveys of the existing rural
infrastructure stock and the difficulties associated with measuring quality of service (e.g.
rural transport). Local consultants may be engaged to collect additional data as necessary.
Also the study should recommend future strategies for addressing the paucity of
information and data and should consider the need for a more detailed travel and transport
survey and study, perhaps in the form of a research project for a post graduate candidate
sponsored through a fellowship or scholarship program.
9.    Once the analyses of resource allocation and financial resource mobilization are
completed a global estimate of resource requirements, by activity, can be prepared for
different scenarios. The scenarios would be prepared based on findings of the review of
the rural development strategy. Based on the global estimates of resource requirements for
each scenario considered, sub-sector specific recommendations would be prepared and a
rural infrastructure strategy will be developed. The strategy will present a position on
sectoral priorities and weigh the budgetary and institutional limitations identified. Existing
levels of funding and current trends will be compared with the estimated needs to
implement the rural infrastructure strategy.
10.   Key considerations of the Study in relation to the elements of the rural
infrastructure system will be:
(a)    The information base - including accurate base and inventory maps,
inventories of the stock and operational condition of a range of physical
facilities, including but not limited to transport infrastructure, and traffic
data;
(b)    Accessibility Planning - responding to such questions as who needs access
to what, for what reason or purpose, by what (likely) means of transport,
with what relative priority and with what prospective return or effect?;
(c)   Infrastructure Development and Maintenance - based on the results of
accessibility planning and taking into account such issues as appropriate
design and technology, construction standards, quality and longevity of
outputs, the modality and management of delivering those outputs and
maintenance standards; and



-42-                              Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
(d)    Complementary Interventions - including a potentially wide range of
transport and non-transport activities geared to accelerating the response
to infrastructure development and to minimizing the travel and transport
burden among the target group as a whole.
11.   With sustained access, mobility and minimization of the travel and transport
burden as a major objective of the proposed strategy, it will be necessary to monitor the
rural transport system as a whole and to apply a management system to rural infrastructure
including maintenance management.
Risks
12.   The most significant risk faced by the proposed study is the fact that some cross-
sectoral issues- across various types of rural infrastructure would be only superficially
analyzed given the type of data presently available and expected to be collected by the
study. Efforts will be needed to focus on the themes across sub-sectors. A further risk will
arise from the inertia expected within existing institutions and agencies associated with
rural infrastructure as well as from existing professional staff, including engineers, who
may resist cooperation and collaboration if they feel their professional reputations under
threat when their past works and decisions are put under scrutiny as candidates for
modernization.
Output and Audience
13.   The study is expected to assist the Government and donors in planning for rural
infrastructure investments, operation and maintenance. Since the study is expected to
improve allocation of resources in rural infrastructure, provide the framework for future
rural infrastructure lending and identify a resource envelope, it will assist GovernmentO
current efforts to improve service delivery and address poverty issues in rural areas.
Specific outputs of the study will include a rural infrastructure strategy with specific
priorities, policy, institutional and financial reform recommendations. A draft Table of
Contents is attached.



-43-                           Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE STRATEGY STUDY
REPORT - PROPOSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.    BACKGROUND AND MAIN ISSUES
A:    Macro Economic Framework and Rural Infrastructure
B:    Rural Infrastructure System
C:    Networks
II    THE SUPPLY AND DEMAND FOR RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
A:    Level and Composition of Stock
B:    Evaluation of Recent Achievements
C:    Socio-Econornic Impact of Rural Infrastructure
D:    Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Productivity
E:    Rural Infrastructure and Non-Farm Economic Opportunities
F:    Transport Infrastructure Conditions and Size of Networks
G:    Regional Development Considerations
III    RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND DECENTRALIZATION
A:    Planning
B:    Programming and Budgeting
C:    Monitoring and Performance Evaluation
D:    Community Participation
E:    Issues and Policy Options
IV    HUMAN RESOURCE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A:    MOT, PDOTs, District and Commune level
B:    Staff Development
C:    Private Sector Development
D:    Issues and Policy Options
V     MAINTENANCE OUTPUT AND PREVAILING STANDARDS
A:    Existing Situation
B:    Issues and Policy Options
VI    TECHNICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND LEVEL OF SERVICE
A:    Transport Infrastructure, Structures and Equipment
B:    Buildings
C:    Equipment, Travel and Transport Means.
D:    Appropriate Technology and Approaches.
VII FINANCIAL RESOURCE MOBILIZATION



-44-                 Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
VIII RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENT
OF RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
A:  Unit Costs
B:  Resource Requirements
IX  RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE STRATEGY AND ACTION PLAN
ANNEXES AND ATTACHMENTS



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM - RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(January 1996 prices)
-------1996 -1997 -1998 -1999-
Items                             Loc   Fore    Tot    Loca   Forei    Tota    Loc   Forei    Tota    Loca   Fore    Tota
____  ------ -----  -- -  -(US$: '000) --------------------------
RuraI Roads Rehab-ilt-atlonjMalntenance
a. Engineering design          9.4    1.0    10.4    46.8         5.2    52.0   93.6    10.4   104.0   140.4   15.6   156.0
b. Civil Works               676.2  169.1   845.3  3381.0   845.3  4226.3 6762.0  1690.5  8452.5 10143.0 2535.8 12678.8
c. Maintenance cost incl    28.3   15.3    43.6   141.6    76.3   217.9  283.2   152.5   435.8   424.9  228.8   653.6
d. Supervision cost, of which:
- Technical Advisory &    0.0   35.7    35.7         0.0   178.5   178.5    0.0   357.0   357.0          0.0  535.5   535.5
- PID's office, transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salar    1.5    0.0         1.5     7.5      0.0      7.5   15.0       0.0    15.0    22.5    0.0    22.5
@ Office & other eq    0.6    0.6         1.1     8.3      8.3    16.6    8.3        8.3    16.6      5.5    5.5    11.0
@ Local travel & ad    1.5    0.4         1.9     7.7      1.9      9.6   15.4       3.8    19.2    23.0    5.8    28.8
- PPMUs' office, Transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salar   17.1    0.0    17.1    85.5          0.0    85.5  171.0        0.0   171.0   256.5      0.0   256.5
@ Office & transpor   10.6   10.6    21.2   159.1   159.1   318.2  159.1   159.1   318.2   106.1  106.1   212.1
@ Local travel & ad   10.8    2.7    13.5    54.0    13.5    67.5  108.0    27.0   135.0   162.0   40.5   202.5
e. Land acquisition cost       5.3    0.0       5.3    26.3       0.0    26.3   52.7       0.0    52.7    79.0    0.0    79.0
f. Resettlement and minor    0.0    0.0         0.0    15.0      0.0    15.0   37.5        0.0    37.5    52.5    0.0    52.5
Subtotal            761.3  235.3   996.6  3917.8  1288.0  5205.8 7668.3  2408.6 10076.9 11362.9 3473.4 14836.3
Instituional Strengthening
a. Workshop & training:
to PMU18 and PPMUs          5.2    7.8      13.0    26.0    39.1    65.1   52.1    78.1   130.2    78.1  117.2   195.3
to contracting industr    0.4    0.9         1.3     2.0      4.6      6.6    4.0       9.2    13.2      5.9   13.9    19.8
b. Rural road information    0.0    0.0         0.0    24.0    96.0   120.0   36.0   144.0   180.0           0.0    0.0      0.0
Subtotal              5.6    8.7    14.3    52.0   139.7   191.7   92.0   231.4   323.4    84.1  131.0   215.1
Study
a. Inv.strategy for rural    0.0    0.0         0.0    26.0    74.0   100.0   65.0   185.0   250.0    39.0  111.0   150.0
Subtotal              0.0    0.0    0.0    26.0    74.0   100.0   65.0   185. 0   250.0    39.0  111.0   150.0
Total base cost             766.9  244.0  1010.9  3995.8  1501.7  5497.5 7825.3  2825.0 10650.3 11485.9 3715.5 15201.4
Physical contingencies (10%   76.7   24.4   101.1   399.6   150.2   549.8  782.5   282.5  1065.0  1148.6  371.6  1520.1
Total                       843.6  268.4  1112.0  4395.4  1651.8  6047.2 8607.8  3107.5 11715.3 12634.5 4087.0 16721.6
Price contingencies
Annual (1)              2.00   2.00                1.6      1.6              1.6     1.6               1.6    1.6
Compounded (1)          2.00   2.00                3.7      3.7             5.3      5.3               7.0    7.0
Amount                  16.9    5.4    22.2   160.4    60.3   220.7  458.8   165.6   624.4   889.5  287.7  1177.2
Project Total               860.4  273.8  1134.2  4555.8  1712.1  6267.9 9066.6  3273.1 12339.7 13524.0 4374.8 17898.8
Notes:                                                                                                                               P
a. 1996 exchange rate: US$1.00 =  Dong 11,000                                                                            m 0
b. All figures are rounded.                                                                                                 X
0
Ln'



------2000-------  ---------2001-------  ---------TOTAL-------
Items                                Loc   Fore    Tota    Loc   Fore    Tota    Loca   Forei    Tota
------  _____- -    (US$: 000)-
Rural Roads RehabIlitation/Maintenance
a. Engineering design             93.6   10.4   104.0   84.2    9.4    93.6   468.0    52.0   520.0
b. Civil Works                  6762.0 1690.5  8452.5 6085.8 1521.5  7607.3 33810.0  8452.5 42262.5
c. Maintenance cost incl tool  283.2  152.5   435.8  254.9  137.3   392.2  1416.2   762.6  2178.8
d. Supervision cost, of which:
- Technical Advisory L Sup      0.0  357.0   357.0    0.0  321.3   321.3        0.0  1785.0  1785.0
- PID's office, transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salary        15.0    0.0    15.0   13.5    0.0    13.5    75.0         0.0    75.0
* Office & other equipm    3.3    3.3        6.6    1.7    1.7       3.3    27.6    27.6    55.2
O Local travel & admin.    15.4    3.8    19.2   13.8    3.5    17.3    76.8    19.2    96.0
- PPMUs' office, Transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salary       171.0    0.0   171.0  153.9    0.0   153.9   855.0         0.0   855. 0
o Office & transport eq   63.6   63.6   127.3   31.8   31.8    63.6   530.3   530. 3  1060.5
@ Local travel & admin.   108.0   27.0   135.0   97.2   24.3   121.5   540.0   135.0   675.0                        1
e. Land acquisition cost          52.7    0.0    52.7   47.4    0.0    47.4   263.3         0.0   263.3                  O
f. Resettlement and minority    42.0    0.0    42.0    0.0    0.0          0.0   150.0      0.0   150.0
Subtotal              7567.8 2308.2  9876.0 6784.2 2050.6  8834.8 38212.1 11764.1 49976.3
Instituional Strengthening
a. Workshop & training:
to PMU18 and PPMUs             52.1   78.1   130.2   46.9   70.3   117.2   260.4   390.6   651.0
to contracting industry         4.0    9.2    13.2    3.6    8.3    11.9    19.8    46.2    66.0
b. Rural road information sys      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    60.0   240.0   300.0
Subtotal                 56.0   87.4   143.4   50.4   78.6   129.1   340.2   676.8  1017.0
Study
a. Inv.strategy for rural tra    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0   130.0   370.0   500.0
Subtotal                  0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0   130.0   370.0   500.0
Total base cost                7623.9 2395.6 10019.4 6834.7 2129.2  8963.9 38682.3 12810.9 51493.3
Physical contingencies (10%)       762.4  239.6  1001.9  683.5  212.9   896.4  3868.2  1281.1  5149.3
Total                          8386.3 2635.1'11021.4 7518.2 2342.1  9860.3 42550.6 14092.0 56642.6
Price contingencies
Annual (%)                   2.2    2.2              2.2    2.2
Compounded (%)               9.4    9.4            11.9   11.9
Amount                     790.0 ,248.2  1038.2  892.4  278.0  1170.4  3208.0  1045.3  4253.2             r >
OQ p
Project Total                 "9176.3 2883.3 12059.6 8410.6 2620.2 11030.7 45758.5 15137.3 60895.8              0 X
==5=  ===  ====    ===   =,= ====         ----- = ==  , ==  ====    
0
|                                                              @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM - RURAL TRANSPORT PROJF.'T
Project Cost Estimates
(January 1996 prices)
--------1996 ----    ------1997--------   -------1998-------   ------   1999 ----
Items                             Loc   Fore    Tot    Loca   Forei    Tota    Loc   Forei    Tota    Loca   Fore    Tota
---- ------ ------ ------- -------   (Vietnam Dong:. billi  ------ ------- ------ -------
RuralT Roads Rehabilit-ationjMalntenance
a. Engineering design         0.10   0.01   0.11    0.51    0.06    0.57   1.03    0.11    1.14    1.54   0.17    1.72
b. Civil Works                7.44   1.86   9.30   37.19    9.30   46.49  74.38   18.60   92.98  111.57  27.89  139.47
c. Maintenance cost incl    0.31   0.17   0.48    1.56    0.84    2.40   3.12    1.68    4.79    4.67   2.52    7.19
d. Supervision cost, of which:
- Technical Advisory &   0.00   0.39   0.39    0.00    1.96    1.96   0.00    3.93    3.93    0.00   5.89    5.89
- PID's office, transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salar   0.02   0.00   0.02    0.08    0.00    0.08   0.17    0.00    0.17    0.25   0.00    0.25
@ Office & other eq   0.01   0.01   0.01    0.09    0.09    0.18   0.09    0.09    0.18    0.06   0.06    0.12
@ Local travel & ad   0.02   0.00   0.02    0.08    0.02    0.11   0.17    0.04    0.21    0.25   0.06    0.32
- PPMUs' office, Transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salar   0.19   0.00   0.19    0.94    0.00    0.94   1.88    0.00    1.88    2.82   0.00    2.82
* Office & transpor   0.12   0.12   0.23    1.75    1.75    3.50   1.75    1.75    3.50    1.17   1.17    2.33
* Local travel & ad   0.12   0.03   0.15    0.59    0.15    0.74   1.19    0.30    1.49    1.78   0.45    2.23
e. Land acquisition cost    0.06   0.00   0.06    0.29    0.00    0.29   0.58    0.00    0.58    0.87   0.00    0.87
f. Resettlement and minor   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.17    0.00    0.17   0.41    0.00    0.41    0.58   0.00    0.58
Subtotal             8.37   2.59  10.96   43.26   14.17   57.43  84.76   26.49  111.26  125.57  38.21  163.78
Instituional Strengthening
a. Workshop & training:
to PMU18 and PPMUs         0.06   0.09   0.14    0.29    0.43    0.72   0.57    0.86    1.43    0.86   1.29    2.15
to contracting industr   0.00   0.01   0.01    0.02    0.05    0.07   0.04    0.10    0.15    0.07   0.15    0.22
b. Rural road information   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.26    1.06    1.32   0.40    1.58    1.98    0.00   0.00    0.00
Subtotal             0.06   0.10   0.16    0.57    1.54    2.11   1.01    2.54    3.56    0.92   1.44    2.37
Study
a. Inv.strategy for rural   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.29    0.81    1.10   0.72    2.04    2.75    0.43   1.22    1.65
Subtotal             0.00   0.00   0.00    0.29    0.81    1.10   0.72    2.04    2.75    0.43   1.22    1.65
Total base cost              8.44   2.68  11.12   43.95   16.52   60.47  86.08   31.07  117.15  126.35  40.87  167.22
Physical contingencies (10%    0.8    0.3    1.1          4.4     1.7      6.1    8.6       3.1    11.7    12.6    4.1    16.7
Total                         9.3    3.0   12.2    48.4    18.2    66.5   94.7    34.2   128.9   139.0   45.0   183.9
Price continqencies
Annual (%)             10.00  10.00              6.00    6.00             6.00    6.00               6.00   6.00
Compounded (%)         10.00  10.00             16.60   16.60            23.60   23.60              31.01  31.01
Amount                   0.9    0.3    1.2        8.0      3.0    11.1   22.4       8.1    30.4    43.1   13.9    57.0
Project Total                10.2     3.3   13.5    56.4    21.2    77.6  117.0    42.3   159.3   182.1   58.9   241.0
a. 1996 exchange rate: US$1.00 =  Dong 11,000
b. All figures are rounded.
I.. X
0
I1n



----------2000-------  ---------2001-------  ---------TOT AL------
Items                                Loc   Fore    Tota    Loc   Fore    Tota    Loca   Forei    Tota
------ ------ -------   (Vietnam Dong: billi------- ------- -------
Rural Roads RehaElilitation/Maintenance
a. Engineering design             1.03   0.11    1.14   0.93   0.10    1.03    5.15    0.57    5.72
b. Civil Works                   74.38  18.60   92.98  66.94  16.74   83.68  371.91   92.98  464.89
c. Maintenance cost incl tool   3.12   1.68    4.79   2.80   1.51    4.31   15.58    8.39   23.97
d. Supervision cost, of which:
- Technical Advisory & Sup  0.00   3.93    3.93   0.00   3.53    3.53    0.00   19.64   19.64
- PID's office, transport & Admin.
* Local staff salary       0.17   0.00    0.17   o.15   0.00    0.15    0.83    0.00    0.83
* Office & other eauipm  0.04   0.04    0.07   0.02   0.02    0.04    0.30    0.30    0.61
@ Local travel & admin.   0.17   0.04    0.21   0.15   0.04    0.19    0.84    0.21    1.06
- PPMUs' office, Transport & Admin.
* Local staff salary       1.88   0.00    1.88   1.69   0.00    1.69    9.41    0.00    9.41
@ Office & transport eq  0.70   0.70    1.40   0.35   0.35    0.70    5.83    5.83   11.67                             1
@ Local travel & admin.   1.19   0.30    1.49   1.07   0.27    1.34    5.94    1.49    7.43                           -P
e. Land acquisition cost          0.58   0.00    0.58   0.52   0.00    0.52    2.90    0.00    2.90                          X
f. Resettlement and minority    0.46   0.00    0.46   0.00   0.00    0.00    1.62    0.00    1.62                            i
Subtotal               83.71  25.39  109.10  74.63  22.56   97.18  420.30  129.41  549.71
Instituional Strengthening
a. Workshop & training:
to PMU18 and PPMUs            0.57   0.86    1.43   0.52   0.77    1.29    2.86    4.30    7.16
to contracting industry       0.04   0.10    0.15   0.04   0.09    0.13    0.22    0.51    0.73
b. Rural road information sys  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.66    2.64    3.30
Subtotal                0.62   0.96    1.58   0.55   0.86    1.42    3.74    7.44   11.19
Studies
a. Inv.strategy for rural tra  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    1.43    4.07    5.50
Subtotal                0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    1.43    4.07    5.50
Total base cost                 83.86  26.35  110.21  75.18  23.42   98.60  425.51  140.92  566.43
Physical contingencies (10%)         8.4    2.6    11.0    7.5    2.3         9.9    42.6    14.1    56.6
Total                            92.3   29.0   121.2   82.7   25.8   108.5   468.1   155.0   623.1
Price contingencies
Annual (%)                 5.00   5.00              5.00   5.00
Compounded (e)            37.56  37.56   ,        44.44  44.44
Amount                     34.7   10.9  / 45.5   36.8   11.5    48.2   145.8    47.7   193.5
- - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -
Project Total                   126.9   39.9 l 166.8  11,9.5   37.2   156.7   613.9   202.7   816.5            X P
===    == |===    ====es=e====   ===   === ===X
0
U'



Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Rural Transport Project
Project Cost Estimates
(January 1996 prices)
*
Items                           --(Dong:billion)---    -------(US$:'000)--- Foreig       of
Loc   Fore    Tot    Loca  Foreig   Tota to tot  total
Rural Roads Rehabilitation/Maintenance
a. Engineering design          5.1    0.6    5.7   468.0    52.0   520.0  10.0    0.85
b. Civil Works               371.9   93.0  464.9 33810.0  8452.5 42262.5  20.0   69.40
c. Maintenance cost incl      15.6    8.4   24.0  1416.2   762.6  2178.8  35.0    3.58
d. Supervision cost, of which:
- Technical Advisory &      0.0   19.6   19.6       0.0  1785.0  1785.0 100.0    2.93
- PID's office, transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salar      0.8    0.0    0.8    75.0        0.0    75.0   0.0    0.12
* Office & other eq      0.3    0.3    0.6    27.6    27.6    55.2  50.0    0.09
@ Local travel & ad      0.8    0.2    1.1    76.8    19.2    96.0  20.0    0.16
- PPMUs' office, Transport & Admin.
@ Local staff salar      9.4    0.0    9.4   855.0        0.0   855.0   0.0    1.40
* Office & transpor      5.8    5.8   11.7   530.3   530.3  1060.5  50.0    1.74
* Local travel & ad      5.9    1.5    7.4   540.0   135.0   675.0  20.0    1.11
e. Land acquisition cost       2.9    0.0    2.9   263.3        0.0   263.3   0.0    0.43
f. Resettlement and minor      1.6    0.0    1.6   150.0        0.0   150.0   0.0    0.25
Subtotal            420.3  129.4  549.7 38212.1 11764.1 49976.3  23.5   82.07
Instituional Strengthening
a. Workshop & training:
to PMU18 and PPMUs          2.9    4.3    7.2   260.4   390.6   651.0  60.0    1.07
to contracting industr      0.2    0.5    0.7    19.8    46.2    66.0  70.0    0.11
b. Rural road information      0.7    2.6    3.3    60.0   240.0   300.0  80.0    0.49
Subtotal               3.7    7.4   11.2   340.2   676.8  1017.0  66.5    1.67
Study
a. Inv.strategy for rural      1.4    4.1    5.5   130.0   370.0   500.0  74.0    0.82
Subtotal               1.4    4.1    5.5   130.0   370.0   500.0  74.0    0.82
Total base cost             425.5  140.9  566.4 38682.3 12810.9 51493.3  24.9   84.56
Physical contingencies (10%    42.6   14.1   56.6  3868.2  1281.1  5149.3  24.9    8.46
Total                       468.1  155.0  623.1 42550.6 14092.0 56642.6  24.9   93.02
Price contingencies                                                                                           1 
Annual (%)                                                                                             0 
Compounded (%)                                                                                        m >
Amount                  145.8   47.7  193.5  3208.0  1045.3  4253.2  24.6    6.98                      C X
Ulin
Project Total               613.9  202.7  816.5 45758.5 15137.3 60895.8  24.9  100.00                      o
.-      flSa S        s Zfl.   =. .    . .  l  ....   ... .
Notes:
A. 1996 exchange rate: UW$1.00 *  Dong 11,000
,b. All figures are roundad.



-50-                                  Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Rural Roads Project
Outline Terms of Reference for Implementation Advisor
Background
1.    The Government of Vietnam expects to receive a Credit from the International
Development Association (IDA) to implement the Rural Roads Project in 15 provinces in
the country over a period estimated to be from three to five years. The project has three
components: (i) implementation of spot improvement program of about 5000 km of -
district roads and corresponding routine maintenance; (ii) institutional strengthening for
implementing agencies at the central and provincial government and providing training to
local contractors; and (iii) a study of issues related to rural transport.
2.    The project would be managed at two levels: (i) central level in Hanoi under
Project Implementation Division (PID) within PMU18, Ministry of Transport and
Communication; and (ii) provincial level in provinces under the Provincial Project
Management Unit (PPMU) under Provincial Department of Transportation (PDOTs). At
the central level, PID which would compromise of about 10 high level staff, would be
responsible for the overall management and coordination of project activities. At the
provincial level, PPMUs would be responsible for the day-to-day operational activities for
project implementation. Organization and staffing of PPMUs would be designed to adopt
implementation needs and would vary from 5 to 10 high level staff.
Objectives
3.    The objective of this Technical Assistance is to provide administrative and
technical support to the implementing agencies at the central and provincial levels.
Another objective is to transfer technology and know-how skills to local staff in order to
build the capacity of MOT and PDOTs to efficiently manage and maintain the National
Rural Roads Network.
Scope of Works
4.    A project advisor would be stationed in PMU18 initially for three years, and would
be extended to a maximum of five years if necessary. The advisor should have a civil
engineering or transportation degree with at least 10 years experience of administrative
and managerial responsibilities of roads, and preferably rural roads, institutions. It is
preferable that the advisor has cultural experience in South East Asia. Scope of work of
this advisor includes:
(a)         provide support to the Project Manager in:



-51-                             Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
(i)   general coordination including planning and budgeting activities;
(ii)   engineering and technical aspects related project implementation;
(iii)  project management including monitoring, evaluation and reporting;
(iv)  financial management including preparation of disbursement plans
and arranging annual audits;
(v)   institutional strengthening focusing on training and interprovincial
activities;
(vi)  evaluation and revision of the Operational Manual; and
(vii)  procuring Goods and Services.
5.    General coordination includinz planning and budgeting activities. The advisor
would provide direct support to the project manager in the overall management and  .
coordination of project activities. The advisor would also advise the Project Manager in
the improvement of planning methodology, economic analysis, traffic engineering, and
poverty evaluation. More specifically, the advisor would:
(a)   evaluate the distribution of funds criteria used during the preparation stage
and recommend improvements;
(b)   evaluate the eligibility criteria for roads selection in light of the data
collected in the 11 provinces and the information collected during the first
year program and recommend modifications;
(c)   evaluate the ranking methodology used for roads selection during the
first year program and recommend improvements.
6.    Provide advise on engineering and technical aspects related to project
implementation. The advisor would provide support to the project manager on the newly
introduced technical approaches such as spot improvement and contracting procedures
including pre-qualification, bidding, evaluation and awarding contracts. In addition, the
Advisor would provide support to PPMUs to implement the project according the
Operational Manual. In particular the advisor would:
(a)   assist PPMUs to carry out the simplified engineering design for roads to be
rehabilitated under the project according to the Technical Guidelines
Manual; and
(b)   advise the project manager on the need to change the Vietnamese bridge
loading standards on rural roads to match current and future needs.



-52-                             Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
7.    Assist Project Manager in Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting. The advisor
would provide direct support to the Project Manager in monitoring and evaluating project
activities, and would support PID in the development and installation of the monitoring,
evaluation and reporting system.
(a)   draft TOR for Information Systems Specialist to develop a conceptual
design for the computerized monitoring and evaluation system;
(b)   draft TOR for local consultants selection to implement the monitoring
and evaluation system and train PMU18 to operate the system;
(c)   assist the Project Manager in project evaluation;
(d)   assist the Project Manager in preparing the semi-annual progress reports to
be submitted to IDA every six months;
(e)   assist the project manager in preparing the Mid-Term review Report.
8.    Financial management including preparation of disbursement plans. disbursement.
and arranging annual audits. The advisor would assist the project manager in testing the
financial and accounting procedures and the compliance with the World Bank
documentation and disbursement requirements.
(a)   assist PID to process, aggregate and update annual disbursement plans to
be submitted to GDDI;
(b)   assist PID in setting up procedures for payment processing;
(c)   assist PID in preparing Statement of Expenditures for Special Account
replenishment; and
(d)   assist Project Manager to arrange for Annual audits.
9.    Institutional Strengthening Focusing On Training And Interprovincial Activities.
The project advisor would help to organize and manage training activities in project
preparation, management, and monitoring and evaluation.
(a)   assist the Project Manager to organize workshops, and seminars;
(b)   draft TOR to recruit training specialists to conduct the seminars and
workshops; and
(c)   assist the Project Manager to organize study tours.
10.   Evaluation And Revision Of The Operational Manual. In light of implementation
lessons, the advisor would present recommendations to revise the Operational Manual. In
particular, the advisor would:



-53-                                 Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
(a)   help PID to implement routine maintenance strategy, and to complete the
missing part of the manual; and
(b)   assist PID to update/complete both the Operational Procedure and the
Technical Guidelines Manuals.
11.   Procuring Goods and Services. Assist the Project Manager in procurement issues
according to IDA guidelines and Government procedures as specified in the Credit
Agreement.
(a)   prepare TOR and bidding documents, seek prior approval of IDA for ICB
contracts as specified in the Credit Agreement.
(b)   assist project manager in procuring other items, in particular purchase of
goods, and contracting routine maintenance.
(c)   assist the project manager in seeking IDA's prior approval for the first three
Civil Works contracts in each province.
12.   In addition to the Project Advisor, the Consultant would supply on demand several
qualified specialist of an estimated amount in total of 10 man-months. Training and
Information Systems Specialists have been identified during project preparation. Other
expertise would be identified during implementation. For each specialist, the Consultant
would present TOR, Action Plan, and the corresponding CV to be approved by PMU18
and IDA. The advisor would also hire an equivalent of 80 man-months of local consultants
in relevant areas as weli as support staff and translators to assist him to undertake this
assignment.



-54-
Annex 7
VIETNAM
Rural transportation Project
Typical Costs
I. Spot Improvement - Typical Bill of Quantities -
Typical  Typical    Total
Unit  Volumes unit cost    US$
Earthworks                                               20
embankment         m3        800         2    1,600
Drainage                                                  25
pipe culvert       m          15       115    1,725
concrete           m3          2       120       240
Structure                                                 17
bridge             m2        2.7       500    1,350
Pavement                                                  34
gravelling         m3        300          9    2,700
Day works                                          385    5
Total US$/Km                                     8,000  100
II. Routine Maintenance Typical Cost
Typical  Typical    Total
Unit  Volumes unit cost    US$
LENGTHMAN WORK:   = === =            ====== ========-
fees lengthman   month          6        40       240   66
hand tools        set           1         60       60   17
supervision       month      0.15       100        15    4
motorcycle          Km        600      0.08        48   13
output 2Km/year                       total:       363  100
(cost Km/year)                                    182
GANG WORK
labour           month         33        30       990   33
Hand tools        set          10         39      390   13
supervision       month      0.75       100        75   _2
motor cycle         Km        200      0.08        16    1
Hand compactor      H         120          1      120    4
gravel hauling    m3Km       6000       0.2      1200   40
truck               h          48          5      240    8
output 20 Km/year                     total:      3031  100
Gang cost US$/Km/Year                              152
Lengthman cost plus gang cost : US$/Km/Year        333
contingencies 20 %                                  67
Routine Maintenance cost US$/Km/Year               400



-55-
Annex 8
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Rural Transport Project
Estimate Disbursement Schedule
IDA fiscal year and   Disbursement  Cumulative     Disbursement Profiles
semester ending    in semester                             %
US$ Million   US$ Million  %    Regional Regional
transport agriculture
1997
December 31, 1996           3.5        3.5      6.4       3.0      3.0
June 30, 1997               0.5        4.0      7.3      10.d      6.0
1998
December31, 1997            2.5        6.5     11.8      14.0     14.0
June 30, 1998               3.5       10.0     18.2     26.0      22.0
11999
December31, 1998            6.0       16.0     29.1     38.0      30.0
June 30, 1999               8.0       24.0     43.6      46.0     42.0
2000
December 31, 1999           9.0       33.0     60.0      58.0     50.0
June 30, 2000               7.0       40.0     72.7      70.0     58.0
2001
December 31, 2000           5.5       45.5     82.7      78.0     66.0
June 30, 2001               5.5       51.0     92.7      86.0     74.0
2002
December 31, 2001           4.0       55.0    100.0      94.0     82.0
June 30, 2002                                            98.0      90.0
2003
December 31, 2002                                       100.0     96.0
June 30, 2003                                                     100.0
Credit Closing: December 31, 2001



ItURAL TRlANSIPORT PROJECT
REPORT & FUNDS FLOW MECIIANISM                                    IDA
Ministry of Fiinance      (8)        State Bank of   | 9Y
(EFD)Vitan
(7V                                                            '    . (10 (
(2)                                   .                                                             ,(
CONTRACTORS            .
Report Flow
Counterpart Fund Flow     -. . .
IDA  Fund Flow        -.-.-.-.-. -*-*-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.
Drafted by: MOF
Dated: 23 August, 1996



-57-                                       Annex 10
VIETNAM- RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN (BASED ON JULY. 1996 BoARD DATA)
Approximate       Activity          Duration (Weeks)  Skill              Staff Weeks
Date                                                   Requirements
January, 1997     PLW                       2          TM, RE, PS, EC            8
October, 1997     SPN                       2          TM, RE, RR, IS            8 -
March, 1998       FYR                       2          TM, RE, EC, IS            8
October, 1998     SPN                       2          TM, RE                    4
March, 1999       MTR                       2          TM, RE, IS, EC            8
October, 1999     SPN                       2          TM, RE                    4
April, 2000       SPN                       2          TM, RE                    4
October, 2000     SPN                       2          TM, RE                    4
April, 2001       SPN                       2          TM, RE                    4
October, 2001     SPN                       2          TM, RE                    4
April, 2002       PCM                       2          TM, RE, EC                6
Required Skills                                     Activity
TM     Task Manager                                 PLW    Project Launch Workshop
RE     Roads Engineer                               SPN    Supervision
PS     Procurement Specialist                       FYR   First Year Review
RR     Resettlement Specialist                      MTR   Mid-Term Review
EC     Economist                                    PCM   Project Completion Mission
iS     Implementation Specialist



VN-Netwk.xls
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Transport Project
Road Network Analysis
Road Network of the 15 Project Provinces
Mapped**
(1993)  Population           Nation.      Prov.    -----------___        TOTAL      No.of    No.of
Region     GDP/capi   (1993)       Area      Roads     Roads       DR         CR      NETWORK
Province       ($)     million      Km2        Km         Km        Km         Kmi         Km     Commune District
Hagiang         61.4      0.535      7,831       365        346        379     2524         3614      172        10
Lao Cai         64.2      0.552      8,049       475        186        240     2444         3345      172       10
Lai Chau       108.8      0.521    17,140        414        422        258        35  *     1129      151         9
Bac Thai       134.2      1.168      6,503       290        287        824     2347         3748      242        13          Lii
Vin Phu        113.8      2.249      4,836       243        412       1241    10770  *   12666        395        14
Thanh Hoa      107.7      3.382    11,168        395        828       2127    12004  *   15354        624       23
Nghe An        113.3      2.743    16,381        438        434       1598      9760  *   12230       383        18
Ha Tinh         92.5      1.309      6,054       300        281        833     4904  *    6318        262        10
Binh Thuan      93.6      0.882      7,992       175        282        461     2279         3197      142         6
Kon Tum        124.6      0.226      9,934       150        187        496     2702         3535       90         7
Dac Lac        112.4      1.211    19,800        467        648        793     1495  *      3403      197        17
Ben Tre        126.7      1.331      2,247        12        291        442       953        1698      154         8
Soc Trang      111.2      1.197      3,107        95        221        455     1905  *    2676         94         7
Tra Vinh        87.3      0.958      2,369        40        120        312       763        1235       75         8
Minh Hai       142.9      1.757      7,689       146        186        620     2801         3753      119        14
Proj.Tot    106.31      20.021   131,100      4,005      5,131     11,079   57,686      77,901    3,272       174
Country Tot   191.1      72.509   330,991    11,484    16,142       31,264   91,210    150,100    9,970        535
Proj/country
(1)        55.63       27.61     39.61     34.87      31.79      35.44                          32.82    32.52
Notes:  1.  DR = District Roads,  CR = Communal Roads
*   Communal road data in these provinces are not reliable.                                                        m1
**  mapped during preparation and quoted passable to home made (Cong Nong) truck.
Source: General Statistical Office, MOT/PMU18, and mission estimate



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Transport Project
Road Network Analysis
Network Distribution and Population Density in the 15 Project Province
Urban      Rural
popul      popul
Region      ------distribution of network %-------   20 %                     ---Popul located on network----          Total
Province        NR        PR          DR        CR      ('000)  I ('000)         NR          PR        DR        CR     popul
Hagiang        10.10        9.57      10.49     69.84      107.0       428.0       107          46        50      332       535
Lao Cai        14.20        5.56       7.17     73.06      110.4       441.6    110.4           29        37      376       552
Lai Chau       36.67       37.38      22.85      3.10      104.2       416.8    104.2          246       150       20       521
Bac Thai        7.74        7.66      21.99     62.62      233.6       934.4    233.6           78       223      634    1,168
Vin Phu         1.92        3.25       9.80     85.03      449.8    1,799.2    449.8            60       180    1,560    2,249
Thanh Hoa       2.57        5.39      13.85     78.18      676.4    2,705.6    676.4           150       385    2,171    3,382
Nghe An         3.58        3.55      13.07     79.80      548.6    2,194.4    548.6            81       297    1,816    2,743
Ha Tinh         4.75        4.45      13.18     77.62      261.8    1,047.2    261.8            49       145      853    1,309
Binh Thuan      5.47        8.82      14.42     71.29      176.4       705.6    176.4           66       108      532       882
Kon Tum         4.24        5.29      14.03     76.44       45.2       180.8     45.2           10        26      144       226
Dac Lac        13.72       19.04      23.30     43.93      242.2       968.8    242.2          214       262      493    1,211
Ben Tre         0.71       17.14      26.03     56.12      266.2    1,064.8    266.2           184       279      602    1,331
Soc Trang       3.55        8.26      17.00     71.19      239.4       957.6    239.4           82      169       707    1,197
Tra Vinh        3.24        9.72      25.26     61.78      191.6       766.4    191.6           77      200       489       958
Minh Hai        3.89        4.96      16.52     74.63      351.4    1,405.6    351.4            72       242    1,092    1,757
Proj.Tot       5.14        6.59      14.22     74.05   4,004.2   16,016.8   4004.2          1,112    2,401   12,503   20,021
0Q0
'I-.
0
1-h



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Transport Project
Road Network Analysis
Characteristic of 1 Km of District Road
---------------Area of Influence per 1 Km-----------------
Total   -----------Areas (Km2)-------------        -------population-----
-----area of influence (km2)------        Area       Direct   Indirect  Total       Comunal   Direct  Indirect Total
NR        PR         DR         CR        Km2        Km2        Km2         Km2      road
Hagiang             0        834        913     6,084      7,831        2.41    16.05       18.46      0.32       132      877      1009
Lao Cai             0        522        673     6,854      8,049        2.80    28.56       31.36      0.30       154    1,567      1721
Lai Chau            0     10,116      6,185        839    17,140       23.97     3.25       27.22  not reli       583       79       662
Bac Thai            0        540      1,550     4,414      6,503        1.88     5.36         7.24     0.36       270      770      1040
Vin Phu             0        160        483     4,193      4,836        0.39     3.38         3.77  not reli      145    1,257      1402
Thanh Hoa           0        618      1,588     8,962    11,168         0.75     4.21         4.96  not reli      181    1,021      1202
Nghe An             0        603      2,220    13,558    16,381         1.39     8.48         9.87  not reli      186    1,137      1323
Ha Tinh             0        283        838     4,933      6,054        1.01     5.92         6.93  not reli      174    1,024      1198
Binh Thuan          0        746      1,219     6,027      7,992        2.64    13.07        15.72     0.29       233    1,154      1388
Kon Tum             0        549      1,456     7,930      9,934        2.93    15.99       18.92      0.27        53      291       344
Dac Lac             0      4,370      5,348    10,082    19,800         6.74    12.71       19.46  not reli       330      622       952
Ben Tre             0        388        589     1,270      2,247        1.33     2.87         4.21     0.42       632    1,362      1993
Soc Trang           0        266        548     2,293      3,107        1.20     5.04         6.24  not reli      371    1,553      1924
Tra Vinh            0        238        619     1,513      2,369        1.98     4.85         6.83     0.32       641    1,568      2210
Minh Hai            0        396      1,322     5,971      7,689        2.13     9.63        11.76     0.36       390    1,761      2150
tal Proj.           0      9,103    19,655   102,342   131,100          1.77     9.24        11.01     0.44       217    1,129      1345
O D
S X
o
4h



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Transport Project
Road Network Analysis
Characteristic of 1 Km of District Road (adjust for reliable date)
-Area of Influence (Km2)-                -------population--------
Direct   Indirect Total                  Direct   Indirect Total
Km2       Km2        Km2                Number
Hagiang         2.41      16.05      18.46                 128         853      981
Lao Cai         2.80      28.56      31.36                 149      1,519      1668
Lai Chau
Bac Thai        1.88       5.36       7.24                 258         735      993
Vin Phu
Thanh Hoa
Nghe An
Ha Tinh
Binh Thuan      2.64      13.07      15.72                 227      1,124      1352
Kon Tum         2.93      15.99      18.92                  59         322      381
Dac Lac
Ben Tre         1.33       2.87       4.21                 621      1,339      1960
Soc Trang
Tra Vinh        1.98       4.85       6.83                 629      1,537      2166
Minh Hai        2.13       9.63      11.76                 381      1,722      2104
Average         2.27      12.05      14.31                 307        1144     1450
Minimum         1.33       2.87       4.21                  59         322      381
Maximum         2.93      28.56      31.36                 629        1722     2166
Stand Dev       0.50       7.84       8.26                 205        447       595
Average      Minh Hai Binh Thuan Binh Thuan           Minh Hai Binh Thuan Binh Thuan
UQ :J
oQ n
em 
-.h
ro
-C



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Transport Project
Economic Cost Benefit Analysis
Base Case Senario for Spot Improvement of District Road                                             Production increase
ssumption:                                                         Benefits                            (%)   US$/year
Area of direct Influ         227  ha
proportion cultivabl       0.333                                  production increase
Cultivated area               76  ha                              year 1                                  0         0
yield                        3.5  ton/ha                          year 2                               0.01       530
selling cost                 0.2  US$/kg                          year 3                               0.02      1059
Value of production        52967  US$                             year 4                               0.03      1589
population                   307                                  year 5                               0.04      2119
production/capita            173  US$                             year6 tO 11                          0.05      2648
Invest cost for spot       -7200  US$/km
routine maintenance         -137  US$/km                          reduction of loses                   0.02      1059
-------- Base Case---------  ------------------ ----------------------Sensitivity Analysis---------------------
cost increase to $15000/km    cost increase:$15000/km           cost increase: $20000/km
Year                                                                       benefit reduce by 25%                      1
Cost    Benefits    Flow   Cost         Benefits      flow    Cost       Benefits  Flow       Cost     Benefits   flow
1       -7200           0     -7200    -15000           0     -15000   -15000            0   -15000   -20000          0   -20000
2        -137       1589       1452       -137      1589        1452      -137      1191.8    1,055      -137      1589     1452
3        -137       2119       1982       -137      2119        1982      -137      1589.0    1,452      -137      2119     1982
4        -137       2648       2511       -137      2648        2511      -137      1986.3    1,849      -137      2648     2511
5        -137       3178       3041       -137      3178        3041      -137      2383.5    2,247      -137      3178     3041
6        -137       3708       3571       -137      3708        3571      -137      2780.8    2,644      -137      3708     3571
7        -137       3708       3571       -137      3708        3571      -137      2780.8    2,644      -137      3708     3571
8        -137       3708       3571       -137      3708        3571      -137      2780.8    2,644      -137      3708     3571
9        -137       3708       3571       -137      3708        3571      -137      2780.8    2,644      -137      3708     3571
10        -137        3708      3571       -137      3708        3571      -137      2780.8    2,644      -137      3708     3571
11        -137       3708       3571       -137      3708        3571      -137      2780.8    2,644      -137      3708     3571
NPV |12 %)                             7791                              827                          -2901                        -3637
IRR                                 31.485                           13.282                           7.115                       7.417



MAP SECTION






CHINA
MYANfAR     &K
->    *,J   HoD~ng    8   coo Bon~                 CHINA
REULC@2 RJCPOICS.  2                                                                                          Sonff Chi
VIEt.n  \  *THITLANANL C  IVhP
20'Bih *                                                   RURA  TROANSP6OaRGon
VIEMOCRATI                                                          20      P hIIIRIROJECT PRVNE            I e LaiCh
0 V   Clt  PROVINCE CAPITARIES        10 LGolCof o
>    \ t<AuQns  _  _  I~~~~~~~NATIONALTAIONALS BONARE                 ViQunh Phu
VIENTIANE                                    A                      RALRAD                         12 Yen Bac
RIVERS \Q                      C4Ho Bon
PROVINCE BOUNDARIS             9  BPo ThaiN
1 0Lan Chon
22                     POE   PROVI                    12 HSo BLa
t   %         u  aONong                             ~~~~~~~~~~18 3Hai Hura
a  PROVINCE CAPITALS14 La CI-a
NATIONAL CAPITALS       4 VHih Phuri
56 Thai BnhQot
67 Hac Biang
THAILAND                                                                                          19 .  Nenh Binh
20 Chanh Bon
J        k 9   11       9S                     ~~~~~~~~21  Nghe An
_______  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES            22  Ha Tinh
23 Quong Binh
n                   INTERNATIONA  BOUNDARI       24 Quang Tri
12  Thuo aThienHue
>-_,_._ ._\>/go,J 9, @ jg 9~~~~~~~~~26  2 QurJng Nam Dai Naiig
17 3Q uang Na
28  Kon Tum
YNh    1 29 Gi o Lai
930 Birh Dinh
20 Khanh Hoa
. \ \ < r \> 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  Pghu eA
|  CA2BODIA                                                              4 uLang Dong
25 Tiho ThienHu
Quang36  SongDBe
CD                                                                                   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 QTon Nin i
1-0                                          ( aHt    \J  e1  / 7C/                 jDoln$;                   38 Dong NTr
C-D                                                                                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 Ginh Thui
cn           \                          '4           %,J       it 36 /  t           S    <   35tf                 30 Bo Rih-Vutig Tau
PHNOM PENH                                                      4 JHo~~~~~~~~~~~~3  Phu Y ien
38) _, PHNOM PENH ) 9(, t;               42  Long An
434 Laen Diong
44-)                                     Th,   <   IjS  TTh      44 Dong Thap
g \ N Coo..,'  T..        s       i      W              4      3 45 An Giang Be
_My58Lt Thv                                             3 South Ch ina 46 Kien Giong
e )\,9  Sea   43  Can TNho
E  Thi.r  hr/stwnpufKrred      Lothw           c                             ~                            3 48 Vinh Long
by f r Th. &rld fbnk dI.ff        ,/       4 7r - ~' \( 50                                                49  Ben Tre
d thrsortdishzrfh   |   46   >\51                                   4150 Tra Vinh
2 . I Group.   Th. Y&dd B|.k       T       i  f                                                           41   5 nC TrAng
on th-                                             0   52   O 50   1 0   150   200   2    54   inh Hai
_ porl ef Th. 1dW fbn Gou,o,- I           I                                 II4   DaT
<  onrndgrnantonXf^ol   ^  u  /  / ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       4  Anion
Y ij~f - thLoh                           /             B                  Sut  Cin            4  KenGin
-Z.d   S   of  on7 fadforr rsr MT w4   T 7 ..y  C.                           KILOMETERS                      Cn
t -h =zIp"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8VnhLn
3   .of o of uchf  Wo4 Bookllr  
,of1. WodBo  ro.                                             I        LnI 






I



IMAGING
Report No:        1553 7 VN
Type: SAR



