Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23839
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29290)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.8 MILLION
(US$55.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR A
RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
June 26, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit   Vietnamese Dong
VND 1.00 =   US$ 0.0001
US$ 1.00 =   VND 15,078
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DFID                Department for International Development (U.K)
GOV                 Government of Vietnam
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
PDOT                Provincial Department of Transport
PID1                Project Implementation Division No. 1
PMU18               Project Management Unit - 18
PPMU                Provincial Project Management Unit
RTP-1               Rural Transport Project
RTP-2               Rural Transport II Project
RTSS                Rural Transport Strategy Study
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SOE                 State Owned Enterprise
VND                 Vietnamese Dong
Vice President:  Jamil-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Director:  Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:    Sally L. Burningham



VIETNAM
RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. AssesSment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                13
9. Partner Comments                                                               14
10. Additional Information                                                        31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              62
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              64
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 65
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             66
Map: IBRD 27315






Project ID. P039021                                      Project Name: RURAL TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Sally L. Burningham                         TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       IReport Date: June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL TRANSPORT                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-29290
Country/Department: VIETNAM                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/18/1995                             Effective. 04/11/1997        04/11/1997
Appraisal:  02/01/1996                               MTR:                       08/22/1999
Approval:  12/23/1996                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Socialist Republic of Vietnam/Ministry of Transport
Other Partners:  No other partners
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Russel Cheetiam
Country Manager:     Andrew D. Steer                           Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                        Jeffery Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:  Sally L. Burningham                       Supee Teravaninthorn
ICR Primary Author:  Sally L. Bumingham
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original overall development objectives of the project as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report No.
15537-VN of September 24, 1996 were to:
a. improve and upgrade access to niral communities and link them to the district and provincial
road networks;
b. develop local capacity to improve the level of service of low-volume roads and to maintain



them on a sustainable basis; and
c. encourage the development of local contracting industry.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original overall development objectives were not revised during project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The US$ 60.9 million project (IDA US$55.0 million) consisted of three original components namely,
i. Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance in an amount of US$ 59.2 million;
ii. Institutional Strengthening and training in an amount of US$ 1.2 million; and
iii. A study of issues relating to rural transport development in an amount of US$ 0.5 million.
The Government of Vietnam selected 15 out of a total of 61 provinces in Vietnam to be the beneficiaries of
the project. The selection was based on poverty criteria developed with the World Bank.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised during the project implementation. An amendment to the project
was made on January 06, 1998 to reflect the split of 3 original provinces: Bac Thai (Bac Can and Thai
Nguyen), Vinh Phu (Vinh Phuc and Phu Tho), and Minh Hai (Bac Lieu and Ca Mau). The total number of
project provinces is now 18 as listed: Bac Can; Bac Lieu; Ben Tre; Ca Mau; Binh Thuan; Dak Lak; Kon
Tum; Ha Giang; Ha Tinh; Lai Chau; Lao Cai; Nghe An; Phu Tho; Soc Trang; Thai Nguyen; Thanh Hoa;
Tra Vinh; and Vinh Phuc.
The final project cost was US$ 56.6 million. The IDA amount was US$ 50.6 million equivalent due to
devaluation of the SDR 37.8 million.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project has not been subject to review by the World Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review
and therefore no formal process for reviewing project Quality at Entry (QEAj was available to the project
team. The ICR assessment of the project's QEA is satisfactory. The project was quick to become effective
i.e. four months from World Bank Board approval to effectiveness in April 1997 and implementation
started on schedule and disbursed as estimated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is considered Satisfactory in achieving its overall development objectives, specifically:
i. The project satisfactorily achieved its objective to improve and upgrade access to rural communities
and link them to the district and provincial road networks. 4,403 km versus a target of 5,000 km of
roads and bridges were rehabilitated in 18 provinces. These roads have served to provide access for
many communities. At the time of project appraisal it was difficult to make an assessment of the
overall scope of need for access roads in Vietnam since such data was not available. The project team
continues to have dialogue with the Ministry of Transport (MoT) on the overall need for basic
all-weather access. More recently, the Ministry of Transport (MoT) report on Rural Transport Serving
Poverty Reduction and Growth, Version 2002 indicates that there are still 350 communes without any
Basic Access Roads. Some of these communities are very remote and the cost of providing access
prohibitive. Rather, the follow-on Rural Transport II project has focussed on rehabilitation of roads to
communes which do have roads but whose condition is such that they do not provide Basic Access.
-2 -



There are about 600 such communes. The focus is on road rehabilitation to achieve Basic Access
rather than new construction or the upgrading of fewer select roads to high standards.
ii. The project satisfactorily achieved its objective to develop local capacity to improve the level of service
of low-volume roads and to maintain them on a sustainable basis. The project was successfully
implemented by the 18 Provincial Departments of Transport (PDOTs), which benefitted from the
capacity building activities under this project. These PDOTs are the deconcentrated units of the central
Ministry of Transport, who also have a close working relationship with the Provincial Peoples
Commnittees.
iii. The project satisfactorily achieved its objective to encourage the development of the local contracting
industry. The project was implemented at the provincial level thus localizing the procurement
functions and used relatively small value national competitively bid contracts. This has encouraged
development of the iocal contracting industry. The average fength of road rehabilitation contract was
4.7 km with average value of about VND 1.5 billion (approximately US$100,000 equivalent). While
initially there were difficulties in understanding the bidding procedures and requirements, over time
these difficulties were ironed out as both the implementing Provincial Departments of Transport
(PDOTs) and the local contracting industry became more familiar with the procedures. In total, over a
five year implementation period, 809 rehabilitation contracts and 210 maintenance contracts were
awarded to and implemented by the local contracting industry - on time and within budget - itself a
remarkable achievement. One of the objectives in the parcelling of the packages was to create an
enabling environment for private contractors to bid competitively in a market dominated by the State
Owned Enterprises. Despite initial skepticism by the Government of Vietnam about the participation of
private contractors, there seemed to be no adverse impacts on the quality of work. The share of private
contractors was about 30 percent throughout the project (although this had increased to 48 percent in
the final year, for reasons discussed below).
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project is considered to have substantial achievements in sector policies, physical and institutional
outputs, poverty reduction, private sector development and public sector management. There were no
macro-economic or financial objectives. The Project consisted of the following parts, to achieve the project
objectives:
Part A: Rural Access Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$ 59.2 million originally; US$ 56.37
million actual)
1.     Rehabilitation and improvement of about 5,000 kilometers of roads and bridges in 18 selected
provinces, of which 3,500 kilometers (70 percent) of rural district roads and about 1,500 kilometers (30
percent) of communal roads.
A total of US$ 48.503 million was spent on civil works rehabilitation contracts, and US$ 1.03 million on
technical advisory and supervision of works services. A total of 4,403 km of roads were rehabilitated (of
which 4,061 km were rural district roads and 342 km were communal roads) and 9,694 m of bridges were
implemented. The average unit cost of roads rehabilitation was US$ 11,016 per km: Original expected cost
per km varied from US$ 4,000/km to US$ 20,000/km with an average of US$ 7,000/km to US$
10,000/kcm, including the cost of preparing project engineering designs (detailed design works were
undertaken by local consultants funded by the Government of Vietnam). Original expected cost of
engineering work: (survey and design) at the provincial level was US$100 per kilometer of road, including
- 3-



field visits and administrative costs. The project was designed on the basis of spot improvement with a unit
cost of US$ 7,000/kmn- US$ 10,000/kmn. However the Government did not like the quality of works
completed and preferred to undertake full rehabilitation instead of spot improvement. Although the unit cost
remained below the threshold of US $15,000 /km (thereafter a cost-benefit analysis was required), the costs
exceeded the original estimates. Spot improvement requires a well functioning complementary routine
maintenance system, which is absent or often weak at the subnational level in Vietnam.
Table 4.2 Allocation to Rehabilitation Civil Works
Planned                            Actual
5,000 km                           4,403 km
US$ 59.2 million                   US$ 48.508 million
varied from US$ 4,000/1cm to US$   Average for the project of US$11,016/km ranging from
20,000/1km with an average of US$  US$8,305/km in the first year or 1998, US$11,108 in the
7,000/km to US$ 10,000/1cm         second year, US$12,871 in the third year, and to
I US$13,785 in fourth year.
The Government and the recipient provinces opted for higher technical standards including bitumen surface
but did not pay adequate attention to overall project design standards. For instance, drainage remained
inadequate in many instances. While the technical specifications for the project were appraised and found
reasonable, their,application could have been improved as documented by the World Bank in many
aide-memoires:
* The aide-memoire of May 1998 indicated that many provinces not only spent more than half the cost
on re-gravelling, but also chose to use the allowed maximum unit cost per km (such as Ha Tinh
province). Furthermore, many provinces had spent little on drainage systems and other permanent
structures. Such an approach combined with weak maintenance arrangements could result in rapid
deterioration of roads, especially in those provinces with weak maintenance capacity, thus affecting the
economic benefit of these investments.
* The aide-memoire of January 18-31, 1999 included the report of the project advisor of the PMU18
which highlighted the results of field inspections and interviews of local communities. Of particular
concern was part of road link 090400006, Chu Pao to Binh Thuan, Krong Bak District. Although the
cost of the contract is approximately US$14,000 per km, the vast majority of the cost has gone into
road pavement rather than drainage. In fact, the road section has steep grades and the unlined side
drains have already been badly eroded. In this case close attention should have been paid at the design
stage to include lined side drains and a less expensive pavement layer to meet the criteria of the project.
Recent World Bank field visits also noted the inadequacy of drainage structure due to the exclusion of the
drainage in the detailed design and bill of quantities.
2.     Development of a road maintenance management program. (US$ 0.946 million equivalent actual)
The Credit allocated finance for a one year period of maintenance on rehabilitated roads. This was done on
3,444 Iam of roads at a cost of US$ 0.946 million equivalent approximately US$ 275 per km, an expected
average cost for routine maintenance. The works were contracted out in 210 contracts averaging US$4,500
equivalent each or 16.4 km each.
-4 -



3.     Resettlement and Rehabilitation of the Affected Persons under Part A. 1 of the Project. (US$
35,402 equivalent actual)
Due to the nature of the project, there was no resettlement in terms of relocating families, rather there was
land acquisition for the roads right-of-way i.e. a portion of personal land holdings was required. The total
land acquisition expenditure: VND 531,022,392 (US$ 35,402 approx) made up of compensation paid to
Project Affected Persons: VND 423,983,742 (US$ 28,266 approx); Operation cost: VND 89,047,650
(US$ 5,937 approx). This was paid by Government counterpart funds to the 494 affected households, with
a total affected area of 53,508 m or about 108 m2 per household, (about US$57 to each household, or US$
0.53 per mi). In the Borrower comments in Section 9 of this ICR report, there is a report on the land
acquisition aspects. The land acquisition was monitored by a local institute.
Part B. Institutional Strengthening (US$ 1.2 million originally; US$ 0.24 million actual)
1. Strengthening of the capacity of the Borrower's central and provincial level road transport
departments and agencies for managing and implementing construction and maintenance of rural roads,
including Ministry of Transport's capacity to supervise, monitor and evaluate Provincial Department of
Transport's (PDOTs) road construction and maintenance activities, and PDOT's planning, budgeting
and management of road construction and maintenance activities, through the provision of staff training,
development of a computerized rural roads information system, and development of technical and
performance criteria and standards for construction and maintenance of rural roads.
A project Implementation Advisor was provided under the project to the implementing agency under a
contract valued at US$1.018 million. Training on maintenance was provided, a GIS was developed in four
target provinces, and a monitoring and financial management system and related training was provided. A
full list of the technical assistance services provided under this component are listed in Annex 2.
2. Strengthening of the capacity of domestic road contractors to carry out small contract works through
the provision of training, inter alia, in project management, cost accounting and contract bidding.
Training for contractors on supervision and project management was included in the training program for
Government staff in the PDOTs undertaken by the Center for Research, Consulting and Experimental
Construction from the Hanoi Transport University in an amount of US$ 47,146.
Part C. Study (US$ 0.5 million originally; US$ 0 actual - funded separately under a bilateral grant of
£808,000)
Originally, the Staff Appraisal Report called for the undertaking of a rural transport infrastructure
investment study to identify issues related to demand and investment and to develop guidelines for future
investments in the sector. The Government did not however wish to fund this from the Credit although they
agreed to keep it in with the provision that the World Bank assist them in finding grant funding sources for
the study. Subsequently, the Rural Transport Strategy Study (RTSS) was undertaken with funding from
the United Kingdom's Department For International Development (DFID) who provided the £808,000 in a
Bilateral Grant to the Government of Vietnam. The final report was completed in August 2000 and the
RTSS has subsequently been adopted by Government and now forms an important basis for policy making
in the rural road sector.
Included at the appraisal stage of the project was also a Poverty Assessment Study - again the Government
- 5 -



did not want to fund this from the Credit and it was not included in the Credit. The World Bank then
undertook this work with Canadian Trust funds and DFID grants. The study is ongoing and its preliminary
results are discussed below in Section 4.3 of this report.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Originally the expected economic rate of return was 32.5 percent and the final estimated economic rate of
return is 12.7 percent.
Table 4.3 Economic rate of return indicators
Original expected            Final actual
Economic rate of return      32.5 percent                 12.7 percent
Average rehabilitation costs  US$7,200 /km                US$10,789
Average routine maintenance  US$ 137/kcm                  US$275/km
costs
Price of paddy               US$ 0.2 per kg or VND 2,000  US$ 0.13 per kg or VND 1950
(exchange rate 11,018)       (exchange rate 15,000)
Yield of paddy, ton per hectare  3.5 ton per hectare      3.5 to 4.1 ton per hectare
The initial justification for the project was based on the producer surplus method assuming that the benefits
from improved roads and lower transport costs would contribute to a gradual increase in paddy production
of 1 percent per year. The method also assumed that in the "with project" scenario there would be a
reduction in losses in the transport of agricultural produce of 2 percent. At the time of appraisal in 1996
this method was giving an EIRR of 32.5 percent in the base case assuming average road investment costs
of US$7,200 per km, routine maintenance costs of US$137 per km, the price of paddy of US$ 0.2 per kg
or VND 2,000 (exchange rate 11,018) and a yield of 3.5 ton per hectare. The sensitivity analysis revealed
that the roads would remain economically viable if investment costs increased to US$15,000 per km.
At completion in 2002, an economic evaluation was undertaken for the rural roads following as closely as
possible the original appraisal procedures. On that basis the re-estimated EIRR fell to 12.7 percent. The
lower than expected EIRR is because of lower than expected paddy revenues and higher than expected
rehabilitation and routine maintenance costs. The full cost benefit analysis at appraisal and the ex-post
economic analysis are included below.
Lower paddy revenues were a result of lower prices for paddy, in 2002 the paddy price had fallen to US$
0.13 per kg or VND 1950 (exchange rate 15,000) but the yield increased from 3.5 to 4.1 ton per hectare
with the overall effect that incomes fell by 24 percent. These changes in yield and price resulted from
various policy reform measures which took place between 1999 and 2001 resulting in liberalization of
agricultural markets. The policy reform was principally related to the easing of restrictions on export
quotas to non-state farms and the removal of quantitative import restrictions on items such as fertilizer.
Higher than forecast average rehabilitation costs of US$10,789 per km and higher routine maintenance
costs of US$275 per km also pushed down the EIRR. Rehabilitation costs were higher because of a
reluctance by the Provincial Departments of Transport to adopt the spot improvement approach to creating
basic vehicle access which was originally proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report. Throughout the project
there was a tendency to push for higher, and therefore more expensive, standards as a way of reducing the
maintenance burden. However, the reality is that there is no such thing as a maintenance free road and the
- 6 -



higher design standards also pushed up the routine maintenance costs. Given this situation the current
rehabilitation cost threshold of US$15,000 per Ian would appear to be too high if there is to be an economic
case.
This analysis tells us very little about the likely economic viability of these types of road because we are
unable to distinguish the actual impacts from the road from macro economic forces at play. For this reason
intemational best practice today would recommend use of the consumer surplus approach which is focused
much more on benefits to traffic, whether motorized or non-motorised, and on the social benefits associated
with improved access to essential services such as schools and health centers. The consumer surplus
approach is also able to capture the benefits from creating year round access which is a substantial source
of both economic and social benefits and has been a key component of this project. The use of the producer
surplus for this project was however necessary since Govermnent does not collect traffic counts.
For future projects of this type it is important that traffic count data is collected on a regular basis. This
should include motorized and non-motorised traffic (including pedestrians), seasonal variations in traffic
flow and basic tariff information for goods and passengers. This information is not only important for
monitoring and evaluation purposes but also for planning future maintenance priorities. Although the
Govermnent does not collect any traffic counts on these roads at the moment the individual provincial
reports provided as part of the ICR report preparation (and annexed) show that in fact there were some
provinces undertaking traffic counts; for example, Bac Kan province shows increases in traffic on Sau Hai
to Nong Thuong road from 250 motorcycles to 400 motorcycles per day; on the 15 km Phung Vien -Bang
Phuc road there was an increase from 0 trucks to 23; and from 8 motorcycles to 80.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
1.     Strengthening of Borrower's central and provincial level road transport departments and
agencies for managing and implementing construction and maintenance of rural roads. The Ministry of
Transport through its Provincial Department of Transport's (PDOTs) managed 809 rehabilitation contracts
and 210 maintenance contracts under this project, implemented in 18 provinces, and on project schedule.
This in itself is a remarkable achievement. The capacity was developed through training, various types of
assistance and gaining familiarity with procurement procedures.
2.     Strengthening of domestic road contractors to carry out small contract works. The capacity of
the domestic road contractors has certainly been strengthened under the project. Initially the Ministry had
concerns about the contracting out of the works. The domestic contractors however showed themselves
throughout the project to be capable of implementing such works. One aspect of this issue is the
participation of domestic private contractors versus the State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) which are
prevalent in Vietnam. While training is an important aspect in strengthening the capacity of the local road
contractors, including both private and State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), it would also have been valuable
to focus on institutional constraints restricting the development of the private sector industry. The World
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) report of July 20, 2001 indicates that the World Bank
did not take sufficient opportunity to focus on the development of the private sector. The participation of
the private sector in contracts was about 30 percent throughout the project. The project though did not
show any discrimination against private contractors in the bidding process - there were private contractors
taking part in the bidding and the proportion of private contractors winning the bids exceeded those SOEs
winning bids. For example, in Dak Lak province 40 percent of those buying bidding documents were
- 7 -



private contractors and 53 percent of the bids were won by such private contractors. There seem to be
simply fewer private contractors around than there are SOEs. Structural impediments may remain to the
development of the private sector. For example, the bidding post-qualification criteria requires a certain
amount of experience in road works. However, newly emerging private sector companies cannot get access
to the project to develop this experience - a Catch 22. The timing indicates that there is possibly a link
between the World Bank's January 2001 enforcement of an existing procurement rule that no dependant
parties are eligible for participation in bidding and an increase in the percentage participation of the private
sector to 48 percent in the final year of the project. From January 2001 State Owned Enterprises under the
Ministry of Transport and the project Provincial Governments were no longer eligible. The participation of
the private sector in the ongoing Second Rural Transport Project was reported at 61 percent as of May
2002.
The following tables detail the participation of private contractors vs SOE contractors, by value of work,
over the project years. This also indicates that the value of rehabilitation work awarded to private
contractors was about 30 percent during the course of the project. The value of awarded maintenance work
increased from 40 percent in the first year to 60 percent in the third year. However, the total value of
maintenance work was very small compared to rehabilitation work.
Constructive steps will need to be taken to encourage the participation of small scale contractors and
community groups. There remains structural handicaps preventing participation by these groups. For
example, most community groups do not have a bank account, so they cannot be paid under the contract
system.
Table 4.5.1 Rehabilitation Roads and Bridge Contracts
Total     Contracts to  Amount     Contracts to  Amount   % Contracts to
Program Year Rehabilitation State Owned (VND Billion)  Private  (VND Billion)  Private
Contracts   Enterprises             Contractors              Contractors
lst- 1998      192         137        107.799        55        38.023         29
2nd -1999      253          188       159.939        65         60.858        26
3rd- 2000      264          188       158.332        76         71.250        29
4th - 2001     100          52         44.239        48         36.777        48
Total        809          565       470.309       244        206.911        30
Table 4.5.2 Road Maintenance Contracts
Total     Contracts to  Amount     Contracts to  Amount   % Contracts to
Program Years Maintenance  State Owned (VND Billion)  Private  (VND Billion)  Private
Contracts   Enterprises              Contractors             Contractors
lst- 1998      78           46          3.34         32          2.2          41
2nd -1999       67          30          1.89         40          3.2          60
3rd - 2000      60          14          0.85         47          2.9          78
4th - 2001      5            0          0.0           5          0.16         100
Total        210          90          6.08         124         8.46         59
- 8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic justification of the investments for the project was based on an expected increases in the rice
yield per hectare and the price of paddy - this is out of the control of the irnplementing agency.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The following outlines the risks predicted at the time of project appraisal (as defined in the Staff Appraisal
Report, September 24, 1996) as items which were generally subject to Government control:
(i) Vietnam's lack of experience with implementation of externallyfiunded projects and competitive
bidding, which might delay contractingfor and execution ofprojects works.
This project was one of the first set of projects in Vietnam after the World Bank resumed its lending
program. The use of contracting out and competitive bidding was not the norm in Vietnam. There were
initial problems due to the lack of familiarity with the procurement procedures required for the project.
Once the implementing agency was trained and sufficient information on the projects bidding requirements
had been disseminated, the procurement processing and implementation proceeded on time and within
budget. Specific efforts were made to ensure efficient payment to the numerous small contractors and
results were achieved with payment starting with an average of 41 days and reduced to 26 days within the
maximum required of 30 days. The risk that this factor posed to the project is considered modest.
(ii) private contractors' lack of experience with bidding procedures and works execution.
There was no difference between the abilities of the private sector contractors versus those of the State
Owned Enterprise contractors and initial lack of experience for both was ironed out in project
implementation. Initially, the Ministry of Transport had been very hesitant on the issue of private
contractor participation in the project. However, with the implementation experience the Ministry accepted
the use of private contractors. Interestingly however they see the use of private contractors as a way to
ensure funds do not go to foreign private companies. In contrast, we see the issue as private contractors -
whether domestic or international - as being more efficient than State Owned Enterprises. It is unlikely that
a project such as RTP-1 would have attracted any foreign contractors. The risk that this factor posed to the
project is considered modest.
(iii) failure to provide adequate routine maintenance, because of the absence ofgood standard
maintenance procedure and lack of funds, which would result in early deterioration of the rehabilitated
roads.
The lack of adequate maintenance is largely an institutional problem which pervades the country. Being in
an early phase of development, Government focus has been on rehabilitation of infrastructure. The
difficulty is particularly exacerbated for local roads such as those addressed under this project since the
works are funded and irnplemented by the Ministry of Transport and the roads are subsequently "handed
over" to the "communities" for upkeep and maintenance. In other words, maintenance responsibility is
decentralized at the subnational levels to the provinces or districts. For all roads other than national roads,
a maintenance assessment study has indicated that while the provincial governments do have funds for road
maintenance they generally do not adequately allocate for maintenance and have difficulty setting up the
institutional mechanism for implementing the maintenance. The risk that this factor poses to the project is
considered substantial.
-9-



(iv) The tight implementation schedule expected by the Government - to complete the project in three
years - might not be fulfilled.
The project became effective on April 11, 1997 and was completed on the original closing date of
December 30, 2001. It was implemented in almost five years as planned in the Staff Appraisal Report,
however not within the three years proposed by Government. The implementation schedule of five years
and the related disbursement is impressive in the Vietnam portfolio of World Bank assisted projects which
has an overall portfolio disbursement ratio averaging 12 percent. The risk that this factor posed to the
project is considered negligible.
Disbursements of Rural Transport Project vs overall World Bank portfolio in Vietnam
World Bank Financial Year           1997   1998    1999   2000   2001    2002   Total
SDR Disbursements for RTP-1         2.51   4.33    8.3    10.52  9.38    2.75   37.8
% Disbursements for RTP-1           7%     11%    22%     28%    25%     7%     100%
% Disbursements for Vietnam Portfolio  7%  10%     14%    11%     12%    15%    12%
(v) In addition to the items identified at appraisal as above, there also emerged a problem with timely
provision of counterpart funding.
The difficulties with counterpart funding were apparent although not so severe as to seriously impact the
implementation of the project. Payment to Project Affected Persons was also impacted by timeliness of
counterpart funds.The risk that this factor posed to the project is considered low or negligible.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) Maintenance. While the World Bank missions continuously raised the need for maintenance on the
project and other roads, it is rather difficult to argue whether the maintenance issue is actually subject to
the implementing agencies control as discussed above. While maintenance funding was included in the
RTP-1 project, for the Rural Transport II project funding for maintenance was excluded since two
independent studies showed that the Provincial Authorities in fact had sufficient funds for maintenance.
However while the Ministry of Transport (MOT) has now moved in the follow on Rural Transport II
project to require recipient provincial governments to sign "maintenance agreements", maintenance is still
not happening. The situation could worsen on Rural Transport II and affect its sustainability. Government
sees the solution to the maintenance problems in bitumenising all the roads, implying they don't need
maintenance. For example, Dak Lak province indicates in its Implementation Completion Report that after
the handover, due to lack of money, the road maintenance has not been properly and regularly carried out
and that some roads constructed in the first two years have deteriorated without prompt maintenance and
repair. At the same time they indicate that they did manage to find funds to upgrade 71 kilometers of road
to asphalt concrete. Thus there is really no shortage of money locally rather an unwillingness to spend it on
maintenance. The risk that this factor poses to the project is considered substantial.
(ii) Technical standards. The project implementation was going well, disbursements were high, contracts
were processed and implementation proceeded rather quickly and was one of the best performing projects in
the World Bank's portfolio. This may be related to the fact that in the view of the World Bank there was
not enough work done on the drainage and other permanent structures on the roads which are normally
more time consuming. Rather most of the rehabilitation works were earth work and regravelling which are
-10-



quickly and easily implemented. It has proved rather difficult to get the implementing agency to address the
issue of drainage structures, which are adequately shown in the technical guidelines however not
implemented. The risk that this factor poses to the project is considered modest.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project cost was US$60.9 million of which the IDA amount was US$55.0 million equivalent
(SDR 37.8 million). The final overall project cost was US$ 56.6 million or VND 624 billion. Due to
exchange rate fluctuations with the SDR, the IDA amount was reduced to US$50.6 million equivalent.
The original study proposed under the project - the Rural Transport Investment Strategy Study - was
funded by DFID and not the project with the result that the original funds allocated for the study (US$ 0.5
million) were transferred to the Civil Works category.
Compared to the planned 5,000 kilometers of road, 4,403 kilometers of road were rehabilitated, despite
US$ 500,000 in additional funds. A recalculation of funds became necessary on August 7, 2001 after the
World Bank mission had highlighted that they were in danger of overnmning the credit and needed to
manage the control function between accounting and the procurement function carefully.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered Likely. The reasons for this assessment are that it is clear that Government and
the Ministry of Transport is committed to the sector as demonstrated by the ongoing follow-on Rural
Transport II project and discussions of a proposed Rural Transport Im project. The Ministry of Transport
has also dedicated a lot of time and effort to take measures to address issues in the sector - dialogue on
issues of concern as outlined in this ICR are ongoing with the Ministry at the highest level. The
Government recognizes the issue of maintenance and is working actively to find a solution. With regard to
technical standards, while still a difficult issue, the Ministry and the World Bank have agreed to actively
study the issue and have agreed to pilots of alternative technical designs in provinces with particular
environmental problems. There is a concem with regard to the technical assistance and the degree to which
the results of technical assistance have been sustainable. Specifically, during the May 1998 World Bank
mission it was highlighted that although accurate accounting records were kept, financial information was
not used to track progress. Subsequently, efforts were made to improve this using a computerized system.
However, as noted in the April 2001 World Bank mission, a concem for project cost ovemun due to the
limited coordination between the accounting function and the engineering implementation function in
PMU18 was reported. A GIS-Rural Road Information System was implemented at the conclusion of the
technical services, however subsequent World Bank missions found no evidence of the impact of the
system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was the first IDA supported operation to support rural infrastructure in Vietnam and only the
second project in the transport sector, the first being the Highway Rehabilitation project which became
effective in June 1994. There was thus a need to focus carefully on the procurement aspects and the
resettlement aspects, both of which were new procedures to the Government of Vietnam. The project was
mostly focussed on the need for rapid rehabilitation of infrastructure in Vietnam after the resumption of
IDA lending. Thus there was less of a focus on getting the rural transport sector issues addressed including
-11 -



the use of the local funds. The transition to regular operations is tied into the "provinces" implementing the
maintenance requirements and as outlined above this is not clear that this will be achieved. The ongoing
sector dialogue under the ongoing Rural Transport II and the proposed Rural Transport m project will
focus broader sector issues.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
World Bank staff performance in lending is considered Satisfactory. The Rural Transport project was
identified in January 10-24, 1995 and appraisal commenced February 29, 1996. The project was approved
by the World Bank Board December 23, 1996 and declared effective April 11, 1997, within four months of
approval. The amount of World Bank administrative budget spent on preparation of the project was US$
311,900 with 100 staff weeks (below the Bank's regional average budget of US$ 350,000). An
accompanying Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant of Yen 50. 4 million
(approximately US$373,006 equivalent) was used for project preparation. This grant was World Bank
executed and included one main consulting contract (the contract was signed October 2, 1995 in an amount
of US$ 251,000), plus US $96,000 allocated for purchase by Government of vehicles and office
equipment, plus funds for training. The project was not subject to a Quality at Entry review by the World
Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
7.2 Supervision:
World Bank staff performance in supervision is considered Satisfactory. The World Bank staff undertook
11 supervision missions - twice a year from project effectiveness in April 1997 to project close on
December 31, 2001 and spent US$374,000 on supervision (an average of US$62,323 per year, around the
Bank's regional average of US$65,000 per year per project). Continuity of staff on the project was
achieved, with the same World Bank Task Team Leader from Board in December 1996 (the Task Team
Leader had been also involved as part of the preparation team) to December 2000, with one change for the
final year of the project.
Where World Bank supervision missions identified issues in application of safeguard and fiduciary
responsibilities, follow up action was effectively taken. Misprocurement was declared on two works
contracts, the first case of misprocurement declared by the World Bank in Vietnam. These cases of
violations of the procurement guidelines were found during the sixth procurement ex-post review which
was done by the World Bank Hanoi office in May 2000. The case involved a misunderstanding of the
procurement guidelines and PMU18 (at the central level) had tried to correct the mistake. Nevertheless, the
outcome was a violation of the World Bank procurement guidelines and the agreed procurement side letter
and misprocurement was declared. The total value of the two contracts was around US$180,000 and the
contracts were declared ineligible for IDA funding. The amount was not however cancelled from the Credit
and was made available for other contracts.
The project was completed in the originally appraised schedule and in terms of disbursements was the best
performing project in the World Bank's Vietnam portfolio.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall World Bank staff performance is considered Satisfactory.
- 12 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government preparation performance is considered Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is considered Satisfactory. The oversight agencies for the project,
namely State Bank, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning and Investment took an active interest in
the project, actively participated in all World Bank mission wrap up meetings and ensured that the
implementing agency, the Ministry of Transport, executed the project in accordance with the agreements
reached with the World Bank.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing Agency (Ministry of Transport through its PMU18) performance is considered Satisfactory.
The PMU18 responded efficiently on all project issues, adhered to the project implementing requirements,
engaged with all World Bank missions, and followed up on issues raised. The Provincial Departments of
Transport of the Ministry successfully executed the procurement and supervision of the project works. The
representatives of the Ministry at the highest level participated in World Bank mission meetings and
actively pursued project specific dialogue as well as sector related dialogue. The Ministry enabled their
implementing units to execute their role in the project by delegating responsibility and providing the needed
resources. The Ministry hosted a stakeholder workshop in January 2002 to discuss the results of the project
and each of the 18 Provincial Departments of Transport submitted its own views on the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory. The Borrower ensured that the project was
executed fully in accordance with the agreements made in the Development Credit Agreement - on time and
within budget.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons were learned from the implementation of this Rural Transport project:
(i) Capacity to implement. The project demonstrates that rural development projects with many small
contracts processed at local levels can be successfully implemented in Vietnam. The provincial departments
of the central Ministry of Transport were able to successfully absorb the requirements of the project and at
the central level the Ministries provided the needed guidance and control. This is an important finding for
the World Bank portfolio, which the recent Country Procurement Assessment Report has highlighted, has
shown a trend towards decentralized execution of small contracts.
(ii) Clear implementing arrangements lead to efficient execution. The project has demonstrated that if the
implementing arrangements and processing requirements are made very explicit in the Operations Manual
and are disseminated adequately at the beginning of project implementation, the implementing parties will
follow closely what is required. Things only went wrong on implementation where items had not be made
sufficiently clear at the outset.
(iii) Technical standards and maintenance. In Vietnam these two issues are inter-linked - the technical
standards should be established first and included in the design and bidding documents and ensured through
site inspections. Upfront efforts should be directed at building ownership of design standards by
Government and beneficiaries. With limited resources, there is always a trade-off between the adoption of
- 13 -



high technical standards and the need to cover more with lower standards and related costs ("spread the
money around"). The Ministry of Transport has indicated that they recognize the importance of expanding
road access for more poor people rather than building a few high quality roads in some provinces.
Moreover its well recognised that undertaking traffic counts and accessing the beneficiary population,
especially the poor population, should be key criteria for targeting road improvement. The Ministry does
recognize the emphasis the World Bank has placed on the economic justification of investments. Despite
this the Provincial Departments of Transport of the Ministry of Transport and Provincial authorities are
pressing for the asphalting of roads - this is both an economic issue and is related to the unwillingness to
undertake maintenance. All PDOTs have indicated that the US$15,000 per lan limit is too low. It should be
clear however that where there is economically justification this limit may be exceeded. It is not clear that
this has been communicated to the provinces. With regard to the maintenance issue, the Provincial
Departments of Transport and the Provincial authorities are pressing for the asphalting of roads - as the
way to avoid maintenance. This approach is not consistent with the view of the World Bank. Moreover
there are cases where asphalted roads are already deteriorating due to lack of maintenance.
(iv) The need to undertake traffic counts. The lack of systematic traffic data collection in Vietnam hampers
the ability to readily monitor the impact of the project. It is unusual in the road sector as most other
countries routinely undertake traffic data collection. The lack of traffic data inhibits prioritization and
identification of necessary interventions on roads. For example it is clear that there are a number of roads
in Vietnam where the traffic levels are high enough to justify paving such roads. However, Government is
paving all roads. This is not cost-effective since funds are then allocated to upgrade roads with low
economic return. Site visits show that there are cases where local roads with little traffic running between
paddy fields are being paved. Though travel mobility is high and increasing rapidly in rural Vietnam
without proper travel data it is difficult to discern what share of the trips are for economic reasons.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following comments of the Government of Vietnam have been incorporated here unedited.
Ministry of Transport              Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Projects Management Unit No. 18   In4ependence- Freedom- Happiness
Ha Noi ...   August 2001
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR
THE RURAL TRANSPORT I PROJECT (RTP1)
Date of submission:
The Borrower: The Government of Vietnam, who is directly respected by the State Bank of Vietnam.
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Transport, who is directly represented by Projects Management Unit No.
18 (PMU18).
Other participating stakeholders: Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), Ministry of Finance
(MOF), Provincial People's Committees (PPCs), Provincial Department of Transport (PDOT), Provincial
Project Management Units (PPMU's), District People's Committee (DPCs), Communal People's
Committees (CPCs) of the Project areas.
- 14 -



1. Project objectives and components:
1.1 Project objectives:
(a)    Improve and upgrade access to rural communities and link them to district and provincial
networks;
(b)    Develop local capacity to improve the level of service of low-volume roads and maintain them.
(c)    Encourage the development of local contractors
1.2 Project Components:
1.2.1 Rural access roads rehabilitation:
-      Rehabilitation and improvement of about 5,000 kilometers of roads and bridges, of which 3,500
kilometers would be district roads and 1,500 kilometers would be communal roads;
Development of an effective road maintenance procedures and practice;
-      Resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the Project.
1.2.2 Institutional Strengthening and training
-      Strengthening the capacity of transport-sector departments and agencies at central and provincial
levels of the Borrower for rural road management, implementation, construction and maintenance,
including institutional strengthening of MOT for supervision, coordination, monitoring and valuation road
of construction and maintenance activities through staff training and developing a computerized rural roads
information system and building implementation progress and technical criteria and rural road construction
and maintenance.
-      Developing the capacity of private rural road maintenance contractors to undertake small-scale
work through training on project management, costing and budgeting, contracting.
1.2.3 Studies:
A rural transport investment strategy study was included in the project to identify issues related demand
and investment in the rural transport sector and to establish guidelines for future investment in this sector.
2. Project objectives and component achievement process:
2.1 Process ofproject objectives achievement:
The first obiective: Improvement and upgrade access to rural communities and link them to the district
and provincial road networks.
According the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) No. 155 -37 VN, it said that there were over 105,000
km of national, provincial district and communal roads; of which 71,914 kn are rural roads (district and
communal roads) accounting for 70%. These roads are almost in poor conditions, improper drainage and
missing bridges.
According to Vietnamese specifications, district roads are links connecting from district capitals to
- 15 -



provincial centers. Communal roads are classified as inter-communal roads linking communal centers to
district roads or other communes; inter-village roads linking between village boundaries.
The project implemented pursued strictly its objectives as to improve and upgrade rural roads including
district and communal roads. Actual outputs were as follows:
- 4067.4 km of district roads
- 341.9 km of communal roads
- 9694.0 m of bridges
The second obiective: developing local capacity to improve the level of service of low-volume roads and
maintain them on a sustainable basis.
The project was implemented in 18 provinces over the country, in such different as mountainous, mid-land,
flat, highland and coastal terrain.
The overall project management was the responsibility of Project Implementation Division No.1 (PD1))
under PMU18 in Hanoi. Project Implementation is the responsibility of provincial project Management
Units (PPMU's) established under respective Provincial Department of Transport (PDOTs). The
development of local capacity was implemented through following activities:
- Training for PPMU's and contractor's staff on various aspects:
+ Simplified Design and Survey
+ Planning and budgeting
+ Project Management
+ Bidding and Bid Evaluation
+ Financial Management
+ Land Acquisition and Resettlement
+ Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (EMDP)
+ Issues related to environmental problems
The PPMU's and contractor's staff training was conducted in three rounds:
- Round 1 conducted in 1997, number of PPMU's and contractor's staff trained was 300,
- Round 2 conducted in 1998, number of PPMU's and contractor's staff trained was 404,
- Round 3: number of PPMU's and contractor's staff trained was 270.
Number of trainees after completing three rounds of training: 1074 people
Mode of training: in round 1, PMU18 directly used their in-house staff to conduct PPMU's and
contractor's staff training in each province; in round 2 and round 3, PMU1 8 hired a training center under
the Hanoi Transport University to conduct provincial training by group of provinces for PPMU's and
contractor's staff on the above-mention aspects.
Training contractors to grasp knowledge of organisation and regulations in bidding and bid price offering.
Overseas study tours: the project organised 2 rounds of study tour programmes for sightseeing and
learning experiences in foreign countries. Round 1 - a study tour programme in Australia was organised to
6 members of PMU1 8 and government agencies involved with project management. Round 2 - a study tour
programme was organsied in Thailand and Malaysia for 64 staff of PMU18, PPMU's, and such agencies
- 16 -



involved with the project management as Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), Ministry of Finance
(MoF) and Ministry of Transport (MOT).
- Improving the level of service of low-volume roads.
The project' road improvement was done in principle of spot improvement method to increase road
accessibility, identifying critical sections/spots of road that caused traffic hindrance and applied low-cost
improvement on those sections/spots by this method, limited investment unit but could bring back
maximum benefit for road users.
This project's investment amount was 37.5 million SDR which was equivalent to 55 million USD at the
time of project commencement in 1997 and 50.6 million USD at the time of project completion in 2001,
and plus a counter-part fund amount of 6 million USD. Combining both foreign and local poitions in VND
at "real payment time" exchange rate, it totaled 624 billion VND, number of project direct beneficiary
people was 8,352,126 people.
However this spot improvement also had disadvantages such as the case: while some road sections/ spots
were rehabilitated and improved in good conditions, other non-improved sections/spots were deteriorated
badly causing quality inconsistency along whole road.
This method can only be suitable when "after-improvement" maintenance procedures be sure to exist and
implemented routinely. If they are not sure to exist and implemented routinely, it is not advisable to apply
this but a more complete (rather than "spot") improvement method.
Road improvement has resulted in fast increase in the number of vehicles especially motorcycles. There
have been special cases where due to overgrowing vehicle volumes, the pavement structure of improved
roads were destructed and damaged.
The Bank required the project to apply the maximum investment cost per km of 15,000 USD. The above
investment cost limit was just suitable for regions and areas with local materials and short haulage
distance, however for regions and areas otherwise were almost found difficult to so apply.
In the course of project implementation, an adjustment was made to the cost limit up to 20,000 USD/ Ikm
applied to the Mekong river delta.
Up to the moment of writing this report, the questions how much the vehicle volume increased? And how to
evaluate the level of service of these improved roads in a quantitative manner are impossible to be
answered, as there have not been any inventories or surveys on this matter.
- Maintenance on a sustainable basis:
The project objectives is to improve and upgrade roads into 4-reason access using unskilled labor based
methods and local materials as much as possible and local people maintained the roads themselves on a
sustainable basis.
This objective has not yet been achieved because after the roads are rehabilitated, the local can not afford
to maintain them; in addition to that, the usage of locally existing materials can not be done in some areas
still counting on imported materials from afar due to absence of materials or existence of bad quality
materials.
- 17 -



The third objective: Encourage the development of local contractors
Many small contract packages are offered in the project, therefore many snall-scale local contractors could
participate. In the whole project, there are 809 contracts with the total bid-winning price of
678,322,615,710 VND of which: number of private contractors participating in 244 contracts with the total
bid-winning price of 208,011,221;656 VND accounting for 30.67%. Number of SOE's contractors 565
contracts with total bid winning price of 470,311,394,054 VND accounting for 69.33 %.
2.2    Achievement ofproject components:
2.2.1 Improve and upgrade access to rural communities:
The project imnproved and upgraded 4067.4 krn of district roads which increased by 1,16 times as originally
planned (3,500 km of district roads).
The project rehabilitated 341krn of communal roads which accounted for nearly 22.8% of originally
planned (1,500 kmn of communal roads) length.
Total length of rehabilitated district and communal roads are 4,409.3 km equal to the originally planned
length.
Total length of bridging work (constructed and repaired) on district and conmmunal roads was 9,694 m.
2.2.2 Development of an effective road maintenance procedure and practice
- The project earmarked a budget of 14,193,437,742VND at the price in June 2001 to fund for 1-year
routine maintenance after the roads was rehabilitated. The output length of roads maintained under this
1-year budget was 3,444.27 kmn. The remaining road length will be improved in the upcoming period.
- The project strengthened capacity of routine maintenance management and implementation for PPMU
district, commune and contractors' staff through various training rounds.
Training was given to 298 people from PPMUs, districts and contractors.
Mode of training: PMUL18 hired a consulting finn, Trading, Tourism and Training Organisation Center, to
conduct provincial training in 4 representative locations of the countries: Hanoi, Nghe An, Nha Trang and
Can Tho.
- Private contractors did also undertake routine maintenance.
+ Number of SOE's contractors: 89 contracts, valuing 6,044,669,840VND
+ Number of private contractors: 120 contracts, valuing 8,148,767,902VND
- Update of the Operational Manual (through a study conducted by the project implementation advisor
team, SMEC consultant) - Chapter 9 - Routine Maintenance. This document can be used for other projects
of the same nature.
- 18 -



2.2.3 Resettlement and rehabilitation ofpeople affected by the project:
Requirements of project components are specified in details in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
No. 2929-VN. Attached to the DCA was the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Compensation, and
Rehabilitation of project affected people. The project has followed stricdy the framework policy agreed
between GOV and the Bank. However, during the implementation, violation to the framework by some
PPMU's, resulting temporary postponement of their contract to address such unconformity as happened in
Soc Trang, DakLak and Binh Thuan.
- Some independent monitoring agencies were selected annually to conduct the following activities:
+ To train PPMU staff on steps and procedure as specified in the policy framework.
+ To monitor Land Acquisition and Resettlement issues in project provinces.
+ To compile annual social monitoring report on Land Acquisition and Resettlement etc.
In general, Land Acquisition was well implemented and Project affected people (PAPs) have been
compensated satisfactorily:
- Total number of project affected households: 494
- Land Acquisition and Resettlement Expenditure: 513,022,392 VND of which actual compensation
amount paid to PAPs 423,983,742 VND and operating cost for land acquisition activities 89,047,650
VND.
- Resettlement: none
- "Land for Land" area compensation: 53,507.96 m2.
2.2.4 Ethnic Minority Development Plan
Annually PPMU would submit to PMU18 and World Bank an Ethnic Minority Development Plan for
roadlinks where are inhabited by ethnic minority people (EMDP) before the construction.
PMU18 hired an independent monitoring agency to supervise the compilation of above-mentioned EMDP
and road their own monitoring reports and final evaluation reports on the conduction of EMDP by PPMUYs.
On the result of the project with regards to the Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP), through survey
interview people lived on the project roads have benefited from the roads in terms of social and economic
interests.
- Training Maintenance: 72 companies
- Overseas training (in the form of overseas study tour) for 60 people in Malaysia and Thailand.
Training has made a great contribution to the successful implementation of the project.
2.3 Institutional Strengthenning:
2.3.1 Capacity strengthenningfor agencies under Ministry of Transport, PMUl8 and PPMU's on the
following aspects:
a. Equipmentfurnishing:
The project provided each participating province on car, for large programme size and provincial natural
- 19 -



areas would received 2 car each (Thanh Hoa and Nghe An).
Other equipment such as motorbikes for site supervision, computers, airconditions, filing cabinet,
telephones etc had positive impacts on project operation and coordination.
b. Planning and budgeting
The project has introduced selection methodology based on reasonably computed average cost/km, number
of beneficiary people from road improvement.
The planning and simplified selection of rural road helped PPMU and PMU1 8 easily plan and budget as
well as control the implementation.
c. Bidding and Bid Evaluation
Goods and works procurement was required to follow provisions stated in "Procurement Guideline for
Loans under IBRD and Credit from IDA". However, these provisions and procedures are difficult from
Vietnamese ones, therefore during the project implementation some difficulties were countered PMU1 8 then
organized training courses on this issue for PPMU staff to understand clearly theses procedures of the
World Bank the procurement section in the Operation Manual has not yet been complete, once revisions are
made, the training to the provinces faced difficulties. This experience should be drawn for next project. The
OM should be complete as soon as possible at early stage of the project.
The second year training program offered courses on bid evaluation in August 1998, after this course bid
evaluation showed remarkable progress, bidding process was clearly understood and progressed well in
subsequent years.
d. Monitoring and Evaluation
The project has 812 small-size contracts, therefore monitoring based on computerised system created
favourable conditions for PMU18 and WB to analyse and based on database and output monitoring and
evaluation reports.
Monitoring and evaluation reports would provide information on progress of each contract, implementation
and disbursement progress highlighting indicators for the management to take action speeding up the
project.
- Semi-annual reports and annual reports are all completed by E&M system in accordance with forms
provided by the WB.
e. Geographical Information System (GIS):
The project introduced a rural roads information system based on Geographic Information System (GIS)
established in PID 1 to improve data collection treatment and analysis on rural road network, the system
assisted in planning and maintenance planning support management, reporting, monitoring and evaluation.
The system was installed and implemented in 4 locations: Thai Nguyen, Phu Tho, Thanh Hoa and Nghe
An. The system has been put into operations, this is a valuable tool for planning activities for future
projects, at the present time the system can not be made full use of as it is not yet installed in the whole
country, and operating effectively.
- 20 -



f Disbursement
During the early of the report (commencing from 1997) payments to contractors were delayed due to the
lengthy approval steps, the average time span for payment was 41 days while according to project design it
was specified only 30 days. Payments were fast and orderly in subsequent years of implementation as
conducted by the 6-month frequent supervision mission from WB to be around 24-26 days.
The whole project disbursed 778 billion VND accounting for 100% of the project cost:
- Civil work: 697,6 Billion VND
-  Others:     80,4 Billion VND
On the average, the time span between contractor's certificate submission to payments to contractors was
30 days as specified by the project design while the shortest time span was recorded to be 8 days(for some
payments). Disbursement and payment span was a successful issue that participating agencies of the
project can rest assured.
g. Construction quality:
Design and implementation standards and specifications described in the Technical Guidelines are suitably
tailored to the project; simplified engineering is necessary to avoid over design cost against improvement
investment cost.
At the early stage of the project, design engineers faced with more than little difficulties and were criticised
to create high variation volumes, the solution to shorten time span between design to implementation stage
allowance for variation volumes to be paid have helped minimize the disadvantage side of simplified
engineering. In general, the comprehensive construction technique evaluation showed good result.
h. Notable points / issues:
- In designing, reference should be made to practical conditions of works to check on critical items, good
design is the first step leading to good road ruction quality.
-Materials should be tested, only test-passed quality materials can be used.
- Drainage structures should be constructed in accordance with requirements and roles of this item.
3. Issues affecting the project:
- Spot improvement methods with low-cost investment requiring roads after rehabilitation to be maintained
routinely, in many places in the project routine maintenance could hardly be done because fund
arrangement for this was so difficult capacity of local people to mobilise for this work failed due to lack of
fund, equipment, and knowledge on routine maintenance.
- Some PPMU's are not competent to complete their work load as their staff's qualification as well as
attention poorly and limitedly paid by local authorities.
- Many departments, agencies participating in the management of the project also led to delayed
implementation progress.
- The project have direct impacts on people in rural areas, therefore it got supported and welcomed strongly
by localities.
- 21 -



4. Sustainablity of the project
The rehabilitation of 4409,3 km of roads and construction of 9644.0 m of bridges in the project with not so
high standards at the early stage could bring into full play its strong points improving capacity as well as
level of service of roads. However, to maintain on a sustainable basis, support need to be provided for
routine maintenance trough concrete arrangements such as fund, equipment and especially organisation to
implement this work.
5. Implementation of the Bank:
The implementation of the Bank was done mainly through regular WB supervision missions, which created
opportunities to discuss and evaluate project components. However, there were differences in regulations
and policies between the GOV and WB, leading to some violation cases in some provinces and delays
caused by postponement and stops of work involved with violation delaying the implementation process.
Therefore for poor and under developed countries WB should have more flexible rules and policies.
6. Implementation of the Borrower:
There is a strong support from localities to the project; especially contractors took an active part in the
project. Relevant Vietnamese agencies such as: the Government Office, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of
Planning and Investment, Ministry of Finance, the State Bank of Vietnam and PMU18 have promptly
responded requirements and demands of the project which led the project to keeping well paced as required.
7. Operations for the futures:
The Second Rural Transport Project is now on going (started in 2000) in 40 provinces over the country
with greater project scope and cost and co-financed by more financing sources. With the current pace of
investment, many other rural transport projects will be financed and implemented well.
8. Basic Lessons:
- The Rural Transport Project has positive impacts on communities in rural, remote and ethnic minority
areas. Beneficiary people of the project should be informed in advance of the project's scope and their
intermediary roles in the project.
- Maintain regular training for project management officers, contractors, consultants to improve work
quality, avoid mistakes and speed up implementation progress.
- The Government should arrange counter-part fund for project timorously, this is an important step to
ensure implementation process on a normal track.
- Maintain regular maintenance for rural road to ensure the project sustainability.
9. Annexes:
Annex 1- Project 's Main Indicators
Annex 2- Project Component Cost
Annex 3- Comparison of Costs stated in PAD and in practice during Project Implementation
- 22 -



Annex 4- Implementation Completion Reports of 18 project provinces
Ministry of Transport       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC of Vietnam
Project Management Unit No.18         Independence - Freedom - Happiness
Hanoi, September 2001
Report
On Social and Environmental Aspects
Rural Transport i Project (RTPl)
1-Background:
The project objectives according to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) signed between the
Vietnamese Government and the would Bank are to rehabilitate and improve rural access and link them to
provincial, district roads (copying PAD) since 1997, rehabilitation of roadlinks in 18 provinces have been
done extensively and is due to be completed the end of 2001.
2-Characteristics of the project:
Rurl roads under the project are constructed aiming at linking communal to district centers, some roads
are built in remote, isolated areas where are inhabited by various ethnic minority groups who have so far
been inaccessible by cars, carts, home truck (cong nong) and Transported their goods by shouldering
bamboo poles or on horse back.
Advantages during theproject:
-      Rehabilitated roads have brought direct benefit to the people whose lives stayed along and in the
vicinity of the road. It has been in accordance with people's desire and widely'supported and created with
favouvable conditions during the implementation.
-      Beneficiary people are actively taking part in monitoring the construction works by contractors in
various aspects i.e. length, geometrical dimensions, construction material quality, therefore quality of
works have been constructed.
-      Rehabilitation is done mainly on the existing road alignments; minor widening caused minor land
acquisition. The affected lands are so much minimal in comparison to those of the affected households, then
there is no case of removal or resettlement. Affected households generally claimed for cash compensation
(only Vinh Phuc province where land for land compensation was made for 2,116 m2).
-      As the simplified and user - friendly engineering design is applied in the project, it has created
favourable conditions for private small scaled contractor to participate, it helped bring into full use the off -
farm labour for simple unskilled works. This is also a chance for farmers to improve living standards of the
local people, who.in addition be served eventually by completed rehabilitation works, The people worked
with high accountability and it some how limited negative impacts of the project.
Difficulties during the project:
In order for the project to be carried out in accordance with required progress schedule, completing social
- 23 -



safeguard policy requirement is very important. In the 3rd and 4th year work plan, public education and
awareness campaigns on the objectives, size, safeguard policy of the project by ways of consultations with
community, broadcasting information over communal common loudspeakers, disseminating pamphlets to
project areas. These activities undertaken by Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU's) are without
any budgets funded under the project, even without tips to ethnic minority language translators; the
pamphlets are all printed in Vietnamese ("kinh" - majority language). This is a room for improvement in the
next project.
Achievements of the project:
During the project implementation, through information that PMU18 collected from two independent social
monitors namely the " Human Geographic Research Centers:
(HGRC) supervising for the 1st and 2nd years and the " Institute of sociology" (IoS) for the 3rd and 4th
years, and based on results of random checks by PMU18, PID1, general outcomes are highlighted as
follows:
-      Rehabilitation and improvement of rural roads are widely supported by households living along
and who benefiting from the project - it gives an excitement in communities, especially in ethic minority
people.
-      Thanks to improved roads, some ethnic minority group who used to themselves along the roads,
some economic farms such as tea and coffee... appeared, agricultural machines are now accessible to the
communities to support people with land reclamation and intensive farm production to increase the yields,
these helped boosted living standards.
-      Social services such as schools and medical stations have developed since, various schools have
been built, markets are emerging, goods enjoying good delivery and transportation, ethnic minority people
have access to participating cultural and social movements such as cinemas, visit to other ethnic groups on
holidays and traditional new year's day.
-      Land acquisition compensation activities have been conducted satisfactorily with strict compliance
with the policy framework in principle of compensation at replacement costs without depreciation.
Detailed figures regarding compensation as follows:
Total land acquisition expenditure: 531,022.392 VND
Compensation paid to PAPs: 423,983,742 VND
Operation cost: 89,047,650 VND
Affected households 494
Affected areas: 53,507.96 m2
Of which:
Soc Trang 57,027,618 VND for 49 affected households;
Bac Kan 31,901,000 VND for 12 affected households;
Thai Nguyen: 41,725,802 VND for 88 affected households;
Vinh Phuc "Land for land" compensation for 49 affected households;
Binh Thuan 28,700,000 VND for 44 households;
Dac Lak 200,903,700 VND for affected households;
Kon Tum: 14,423,763 VND for affected households
Lao Cai: 134,308,113 VND for 38 affected households.
- 24 -



Short-comings of the project
-      Due to the hearty support of the people to the project, some PPMU did not take land acquisition
compensation seriously and compensation amounts are so minimal and considered affected land and
property are contribution from PAPs without compensation by PPMU. This has caused claims by people
For example, "Huong Lo 2" roadlink in Soc Trang province where initially PPMU ascertained that
there had been no land acquisition and allowed the contractor to proceed with construction. In a
supervision mission visit to the road site, land acquisition was observed without being reported to the
Bank and the construction that particular roadlink was canceled. PMU1 8 had later organised meetings
with local people, reviewed and checked what PPMU had done with compensation. Only after then
were conclusions: PPMU after the construction works canceled had made compensation to all projects
affected house holds (48) with total compensation amount of 44,005,968 VND.
-      Capability of assigned PPMU staff in the aspect of environment, ethnic minority, land acquisition
have been low.
-      Expenditures for conducting education campaigns environmental inventories before works
proposed to be included under the project, monitoring during the project implementation, post-
environmental assessment for the under completed roadlink are not yet included under the project.
Recommendations:
-      Training to improve staff capabilities of PPMU, PDOT with regards to social and environmental
aspects as specified in the project, avoid cases where trainees after the training course replaced by
completely new staff to be in change of social and environmental aspects,
-      Budgets should be arranged for PPMU, women union, functional departments and agencies of the
provinces to participate in land acquisition, environmental and ethnic minority activities.
-      Budgets should be arranged to conduct public education campaigns such as: meetings with local
PC, representatives of relevant organizations, schools, medical stations, markets, infornation broadcasting
after communal loudspeaker system, printing and disseminating pamphlets in Vietnamese ("kinh" language)
and ethnic minority (if any language) regarding project size and policy framework so that people from all
walks of lives be consulted.
The following is a extract summary of the Implementation Completion Reports received from each of
the 18 project provinces.
Ministry of Transport        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC of Vietnam
Project Management Unit No.18          Independence - Freedom - Happiness
__                                              _* * *-** 
Following completion of the roads the provincial project management units provided completion reports
detailing some of their experiences from the project. The following are extracts from three of the provincial
reports giving details of the observed impact and the lessons learnt from the project.
Bac Kan province
- 25 -



The service of the road after the improvement
-      Number of people benefit from the improved roads: 27,987 (8396 out of which are poor)
-      Poverty alleviation:
+ The living incomes of local residents are improved.
+ The operation of transporting goods, services, agricultural products, accesses to schools, clinics are
more facilitated.
+The improvement of the rural roads not only help promote the economy of the area but also have good
effects on other vicinities in Bac Kan.
+ The better transport conditions will save the transporting time.
+ Woman emancipation : the mountainous women are very busy all year round. The improved road
will accelerate their day to day duties and in production, sparing time for their social activities, making
their access to broad knowledge and education, gaining their equal status to man in community.
The traffic flows through improved road are increased, specifically:
a.     Sau Hai - Nong Thuong
Vehicle          Unit             Traffic volume  Traffic volume   Increase volume
prior to         post-
improvement     improvement
Light lorry                      5                12               7
Medium lorry                     3                6                3
Heavy lorry                      2                6                4
Semi-motorised                   15               35               20
Coach                            0                2                2
Bus                              4                10               6
Car                            _ 6                8                2
Motorcycle                       250              400              150
Bicycle                          56               100              44
Experiences drawn from the project
-      The investment portion for 1 km of road should be increased to 20,000 USD.
-      The low investment portion will result in low road classifications which will not accommodate the
increase in traffic volume and load. For the project success, the drainage works as culverts, spillways on
these improved roads should be properly constructed.
-      The management of works should be handovered to local levels for their small scope, the
consultant should only play their support role to the province in accordance with WB guidelines.
Dak Lak Province
The service of the road following the Improvement After 4 year-improvement:
-      Districts and cities benefit from the project: 17 districts and the city of Buon Ma Thuot.
-      Communes benefit from the project: 89/201 communes equaling to 44%, 18 of which is belonged
to area HI.
-      Local residents benefit from the project: 633,043/1,800,000 persons equaling to 35%, the poor
make up 19% translating to 118,435/633.043 persons.
-      Kl indicator (the number of beneficial people per kIn ): 1206 personinm. The income per capita of
- 26 -



residents in project areas are considerably improved. The income per capita has been increased to US$300
from US$200 in 1996. Most of the improved roads in the project are interdistrict and intercommune roads.
The bad condition of these roads have limited the business, production and good exchange. Following the
improvement, the trade has been developed which result in increased income of the local residents. Living
quarters are formed along the alignments, followed by the booming of services. The improved roads also
facilitate the education, public health and help to create better environment. The traffic volume is increased
by 30 - 40 % for all kinds of vehicles. Although the vehicle counting data are not available, according to
local report, about 50 - 100 motorised vehicles run on these roads per day. The volume can be as high as
above 100 vehicles per day like EaHo - EaToh (09-05-02), EaKar - Bu<n M'Trung (09-07-01), Bu<<n Bon
(09-06-05), Ch-Pao - Bxnh ThuEn (09-047-06), Bu<n R - Buon Niang (09-12-04); C-R6t - Eap<<
(09-14-01) ....
Experience drawn from the project
A.     Advantages:
1.     The selection of the road project: the Provincial Rural Transport Project Management Unit has
properly applied the social and economic criteria set out by WB and MOT. Therefore, the project
investment efficiency in terms of economic, technical and social aspects have been obtained following the
completion of the project. Compliments and supports are raised from the local government and people.
2.    Investment advocacy
Dak Lak is the largest province in the country with main transport network of roadway. The rural transport
network is in bad conditions which directly effect the socio-economic development of the localities.
Moreover, most of Dak Lak lands are resorted on agricultural and industrial plants. The vehicles of all
kinds used for above mentioned production and activities are about 50000. The operation of these vehicles
during rainy days have quickly ruined the roads. So the Rural Transport Project Management Unit of the
province decided to invest in every district, every alignment with the construction of bridges, permanent
culvert, long ditch and riprap slopes of more than 6% using cement mortar, soil mixed macadam or water
mixed macadam. Roads running through densely populated areas have been AC paved on macadam base
with funding from province, district, communes and local community raised budget (a total of 71.22 Iam).
For roads with less slope, the PMU apply gravel aggregate with average thickness of 20cm.
The provincial people committee and local government highly appreciated the implementation result of the
rural transport project no.1. this project is considered to be successful in terms of road and construction
quality. The working progress is ensured. Up to now, there are signs in 18 districts with title "Rural
Transport Work - WB". These roads have constructively contributed to the development of socio-economic
and national security as well as to the poor alleviation of minor groups in Dak Lak province.
3.     The implementation of Rural Transport Project No.1
All the processes in the implementation of Rural Transport Project No. 1 from planning, design survey,
tendering, construction, acceptance to payment are carried out promptly and satisfied in accordance with
stipulations of WB and MOT. Out of 18 provinces having project, Dak Lak is evaluated as one of the
leading regarding having well implemented and qualified road project.
B.     Disadvantages
-27 -



1.     The coordination of project districts and provincial Rural Transport Project management unit in
mobilizing funds within the district budget for the construction of AC pavement on macadam base during
the last 2 years of the project have been enhanced, yet with adequate attention. Most of the districts seem to
account on the project funding rather than the local budget for AC pavement construction which are
available but not yet resorted.
2.     Some districts and communities have been aware of protecting the rural transport works for long
term utilization. However, following problems remain regarding the management and exploitation of rural
road network after their completions:
-      Some rural roads afler the improvement and handover to local government have failed to be
regularly maintained and repaired. Cost for road maintenance and repairing in district budget are so
limited.
-      The responsibility of protection and management of rural transport networks in some districts are
not good which resulted in such incidents as excavating road for pumping pipe watering cafe trees, building
houses upon long ditches, breaking sign post, over loading etc... These heavily deteriorate the road quality
and effect their uses.
All these problems should be properly and timely solved in the forthcoming time.
Recommendations
1.     Work insurance: the work insurance should be carried out in the project province, for Dak lak are
always in danger of flood. For example, for a period form 1998 to 2000, some damaged works in the
province have had difficulties in carrying out compensation procedures for the insurance contract were
made in Hanoi and Hochiminh cities.
2.    Investment portion: at present, the allowed investment portion of 14,000 USD/km is appropriate. It
is recommended that the portion should be planed for a whole year rather than basing on each alignment so
that the road will be optimized in term of utilization purpose.
Roads running through densely populated areas should apply water mixed macadam base and paved with
AC from the local budget and community raised fund which will help to maintain the road stability for long
term use and for environmental protection.
3.     Equipment of provincial RTPMU: it is requested that the RTPMU be provided with more
measurement devices and testing equipments for the inspection of work quality.
4.     Recommendations to state, MOT and PMU18: Direct Dak Lak province to filfill the priority
inventory "primary roads" of Rural Transport Project No.2 - WB and AC pavement of roads in Rural
Transport Project No.2 - WB.
5.    In Dak Lak province, there are about 2000 km of roads in bad condition. Most of them are earth
fill roads without dminage works which present bid difficulty for traveling during the 6 rainy months. On
the other hand, the local budget is linited, so we recommend that the State and MOT allow the continued
participation of Dak Lak province in Rural Transport Project No.3 - WB.
Vinh Phuc Province
- 28 -



The service of the road after the improvement
-      Number of people benefit from the irnproved roads: 3000 people/kan (500 out of which are poor)
-      The living incomes of local residents are improved (500,000 VND on average)
-      The operation of transporting goods, services to center of the commune, accesses to schools,
clinics are more facilitated.
-      Most of improved roads in Vinh Phuc province are interdistrict roads. So after the improvement,
the road facilitated the transport between communes and between districts, effectively linking sub
surroundings.
-      The traffic flows through improved road are increased, 3-5 times compared to pre-improvement
period, especially heavy lorry and coach.
For example, according to traffic count statistics at Ben Trang - Dai Dinh route the traffic volume are
raised by 3 times in improved roads, specifically:
+ cars : 32vehicles/24h
+ 6-8 ton lorry: 42 vehicles/24h
+1OT lorry: 18 vehicles/24h
Experiences drawn from the project
*      Advantages:
-      Facilitate the business of private enterprises in the area
-      Improve the transport network in the province, increase the income of local population and
alleviate the poverty.
-      In fact, the project has contributed to create more jobs for local work force as they are employed in
road construction.
-      Better improve the officials capacity in the project management
-      Increase the capacity of the local contractor in terms of construction, supervision, bidding process,
payment, acceptance...
Disadvantages
-      The initial coordination between levels relating project management are not concerted, leading to
changing forms as contract forms, bidding invitation form or undue payment approval etc...
-      There should be common agreement regarding the issue of regulations, payment certificate,
construction forms, implementation and completion time so as to facilitate the construction.
Future recommendations
-      The preparation of feasibility study should be agreed between WB and related offices so as to
reach a suitable investment without adjusting price and funding plan.
-      Common agreement on monitoring procedures should be obtained.
-      The resettlement procedures and social/environmental issues should be in accordance with state
stipulations (e.g. compensation price, environmental criteria..) for timely and proper performance.
- 29 -



3NQAO TRONGVj4NTU
COero E6AI X&   cwlt NOKIA 'V1T M
MEnIIZSWY OF ThANSPOR'
8OTkTmD..        s    M :8..4ITS
DM   14 low 2002
ftm NKuy Vitt Tin
V&.)WuzyaTsr?i
To;  P4. SlY BwU*azn                           Fau  022~)"02 3573
Sr. 1mpmtegnaikm
TmspoztSecrW1.dt, Em AsA, & Pudfic Reokm
CC.: M   4 Jldm  Di
Tnn*PWa SocwtorU*i1 Eas Adia & Fefii~G&WOt
CC: M4r Andrew Steer                           Paz: 9346P98. 934639
0mmu7fTlbemTh iuw
Bean Asia & Ps a Reeion
StIbJe4i   VilM= RrMi Tmtnqtat Pm*e~ (Crs4t 292O.N') hmfoWnfl*m
C mi. 
Doo Mr.
Ibank you vwy mAst br yatw Itw dated Ybme 03. NMO ZSUUITAs da tmploamemimlo
CarnpIcia Ropoa for Rnag Truanspa Pmojec-Qodk 2929. VN .
We hxn'uacd0d the draft fi n$=I    Cawuomblaon Repat. We "lk apee an this
*aft fi ns    e pothea abe M dmo'smerkud pWWOM -Jul
scozs don*.
C:. e     W A9 ,. 3
MinR  of RTh J d 9
- 30 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no NGO/private sector partners.
10. Additional Information
In parallel to the Rural Transport project, the World Bank's Development Research Group, funded in part
by Canadian and DFID Trust funds, has been conducting an impact evaluation of the poverty impact of
rural roads based on data on a sample of roads implemented under RTP- 1. This work is still underway,
nevertheless preliminary results are reported in the draft paper "Impact Evaluation of a Rural Road
Rehabilitation Project" January 2002. Please refer to Annex 3 of this ICR for a full extract from the report.
The paper presents findings on initial impacts on living standards of RTP- 1 project roads. As time passes,
more projects will be completed, and larger benefits might emerge from completed projects. Nonetheless,
some notable results emerge from this study.
First, the study finds that the project was pro-poor in that it reached more poor households than it would
have if it had simply been equally distributed across rural communes. It also found that, in general, the
quality of roads improved in the project communes. However, there was evidence of behavioral responses
by implementing agents, notably in the evident switch in road rehabilitation from earth roads to paved
roads.
The findings point to significant effects on living standards both at commune and household level. For
example, the road rehabilitation projects significantly increased the availability of freight services in the
project communes (9%), although they had no overall impact on passenger transport. The time needed to
reach the closest hospital in case of a serious injury declined by an impressive three-quarters of an hour.
Against that, there is some evidence of increases in the time needed to reach some shops and services that
can easily relocate. In general, however, there are positive (or non-negative) impacts on the availability of
services in the project communes. In particular, increases in the number of pharmacies (14% more
communes have pharmacies), in the availability of credit from the Agricultural Bank of Viet Nam (18%)
and other government development projects (14%) were attributable to the road projects.
The most interesting finding at the household level is that impacts significantly vary across income groups,
and that the strongest impacts were for the poorest households. In particular, although the time needed to
walk to various places declined overall, time savings were more pronounced for the poorest 40 percent of
households.
It is important to caution however, that these are first-round impacts that may well be volatile and alter as
more time passes since the roads were rehabilitated. In follow-up work there will be more rounds of data
which will allow for a greater variety of outcome variables. Furthermore, given longer time elapsed
between project completion and data collection, the results will reveal more about how short- or long-lived
the impacts identified so far are destined to be.
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/MatriX- -'     .         ;   edten ls PSR! -          |Actual/Latestsdimfate -
Increase In household Income from off-farm  5%                              This vill be determined as part of the impact
work                                                                         study undertaken by the Bank Research
Department.
Percentage of Contracts awarded to prvate  35.3%                            36%
contractors
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix              2     Pronlcted In last PSR        -       Actial/Latest Estim"ate
Length of Contracted Roads (Km) - district  4,350 km                        4,403 km
(km) + communal (km)
Original proposed 5,000 km of which 3,500
km district roads and 1,500 km communal
roads.
Cumulative length of Maintained Roads (kin). 3,440 km                        3,444 km
Percentage of contracts awarded to prvate  30 %                              30 %
contractors (Rehabilitation).
Percentage of contracts awarded to private  55.8%                            59 %
contractors (Maintenance).
Percentage of contracts awarded to private  30%                              30 %
companies by value (Rehabilitatlon).
Percentage of contracts awarded to private  57 %                             57 %
companies by value (Maintenance).
Average sizes of private contracts    USS 58,685                             US$ 57,926
(Rehabilitatlon).
Average sizes of private contracts     US$ 4.683                             US$ 4,714
(Maintenance).
End of project
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
,!  K. ra    ~      .. -.                     Appraisal  Actu'allLatest ', Percentage of|
.i,;..-.Estimate.  Estimate ' ; ' Ap'praisal
Project Cost By Component            US$tmate           . Eit
US-iilion  US$' million~ 
Roads rehabilitation and maintenance              49.97          52.54           105
Institutional Strengthening                         1.02          0.24            24
Study                                              0.50           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                               51.49          52.78
Physical Contingencies                             5.15          2.98            58
Price Contingencies                               4.25           0.00             0
Total Project Costs            60.89          55.76
Total Financing Required            60.89          55.76
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.                 .      , ~~~~~~~Procurement M ethod. ' ' .  .......... . - ' .
Expenditure Category.    ICB       ProCurement Method          N.B.F.,  -Total Cost'
.NC.B : . --   - |Other      .             -.
1. Works                    0.00         34.50        19.30        0.00        53.80
(0.00)      (31.40)       (18.00)      (0.00)      (49.40)
2. Goods                     0.60         0.00         1.90         0.00        2.50
(0.60)       (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)      (1.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.20         0.00        4.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.70)       (0.00)      (3.70)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.40         0.00        0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.60         34.50        25.80        0.00        60.90
(0.60)      (31.40)       (23.00)      (0.00)      (55.00)
- 33 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actualliatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent
iP6.                      -~~~~~~~~~~ProcurernentVM6thod          - 
Expendciure Catory. .    ;      ;                          2         . tiotal Costl
1. Works                       0.00         49.32          0.00         0.00         49.32
(0.00)        (47.60)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (47.60)
2. Goods                       0.40          1.40          0.01         0.00          1.81
(0.37)        (1.15)        (0.01)       (0.00)        (1.53)
3. Services                    1.03          0.00          0.30         0.00          1.33
(1.03)        (0.00)        (0.30)       (0.00)        (1.33)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.06          3.25         0.00          3.31
(0.00)        (0.06)        (0.08)       (0.00)        (0.14)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       1.43          50.78         3.56          0.00         55.77
(1.40)        (48.81)       (0.39)        (0.00)      (50.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (In US$ million equivalent)
. . e ., S - -". . '' @< ' ",' -- ' ' I * u ' , r r | X 1 Prcentajge of.  Aprisal
Component        :  ' Appris al Estimate            ua l LatstEstiet a t
Bini.' 'Go    ~ ,C    .   I , .| .Bank,, l  |..CoF.    |B nk    Govt.  |CoF.
Roads rehabilitation and  53.80   5.40     0.00      50.36     5.92     0.00     93.6  109.6   0.0
maintenance
Institutional Strengthening  1.20  0.00    0.00      0.24      0.00     0.00     20.0   0.0    0.0
Study                   0.00      0.50     0.00   I  0.00      0.00     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
- 34 -



Contracts:
Goods:
Item      Contract       Contractor   Contract Contract Value Contract Date GoV's Fun  IDA Fund  Actual Payment
Currency                           for Tax    (USD)       (USD)
I   Procurement of     Technology     USD         5,000.0t 31/08/1998               5,000.01    5,000.00
SunsysteTn Software  Resource
Vietnam               _
2   22 Vehicles for 18  VINASTAS      USD      1,012,000.0  08/14/1997 220,000.0C 1,012,000.0  1,232,000.00
____ provinces            MOTORS
3   Procurement of      TECAPRO       USD       285,324.0  24/12/1998  17,126.81  285,324.0   302,450.81
Computers and
___   Office Equipment
4   Procurement of    GENPACIFIC      USD         84,307.0  09/01/1999  13,914.51  84,307.0    98,221.61
Office Equipment
5   Procurement of     TODIMAX        USD        137,006.0t   1998     24,340.2   137,006.0(   161,346.27
Motorbikes
Total Goods                                                         275,381.6  1,523,637.0  1,799,018.6
- 35 -



Consultants services:
Item      Contract       Contractor   Contract Contract Value Contract Date GoV's Fun  IDA Fund  Actual Payment
Currency                          for Tax    (USD)       (USD)
I  Implementation        SMEC        USD &     USD 532,582 21/10/1997          1,018,167.5  1,018,167.50
Advisor                           AUD      AUD 881,596
2   Maintenance         Training &    USD         59,585.8  08/17/1998            57,979.0    57,979.09
Training           Tourism Trade
Centre
3   Sunsystem           Technology    USD          3,156.5  31/08/1998             3,156.5     3,156.50
Maintenance &        Resource
Training             Vietnam                                              l
4   Overseas Study Tour  Tounsm &     USD        113,179.8( 19/05/1999           112,028.4   112,028.4
Services Co.
MARD
5   Independent Social   Human        VND     647,500,000.0  06/03/1998
Monitoring Services  Geography
- First Year Program Research Centre
6   Social Impact        Human        VND     245,700,000.0  06/03/1998
Assessment on       Geography                                                 40,119.1    40,119.15
Community &       Research Centre
affected Ethnic
Minorities - First
Year Programi
7   Independent Social   Human        VND     565,730,000.0  01/10/1998
Monitoring Services  Geography
- Second Year     Research Centre
Program                   .
8   Social Impact        Human        VND     313,445,000.0  01/10/1998           55,592.0    55,592.07
Assessment on       Geography
Community and     Research Centre
Affected Ethnic
Minorities - Second
Year Program
9   Training for        Centre for    VND     816,587,500.0  23/06/1998           58.698.8    58,698.82
Contractors, training  Research,
on supervision, and  Consulting &
project management  Experimental
Construction,
University of
Transport
10  Independent Social  Institute of  VND     552,907,020.0  23/02/2000           16,997.93    16,997.93
Monitoring Services  Sociology
and Ethnic
Minorities
Consultations - Third
Year Program
11  Social Impact       Institute of  VND     227,403,000.0  26/07/00              6,743.6      6,743.69
Assessment on        Sociology
Community and
Affected Ethnic
Minorities - Fourth
Year Program
12  Auditing Services in Boume Griffith  USD       25,473.0  28/08/1998            19,866.3    19,866.30
4 years          (Grant Thomton)
13  English Training   Oxford Center   USD         15,792.0( 02/12/1999            15,792.0(   15,792.00
14  GIS                    FPT         USD         68,619.9  30/10/1998           68,619.9<    68,619.99
Total Consultant Services                                                    1,473,761.4  1,473,761.48
- 36 -



Rehabilitation - First year work program
Contracts awarded to              Contracts awarded to           Total
Province     Length           private contractors                 SOE contraco rs           contract
(kim)   Number     Amount        US$      Number     Amount         US$          US$
('000 VND)     US        ubr      ('000 VND)      USUS
SAC KAN            28.90    0             0.00        0.00   4       3,295,726.01   247,222.71  247,222.71
BAC UEU             6.42    1        314,232.84   23,571.59  3         715,101.67    53,642.01   77,213.60
BEN TRE            37.41    0             0.00        0.00    9      5,320,928.62   399,139.50  399,139.50
BINH THUAN         61.20    4      3,339,399.75  250,498.82  4       2,865,696.95   214,964.89  465,463.71
CA MAU             46.62    2        663,152.12   49,745.11   7      7,329,684.56   549,822.56  599,567.68
DAK LAK           117.38   11      6,665,115.48  499,971.16  9       6,422,060.72   481,738.88  981,710.01
HA GIANG           54.33    2      2,530,935.    189,853.35  7       5,113,322.43   383,566.31  573,419.66
HA TINH            73.46    3      2,115,530.99  158,692.60   9      5,841,537.36   438,191.99  596,884.58
KON TUM            56.58    3      2,540,992.50  190,607.79  4       3,248,212.16   243,658.55  434,266.35
LAI CHAU           40.60    0             0.00        0.00    6      4,777,043.52   358,340.97  358,340.97
LAO CA]            63.60    3      3,504,774.18  262,904.07  4       4,325,792.98   324,491.26  587,395.33
NGHE AN           148.15    3      1,760,220.04  132,039.61  20     14,198,452.66  1,065,070.34  1,197,109.95
PHU THO           104.70    4      2,000,188.57  150,040.40   3      2,821,785.26   211,670.94  361,711.34
SOC TRANG          37.12    0             0.00        0.00    8      7,636,786.34   572,859.23  572,859.23
THAI NGUYEN       100.80    3      1,366,540.62  102,508.49   9       7,276,108.70  545,803.67  648,312.15
THANH HOA         215.66   10      6,241,971.79  468,229.82  13      11,899,218.74  892,597.61  1,360,827.44
TRA VINH           79.95    4      4,477,879.85  335,899.77  14      12,092,289.73  907,080.47  1,242,980.24
VINH PHUC          44.25    2        502,751.80   37,712.98   4       2,619,842.39  196,522.57  234,235.56
TOTAL            1,317.13  55     38,023,685.54  2,852,275.56  137  107,799,590.77  8,086,384.43 10,938,659.99
Exchange rate VN/USD       13,331
Rehabilitation - Second year work program
Contracts awarded to               Contracts awarded to          Total
Province     Length           private contractors                 SOE contractors            contracts
(km)    Number     Amount         US$     Number     Amount         US$          US$
('000 VND)      US        ubr     (p000 VND)      USUS
BAC KAN            19.01    0             0.00        0.00    6       3,202,521.80  230,115.82  230,115.82
BAC UEU            19.30    1      2,945,130.08  211,621.04   4       4,223,421.95  303,472.15   515,093.20
BEN TRE            61.81    2      2,178,627.38  156,544.33   6       5,682,054.01  408,281.53   564,825.8'
BINH THUAN         61.55    5      4,433,608.35  318,575.01   8       4,022,125.48  289,008.08   607,583.09
CA MAU             26.32    4      1,777,116.15  127,693.91   6       5,05,659.00  363,272.19   490,966.10
DAKLAK            118.17   10      7,312,916.07  525,466A1   10       6,618,985.04  475,604.30  1,001,070.71
HA GIANG           69.00    2      1,907,779.69  137,082.68   7       5,816,214.51  417,921.57   555,004.25
HA TINH            74.03    4      3,766,394.10  270,632.61  12       6,322,221.00  454,280.45   724,913.06
KON TUM           134.04    4      5,491,411.20  394,582.97   8      11,393,112.87  818,647.18  1,213,230.16
LAI CHAU           79.80    0             0.00        0.00    9       9,118,319.00  655,192.86   655,192.86
LAO CAI            66.65    3      3,167,919.62  227,629A9    9       9,554,407.30  686,527.79   914,157.28
NGHE AN           182.51    5      4,159,367.00  298,869.51  26      23,679,486&00  1,701,479.20  2,000,348.71
PHU THO            57.88    2      1,074,164.04   77,183.59  10       6,195,120.18  445,147.67   522,331.27
SOC TRANG          11.05    3      2,527,940.87  181,644.10  12      10,537,019.91  757,133.00   938,777.09
THAI NGUYEN        62.75    0             0.00         0.00   9       8,184,444.80  588,089.73   588,089.73
THANH HOA         251.13   16      16,814,616.20  1,208,206.96  24   23,076,483.40  1,658,150.71  2,866,357.66
TRA VINH           35.50    0             0.00         0.00  14      12,722,759.74  914,188.38   914,188.38
VINH PHUC          97.79    4      3,301,313.14  237,214.42   8       4,534,986.00  325,859.45   563,073.8E
TOTAL            1,428.29  65     60,858,303.89  4,372,947.04  188  159,939,341.98  11,492,372.06 15,865,319.10
Exchange rate VN/USD       13,917
- 37 -



Rehabilitation - Third year work program
Contracts awarded to               Contracts awarded to           Total
Province     Length            private contractors                 SOE contracto rs           contracts
(km)    Number     Amount         US$      Number     Amount         US$          US$
Nubr ('000 VND)                ubr     ('000 VND)       USUS
BAC KAN            15.34    1        727,816.00    51,395.81  8       4,750,643.00   335,473.70   386,869.50
BAC LIEU           13.19    1       1,203,469.94   84,984.81  5       5,006,057.61   353,510.18   438,494.99
BEN TRE            29.45    1       1,051,254.36   74,235.88  12     10,187,197.83   719,384.07   793,619.96
BINH THUAN         83.53    6       6,409,351.02  452,605.82  5       4,954,045.06   349,837.23   802,443.05
CA MAU             24.78    3       1,941,857.49  137,127.14   6       5,581,861.31  394,171.41   531,298.55
DAK LAK           182.19    12     12,987,227.20  917,112.29  16     13,423,784.00   947,940.40  1,865,052.69
HA GIANG           56.21    10      6,604,071.52  466,356.30  11      8,402,042.00   593,322.65  1,059,678.94
HA TINH            91.90    3       2,818,995.00  199,067.51  27     19,108,278.11  1,349,359.37  1,548,426.88
KON TUM            78.00    4       4,937,109.00  348,641.27  6       4,576,480.00   323,174.92   671,816.19
LAI CHAU           99.00    2       2,152,251.00  151,984.39  13      13,670,031.00  965,329.50  1,117,313.89
LAO CAI            82.21    4       4,872,906.00  344,107.48  11      11,408,485.00  805,627.07  1,149,734.55
NGHE AN           152.75    8       7,604,842.22  537,027.20  19      16,198,496.00  1,143,880.80  1,680,908.00
PHU THO            86.49    6       3,956,546.17  279,397.37  11       8,452,560.00  596,890.05   876,287.42
SOC TRANG           7.03    0              0.00        0.00   11      9,337,643.79   659,391.55   659,391.55
THAI NGUYEN        38.60    0              0.00        0.00    6      4,059,214.00   286,647.41   286,647.41
THANH HOA          135.20   11     10,483,129.00  740,281.69  14      13,531,984.00  955,581.10  1,695,862.79
TRA VINH           23.50    0              0.00        0.00    3       2,507,762.96  177,089.40   177,089.40
VINH PHUC          60.20    4       3,499,759.00  247,140.67   4       3,176,145.00  224,288.19   471,42&85
TOTAL            1,259.57   76     71,250,584921 5,031,465.64  188   158,332,710.67  11,180,899.00 16,212,364.63
Exchange rate VNIUSD       14,161
Rehabilitation - Fouth year work program
Contracts awarded to               Contracts awarded to           Total
Province     Length            private contractors                 SOE contractors            contracts
(km)    Number     Amount         USS      Number     Amount         US$          US$
(p000 VND)                      I('000 VND)        USUS
BEN TRE           118.82    6       6,384,951.50  432,790.04  17      21,151,175.63  1,433,686.41  1,866,476A5
DAK LAK            81.14    12      8,157,517.00  552,939.54   4       2,223,050.00   150,684.61  703,624.14
KON TUM            31.11    6       5,704,536.00  386,669.56   7       5,131,110.00   347,801.13  734,470.68
LAO CAI            38.06    6       4,797,050.00  325,157.60   8       4,949,251.00   335,474.21  660,631.80
NGHE AN            63.21    7       5,275,689.00  357,601.10   9       6,485,290.00   439,591.27  797,192.37
PHU THO            66.05    11      6,458,113.53  437,749.17   7       4,299,874.00   291,457.60  729,206.77
TOTAL              398.39   48     36,777,857.03  24A82,907.00  52    44,239,750.63  2,998,695.22  5,491,602.23
Exchange rate VNIUSD       14,753
- 38 -



Rehabilitation - summary of annual work programs
Contracts awarded to              Contracts awarded to          Total
Length           private contractors                SOE contractors           contracts
TOTAL        (km)    Number     Amount        US$     Number     Amount         US$          US$
____ ('000 VND)     US        ubr     (p000 VND)      USUS
FIrst year      1,317.13   55     38,023,685.54  2,852,276.56  137  107,799,590.77  8,086,384.43 10,938,659.99
Second year      1,428.29  65     60,858,303.89  4,372,947.04  188  159,939,341.98  11,492,372.06 15,865,319.10
Third yearl      ,259.57   76     71,250,584.92  5,031,465.64  188  158,332,710.67  11,180,899.00 16,212,364.63
Fourth year       398.39   48     36,777,857.03  2,492,907.00  52  44,239,750.63  2,998,695.22  5,491,602.23
All provinces   4,403.38  244    206,910,431.39 14,749,595.241 565  470,311,394.05  33,758,350.71 48,507,945.95
Average cost per kn per year was US$8,305 in the first year or 1998, US$11,108 in the second year,
US$12,871 in the third year, and US$13,785 in fourth year with an average for the project of US$11,016.
Cost by Contract type (1000 VND)
Province          Category A       Category B       Category C       Category D         TOTAL
BAC KAN                      2,616,545        6,810,146        1,138,888        3,356,241       13,921,820
BAC LIEU                       542,919        2,673,705        3,386,900       10,110,801       16,714,325
BEN TRE                      1,103,228       28,162,104        8,027,643       22,550,933       59,843,908
BINH THUAN                   6,470,242       15,482,343        7,972,797          250,463       30,175,845
CA MAU                       1,043,066       11,420,666        3,792,122        9,355,601       25,611,455
DAK LAK                     14,146,498       57,725,165               0         2,442,993       74,314,656
HA GIANG                     5,437,995       16,955,050        5,182,430        7,583,439       35,158,914
HA TINH                      7,523,086       22,691,937        2,862,233       13,147,849       46,225,105
KON TUM                      4,539,677       18,677,734       17,588,154        9,383,475       50,189,040
LAI CHAU                     1,547,879       22,913,044       10,484,298               0        34,945,221
LAO CAI                      5,036,861       15,943,941       26,034,334        7,396,897       54,412,033
NGHEAN                      10,194,304       42,402,196       29,529,120       10,495,577       92,621,197
PHU THO                      8,271,652       19,669,567        3,258,315       10,218,479       41,418,013
SOC TRANG                      228,006        1,772,658        7,691,618       24,699,183       34,391,465
THAI NGUYEN                  7,072,075       11,812,453        5,732,023               0        24,616,551
THANH HOA                    6,633,495       68,067,125       20,544,720          982,785       96,228,125
TRA VINH                     1,311,296       10,141,901       13,558,385       11,482,133       36,493,715
VINH PHUC                    6,345,887       11,294,842        2,736,848          736,624       21,114,201
Total                       90,064,711      384,616,577      169,520,828      144,193,473      788,395,589
Note: A - Contracts < 50,000 $US with no major bridge works
B - Contracts < 100,000 $US with no major bridge works
C - Contracts < 200,000 $US which may indude major bridge works
D - Contracts < 50,000 $US for bridge works
- 39 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
This section contains extracts from two reports and an assessment of the current economic impact based on
the original methodology as in the Staff Appraisal Report:
*   Assessment of the economic impact based on the original methodology as in the Staff Appraisal Report
of September 24, 1996.
*   Extracts from "Impact Evaluation of a Rural Road Rehabilitation Project" January 2002, Development
Research Group, World Bank.
* Note prepared by a Summer Intern at the World Bank Hanoi office September 2001 who undertook a
field trip and interview to assess impact of rural road investments. Field Trip to Central Highlands,
July 16-21, 2001 - Brief Note on Household interviews in rural areas on the impact of rural road
investments for the poor
Assessment of the economic impact based on the original methodology as in the Staff Appraisal
Report of September 24, 1996.
Originally the expected economic rate of return was 32.5 percent and the final estimated economic rate of
return was 12.7 percent.
Original expected            Final actual
Economic rate of return      32.5 percent                  12.7 percent
Average rehabilitation costs  US$7,200 /km                 US$10,789
Average routine maintenance  US$ 137/km                    US$275/km
costs
Price of paddy               US$ 0.2 per kg or VND 2,000   US$ 0.13 per kg or VND 1950
(exchange rate 11,018)        (exchange rate 15,000)
Yield of paddy, ton per hectare  3.5 ton per hectare       3.5 to 4.1 ton per hectare
The initial justification for the project was based on the producer surplus method assuming that the benefits
from improved roads and lower transport costs would contribute to a gradual increase in paddy production
of 1 percent per year. The method also assumed that in the with project scenario there would be a reduction
in losses in the transport of agricultural produce of 2 percent. At the time of appraisal in 1996 this method
was giving an EIRR of 32.5 percent in the base case assuming average road investment costs of US$7,200
per km, routine maintenance costs of US$137 per km, the price of paddy of US$ 0.2 per kg or VND
2,000 (exchange rate 11,018) and a yield of 3.5 ton per hectare. The sensitivity analysis revealed that the
roads would remain economically viable if investment costs increased to US$15,000 per km.
At completion in 2002, an economic evaluation was undertaken for the rural roads following as closely as
possible the original appraisal procedures. On that basis the re-estimated EIRR fell to 12.7 percent. The
lower than expected EIRR is because of lower than expected paddy revenues and higher than expected
rehabilitation and routine maintenance costs. The full cost benefit analysis at appraisal and the ex-post
economic analysis are included below.
-40 -



Lower paddy revenues were a result of lower prices for paddy, in 2002 the paddy price had fallen to US$
0.13 per kg or VND 1950 (exchange rate 15,000) but the yield increased from 3.5 to 4.1 ton per hectare
with the overall effect that incomes fell by 24 percent. These changes in yield and price resulted from
various policy reforn measures which took place between 1999 and 2001 resulting in liberalization of
agricultural markets. The policy reform was principally related to the easing of restrictions on export
quotas to non-state farms and the removal of quantitative import restrictions on items such as fertilizer.
Higher than forecast average rehabilitation costs of US$10,789 per km and higher routine maintenance
costs of US$275 per km also pushed down the EIRR. Rehabilitation costs were higher because of a
reluctance by the Provincial Departments of Transport to adopt the spot improvement approach to creating
basic vehicle access which was originally proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report. Throughout the project
there was a tendency to push for higher, and therefore more expensive, standards as a way of reducing the
maintenance burden. However, the reality is that there is no such thing as a maintenance free road and the
higher design standards also pushed up the routine maintenance costs. Given this situation the current
rehabilitation cost threshold of US$15,000 per km would appear to be too high if there is to be an economic
case.
This analysis tells us very little about the likely economic viability of these types of road because we are
unable to distinguish the actual impacts from the road from wider economic forces at play. For this reason
intemational best practice today would recommend use of the consumer surplus approach which is focused
much more on benefits to traffic, whether motorized or non-motorised, and on the social benefits associated
with improved access to essential services such as schools and health centers. The consumer surplus
approach is also able to capture the benefits from creating year round access which is a substantial source
of both economic and social benefits and has been a key component of this project.
For future projects of this type it is important that traffic count data is collected on a regular basis. This
should include motorized and non-motorised traffic (including pedestrians), seasonal variations in traffic
flow and basic tariff information for goods and passengers. This information is not only important for
monitoring and evaluation purposes but also for planning future maintenance priorities. Although the
Government does not collect any traffic counts on these roads at the moment the individual provincial
reports provided as part of the ICR report preparation (and annexed) show that in fact there were some
provinces undertaking traffic counts; for example, Bac Kan province shows increases in traffic on Sau Hai
to Nong Thuong road from 250 motorcycles to 400 motorcycles per day; on the 15 km Phung Vien -Bang
Phuc road there was an increase from 0 trucks to 23; and from 8 motorcycles to 80.
The current producer surplus methodology also makes it difficult to make comparisons between the impacts
of certain investments across sectors. For example, if a district has been identified as having poor access to
health facilities, decisions at a local level have to be made on the most cost effective interventions to
improve access. Options may include building better quality road infrastructure or locating health centers
closer to population centers.
For making these types of decisions a simple cost effectiveness criteria may be applicable which looks at
the costs of the investment according to the affected population. For example, based on the average
population per kilometer of road of 312, as defined in the RTP 1 PAD, and the final average cost of the
investments of $11,000, the infrastructure represents a cost per capita of US$35. When compared to per
capita public expenditure on health of US$5.8, infrastructure would appear to be an expensive option. It is
obviously not possible to make direct comparisons between the relative merits of health and transport in
this way but it does provide a way in which alternative investments can be assessed. This type of approach
would be useful to develop in future projects
- 41 -



SOaALIST FEPUBUC OF VIET NAM
Rural Transpodt Pioect
Ewnnlic Cost Bandft Analsis at Apprabal
Base Case Scenado br Spt Improvenent f Dlstaict Road
Assurn,pdons                                                                             Beneflts                               Production Ionease
(cuulativa %) USIYVea
Area of Diret Influence                     227  Hedare                                  Pnoducton hcmases
Proporlon Cul8vable                       0 333                                          year 1                                         0        0
Cufvated Amea                                76  Hedrwe                                  year 2                                       0.01     530
YbId                                        35   TonMHacare                              year 3                                       0.02     1059
SelingCostB                                 02   USU$K                                   year4                                        003     1589
Vatue of Produdilon                     $52,987  USS                                     year 5                                       0 04    2119
Pcpulathn                                   307                                         y,vatrtoDI                                    005     2648
ProduslkaCap8a                             $173  USS
Invesrnent Cost fbr Spot Improsenent    $7,200   US$SIQn
Routine btintenance                       $137   US$fln                                  Reduction of loses                           0.02     1059
Sensitivity Analysis
ooatIneasato$15000/mn                     cost increase $15.000hnk                        cost incrase to $2000
Base Case                                                               beneflb redured by 25%
Year
Cost     Benefits     Nat Beneflts        Cost     Beneflts  Net Beneflt            Cost         Benefib      Net Benefits           Cost    Benefits
1   $7.200           0     47,200            $15000        0    415.000                     $15,000           0 415,000                 $20.000       0
2    $137          1589     $1,452             $137      1589     $1,452                      $137        $1.192   $1,055                 $137      1589
3    $137          2119     $1,982             $137      2119     $1982                      $137        $1,589   51.452                 $137     2119
4    $137          2648     $2,511             $137      2648     $2,511                      $137        $1,988   $1.649                 $137      2648
6    $137          3178     $3,041             $137      3178     $3,041                      $137        S2,384   $2,247                 $137      3178
6     $137         3708     $3,971             $137      3708     $3,571                      $137        $2,781   $2.844                 $137      3708
7     $137         3708     $3,571             $137      3708    S,571                       $137        $2,781   $2,644                 $137      3708
8     $137         3708     $3,571             $137      3708     $3,571                      $137        $2,781   $2,644                 $137      3708
9     $137         3708     $3,571             $137      3708     $3,571                      $137       $U781     $2,644                 $137      3708
10    $137         3708      $3,571             $137     3708      $3,571                     $137         S2,781   $2,844                 $137     3708
11    $137         3708      $3.571             $137     3708      $3,571                     $137         $2,781   $2,644                 $137     3708
NPV (12%)           $7,791                                 $827                                           -$2,901
IRR                32.485%                              13282%                                             7.115%
-42 -



SOCIALIST FEPUBUC OF VIET 11.M
Rural Transport Pmec
Ex.PPst Econunicb Ost Benefit An*,yst
Base Case Sonanrto for Spot hMno nnent of DWlt Road
Assunfsp                                                                      Benrft                            Pndudrton biouse
(Cunadtve %) uSSIeaw
Area of DhlrInfluene                  227 Hedae                               Production hsase
Prapoutbin Cultwbie                  0.333                                    year 1                                   0       0
Culivated Area                         76 Hecare                              year 2                                 0.01    403
Ybied                                  4.1 Tord/Hedare                        year 3                                 002     807
SeFing Costs                          0.13 USS$)f                             year4                                  0.03   1210
Vabe ofProdurdon                   $40.33  USS                                year5                                  0.04    1613
Po,utton                              307                                     year8to 11                             0.05   2017
PrdudbWCupita                        $131 USS
Avg. nwestrrent Cost (ehabtltotin)  S10.789  USSIIQn
Routine bintenanm                    $275  USSIlQn                            Reduction of hus                       0.02    807
Sesinity Anah, lib
costIme to 61 5000/kmn               coal lrosn  S15,0Otn                       wost geaa to S2000
Base Case                                                      benefits reduced by25%
Year
Coat    Benefits   Net Benefts       Cost   Benefts Net Benefn           Coat        Be_efi      Net Benelts        Coat    Bnefit
1 S10.789          0   410.789         $15.000      0   415.000                 $15,0i00        0 415.000              S20,000     0
2    $275       1210      $935           $275    1210      $935                   $275         907    6833               $137    1210
3    S275       1613     $1,338          S278    1613    S1,338                   $275        1210    S935              $137     1613
4    6275       2017     S1.742          S275    2017    S1,742                   6275        1512   61.27              S137    2017
5    8275       2420     62.145          6275    2420    S2.145                   $275        1815   61.540              6137    2420
6    $275       2823     $2,548          $275     2823   $2.548                   6275        2117   1.8042              6137    2823
7    $275       2823     $2.548          $275     2823   $2Z548                   $275        2117   $1,842              $137    2823
8    6275       2823     V2,548          6275    2823    $Z548                    6275        2117   S1.842              $137    2823
9    6275       2823     S2.548          S275    2823    S2.548                   6275        2117   S1.842              6137    2823
10   $275        2823     62.548          $275    2823    s2.548                   6275        2117  $1.842              6137     2823
11   $275        2823    $2.548           $275    2823    62Z548                   $275        2117  $1,42              6137     2823
NPV (12%)          6333                           43,427                                     46.200
IRR             12.715%                           6.195%                                     0428%
Extracts from "Impact Evaluation of a Rural Road Rehabilitation Project" January 2002,
Development Research Group, World Bank.
Data: This study uses the "Survey of Impacts of Rural Roads in Viet Nam" (SIRRV), a panel data set of
pre-project baseline and post-project data for both project ("treatment") and non-project ("comparison
group") areas that was especially created for the evaluation. A baseline was collected in the spring of 1997
in 200 randomly sampled communes in 6 participating provinces. A second round followed in the spring of
1999, a third in 2001, and a fourth will follow in 2003.
The survey instrument consists of a detailed commune level survey, a household survey administered to 15
randomly sampled households in each sampled comrnune, a short district level survey and a project data
base. To determine the household sample, a system of stratified sampling was used whereby 5 households
were chosen from each of three lists, containing the poorest, middle and richest thirds of all households in
the commune. The lists were based on a welfare ranking done by the commune authorities. This should
assure a sample that is reasonably representative of each commune's main socio-economic groups.
Evaluation methods: The general methodological approach is in the tradition of double differencing with
matching methods. Propensity score matching (PSM) methods are used to select ideal comparison
communes from among the one hundred sampled non-project communes. PSM basically tries to find a
non-project commune that is similar in all observable characteristics to the project commune except that it
does not have a project. This is the counterfactual. It does this by comparing the propensity scores - the
probability of a commune getting a project - of project and non-project communes and picking the closest
-43 -



match for each commune.
The impact of the road infrastructure is then identified by the difference between outcomes in the project
areas after the program and before it, minus the corresponding outcome difference in the matched
comparison areas. This "matched double difference" estimate gives an unbiased estimate of project impacts
in the presence of unobserved time invariant factors influencing both the selection of project areas and
outcomes.
To get at the heterogeneity of households within communes, a second matching of households in project
communes with households in the matched comparison commune is implemented. The VNLSS is used to
estimate a consumption model on variables available in both data sets. The coefficients are then used to
predict consumption for SIRRV households and rank them into national consumption expenditure groups.
This allows a differentiation of impacts by welfare level.
Project targeting: It should be noted that since the non-project communes were chosen specifically to be
as similar as possible to the project communes, they can not be used to assess project targeting. This
would require a nationally representative random sample of communes to see whether those selected to
receive the project differ in systematic ways.
However, by combining the SIRRV household data with that of the nationally representative 1998 VNLSS
as described above, we can say something about where in the distribution of national welfare the population
represented by the SIRRV household sample in project communes falls. This also allows us to make some
inferences about the project communes.
The last column of Table 2 shows the distribution across national population deciles of baseline SIRRV
(project commune) households weighted by household size and ranked by their predicted per capita
expenditures. This can be compared to the distribution of Viet Nam's rural population in the third column.
The table shows that a greater percentage of the SIRRV population is found in the bottom deciles and the
incidence of poverty is higher at 47.5 percent compared to 40.2 for the total rural Vietnamese population
and 32.9 for Viet Nam as a whole. So, there are definite signs of project targeting to areas with poorer
population groups.
That said, the project is also likely to benefit some wealthier households. Indeed, instead of asking how the
project has performed in reaching poor households compared to what one would expect with a random
distribution across the overall rural population, one might ask how much better it might have done by
targeting the poorest communes. Suppose, for example, that the project had aimed to target communes
with the lowest mean consumption. To test this, we identify rural communes in the VNLSS with the lowest
mean household per capita consumption and covering around 40 percent of the rural population which is
the rural poverty rate. How well one reaches poor households through targeting poor areas depends on the
heterogeneity and inequality within those areas. Column 3 gives the weighted distribution of households
living in those communes. The incidence of poverty at 65 percent is evidence of substantial though not a
complete concentration of poor households. Geographical targeting would still lead to 35 percent leakage
to the non-poor. But, contrasting with column 4 in Table 2, it is clear that the project could have done a
whole lot better from the point of view of reaching poor households by better targeting the poorest areas.
Of course, whether or not rehabilitating roads in these areas would have the greatest impact on poverty is a
different question.
Commune level Impacts: Tables 7 to 12 provide matched double difference estimates of impact at
commune level for a varied set of outcome indicators. Under our assumptions, these estimates reflect
-44 -



causal effects of the road rehabilitation. In looking at the results, however, it is important to keep two
caveats in mind. First, remember that little time has elapsed since most projects were completed. It is only
15 months on average (ranging from a minimum of 6 to a maximum of 20 months) between project
completion and the start of data cotlection. Second, our sample is relatively small at 25 communes with
completed projects, and only 22 matched commune pairs.
All (double difference) impact estimates represent the before and after mean change in the outcome variable
in the project communes over and above the before and after mean change in the matched non-project
communes. The tables also present the breakdown of this impact into the change that occurred over time in
the project and non-project comparison communes separately. One or two stars indicate whether each
change is significantly different from zero (at the 5 and 10 % significance levels respectively). In the
discussion below, we focus on the statistically significant impact estimates.
The impacts reported in Table 7 are related to kilometers of rural roads in the commune and missing
bridges. Note that "rural" roads refers to commune as well as district level roads that pass through the
commune. There was a reduction in the percentage of project communes with missing bridges. However,
the reduction was larger in the non-project communes producing an overall net impact of 4.5 percent more
communes with missing bridges. Kilometers of all weather paved roads and earth roads due to either new
construction or rehabilitation have each increased by 2 km on average more in the project than in the
matched comparison areas, while the length of paved, sometimes impassable, rural roads has declined
relatively. There are also significant positive impacts on the kilometers of paved all weather and sometimes
impassable communal roads that were rehabilitated over the past two, relative to the prior two years.
Indeed, the bulk of the gain in paved all-weather roads occunred in the last two years.
By contrast, the results indicate a considerable reduction in efforts to rehabilitate earth roads in the project
compared to the non-project communes. During the last two years, around six and four kilometers less of
all weather and sometimes impassable earth roads were rehabilitated in the intervention compared to the
comparison communes. These results suggest that the Bank's project caused a shift in road rehabilitation
efforts from earth roads to paved roads within project communes. A plausible interpretation for this is that
labor resources for rehabilitation are fixed within communes and what the project provides is the extra
money needed for non-labor inputs.
So, we can reject a case of extreme fungibility. The govemment could have simply cut its own road
spending, with little net gain in project communes relative to non-project communes. However, the results
of Table 7 clearly indicate that the project has had impact on road quality in the selected communes. This
extemally financed road project does appear to have achieved its immediate aims, though possibly at the
cost of a switch away from earth road rehabilitation. But are there signs of impacts on living standards?
Table 8 tums to transport-related variables. We find... .We find that there was a nine percent increase in
access to freight transport services as a result of the project. However, no impact on passenger transport
services can be attributed to the project. Still, the occurrence of daily bus service has risen (though not
significantly so), and 'other' daily passenger services (boat, horse cart or railroad) are now available in five
percent more of the project relative to the comparison areas. By contrast, the daily availability of two or
three wheel motorcycle service shows a significant reduction in 13 percent of project communes relative to
the comparison group. This may well reflect substitution to cheaper altematives such as horse cart or bus
service, that were not previously feasible due to the bad road condition. Furthermore, it is also highly
probable that there has been substitution with freight transport services that allow transport of people along
with their produce or belongings. The percentage of project communes reporting that bad road conditions
act as an important constraint to communication between households and participation in the activities of
-45 -



the mass organizations has declined, and the percentage now saying that road conditions present only
minor, or no problems, has risen. However, similar patterns are evident in the non-project communes too,
with the one exception of the percentage saying that road conditions cause small problems which has
declined.
We would expect rapid impact on the time it takes to get to key destinations as long as they remain
fixed. It will simply be faster to get anywhere the road can be used to get to. Reductions in travel time
may also occur due to facilities and services relocating closer to the commune center as a direct result of
better access. However, the opposite can also happen -- facility relocation after the road improvement may
increase travel times. This is more plausible for some things than for others. A small stall, set up as an
outlet of a larger store elsewhere, can more easily relocate than a health clinic, say. Some "facilities" (such
as natural resources) cannot relocate.
The impact results on the time taken to various destinations given in Table 9 are mixed. (Note that
the impacts here are averaged over zeroes when the facility or service is located in the commune center.)
Access to the forest for the collection of firewood appears to have become less time-consuming. In
response to whether the average time needed has risen, stayed the same or fallen, the percent of communes
claiming a rise dropped by 36% more in the project communes, while those claiming no change or a fall,
rose by 27 and 5 percent more.
There is an impressive and statistically significant decline in the time required to reach the closest
provincial hospital by the most common transport mode in case of a serious injury. This declined by 46
minutes over and above the decline in comparison communes as a result of the rehabilitated roads. There
are also significant time gains in walking to the closest pharmacy.
In contrast, the time needed to reach a shop selling food and/or consumer goods has increased. The
latter effect is significant and high at three-quarters of an hour longer. This overall effect can be
decomposed into a large reduction in time in the comparison communes as a result of stalls setting up there,
and essentially no change in the project communes. This is puzzling but can perhaps be explained in the
following way. The road improvements may have led to more food stalls opening up in some communes,
while some moved away in other communes because it is now much faster to reach more distant but better
shops by motorcycle or bicycle, say, even though walking there still takes a long time. Imagine, for
example, a small trader who lived off periodically transporting a few essential commodities to be sold for a
profit in the village. He may be driven out of business now that the bigger and better store is more
accessible due to the road improvement. Related to the time taken to facilities is their availability. Table
10 presents impacts on the presence of various services in the commune. Overall, we see either no impact
(or insignificant negative impact) or significant positive impacts on the availability of different services in
the project relative to the comparison communes due to the roads. For example, there are no discernible
first-round impacts on the presence of a post-office, food shops, or bicycle repair shops. Against that, 14%
more communes have pharmacies, and credit from the Agricultural Bank of Viet Nam is available to
households in 18 percent more communes, as a result of the road rehabilitation. There is no impact on the
availability of Bank for the Poor branches or credit, or of other credit sources, however. On a priori
grounds, it is not clear how better roads will affect employment opportunities for porters, and so far, no
impacts are found either way. Finally, project communes got more of an increase in other government
infrastructure development programs during the last two years. This could indicate that it is now easier to
provide or implement other infrastructural investments given the newly rehabilitated road. Altematively, it
might be evidence that one intervention attracts another kind of extemality effect. We cannot tell which it
is. One would expect better roads to alter mobility and migration pattems as well as income earning
opportunities and levels of off-farm diversification. Is there evidence of any early impacts on employment
-46 -



and livelihood patterns? Table 11 reveals a small but significant increase attributable to the road project of
3.3 percentage points in the share of commune households that engage in non-farm activities. The change
in the percent of households adopting primary livelihood activities outside agriculture is also positive
though not significantly different from zero. The results also suggest a small (0.8%) but statistically
significant negative impact on temporary out migration of labor during the last, relative to the previous
year, though no impact on workers temporarily coming to work inside the commune. This could presage a
rise in local employment opportunities or may be connected to the increased availability of work related to
the road project.
Table 12 looks at changes in a few consumer durables and production-related tools. Impacts on
these variables from better roads can be expected eventually through both easier availability and lower
prices, and higher household living standards. The projects had no impact on the percentage of households
building new homes. These wealth effects will no doubt take more time to materialize. There are,
however, significant positive impacts on the percentage of households owning radio cassette players and
bicycles. Telephones per capita have declined a little. One could argue that since poor roads provide one
incentive for having a phone, and since that incentive is now gone, the result is not counter to expectations.
At any rate, it may be too early for impacts on most consumer durables.
We also fnd significant positive impacts on the per capita availability of threshers and boats used
for productive purposes in the communes. Looking at the availability of rental markets for productive
equipment in the communes, however, we find no significant impact on either water pump or cattle rentals
that can be attributed to the road projects.
Household level impacts
In all cases, reductions in time are larger for the poorest group. For example, whereas the change
in the time taken to walk to the closest road passenger transport has gone down by ten minutes overall, the
reduction is of 36 minutes for the bottom 40 percent. The time taken to walk to the closest post office has
decreased by close to 30 minutes more for the poorest.
The larger time impact results for the poorest group of households suggest that in communes where
a majority of poorer households reside, the road rehabilitation brought a greater improvement than in the
communes where richer households live. Because roads were in relatively worse condition and there was
generlly a greater need for the project investment in the poorer communes, impacts on time have been
commensurately larger there. The fact that a concentration of the bottom 40 percent of households come
from a limited set of communes (8 of the 22 communes each contain 6 or more of the poorest households)
provides some backing for this interpretation.
Table 15 reports on some occupation related impacts. We fnd a 5 percent increase in the percent
of households reporting that some of their members temporrily left to look for work over the last year as a
result of the project. The impact is similar across income groups. It should be noted that these findings
appear to contradict those for the commune level (Table 11) which found a small reduction of 0.8 in the
percentage of the population leaving temporarily in search of work. However, the reliability of this
particular type of informnation is undoubtedly better when gathered at the household than at the commune
level.
Table 15 also indicates significant increases in the number of person days (close to 7) hired by
project commune households overall for help in the family farm, and a concomitant drop in agricultural
labor days sold by households in the project areas. The latter reduction was larger for the poorest at 7 less
days compared to 2 less for the overall sample. Households also reduced the labor days sold to off-farm
-47 -



businesses in the trade and services sectors, though they increased the number of wage labor days to
industry and cottage industries by almost the same amount. The latter are likely to pay a better wage than
either unskilled farm or trade and services work. The road may have made agricultural activities much
more profitable, so that households can better afford to leave casual wage employment or be more selective
about it, as well as hire labor from outside the commune. However, labor-related impacts may well be very
volatile for a time after the road rehabilitation and first-round effects may have little bearing on the medium
to longer-term impacts.
Conclusions
This paper presents findings on initial impacts on living standards of a World Bank rural roads
project in Viet Nam. As time passes, more projects will be completed, and larger benefits might emerge
from completed projects. Nonetheless, some notable results emerge from this study.
First, we find that the project was pro-poor in that it reached more poor households than it would
have if it had simply been equally distributed across rural communes. We also find that, in general, the
quality of roads improved in the project communes. Thus, the commune level results reject the extreme
fingibility model of external aid. However, we find evidence of behavioral responses by implementing
agents, notably in the evident switch in road rehabilitation from earth roads to paved roads.
What about impacts on living standards? We find a number of significant effects both at commune
and household level. For example, the road rehabilitation projects significantly increased the availability of
freight services in the project communes, although they had no overall impact on passenger transport. The
time needed to reach the closest hospital in case of a serious injury declined by an impressive three-quarters
of an hour. Against that, there is some evidence of increases in the time needed to reach some shops and
services that can easily relocate. In general, however, there are positive (or non-negative) impacts on the
availability of services in the project communes. In particular, increases in pharmacies, in the availability
of credit from the Agricultural Bank of Viet Nam and in other government development projects were
attributable to the road projects.
The most interesting finding at the household level is that impacts significantly vary across income
groups, and that the strongest impacts were for the poorest households. In particular, although the time
needed to walk to various places declined overall, time savings were more pronounced for the poorest 40
percent of households.
As we have cautioned, these are first-round impacts that may well be volatile and alter as more
time passes since the roads were rehabilitated. In follow-up work we will have more rounds of data which
will allow us to look at a greater variety of outcome variables. Furthermore, given longer time elapsed
between project completion and data collection, we will be able to say more about how short- or long-lived
the impacts we have identified here are destined to be". Unquote.
-48 -



Table 2: The distribution of project commune sample population by national per capita
expenditure deciles
National           VNLSS      VNLSS rural     Population from      SIRRV project
population         national    population     poorest VNLSS      commune population
deciles           population                    communes              sample
1                   10.02         12.6            26.6                  15.9
2                   9.98          12.2             19.4                 15.5
3                   10.0          12.0             15.2                 13.1
4                   10.0          12.0             12.9                 11.1
5                   10.02         11.5             9.4                  10.0
6                   9.99          11.0             7.0                  10.4
7                   10.0          10.2             4.7                  9.5
8                   10.0          8.9              3.3                  8.0
9                   10.01         6.7              1.1                  4.6
10                  9.99          2.9              0.3                  1.9
total (%)            100          100              100                  100
#of h'holds         5999         4269              1534                 1439
Poverty
incidence (%)       32.9          40.2             65.0                 47.5
Note: The SIRRV population sample is ranked by predicted consumption per capita. The poverty
headcounts are calculated using a poverty line based on the cost-of-basic-needs (Glewwe et al. 2000).
-49 -



Table 7: Commune level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching estimator:
Road-related variables
Outcome indicator                                      Change between 1999 - 1997
Project        Comparison       Difference
km of paved, all weather communal roads in       2.659*            0.364           2.296*
commune                                         (0.915)           (0.739)         (0.177)
km of paved, sometimes impassable communal       0.273             1.364          -1.091 *
roads                                            (0.273)          (0.836)         (0.133)
km of earth roads in commune                     -2.936           -5.355           2.418*
(4.195)          (4.899)          (0.972)
km of paved, all weather communal roads          1.991*            0.045           1.946*
rehabilitated during last 2 years               (0.938)           (0.450)          (0.157)
km of paved, sometimes impassable commune         0.591            0.00            0.591*
roads rehabilitated during past 2 years         (0.409)           (0.00)           (0.062)
km of all weather earth roads rehabilitated during  -7.723*       -1.945           -5.777*
past 2 years                                     (2.781)          (1.928)          (0.510)
km of sometimes impassable earth roads          -6.727*           -2.500           -4.227*
rehabilitated during past 2 years                (2.843)          (1.743)          (0.503)
% communes where missing bridge means a boat/    -9.09            -13.64**         4.55*
ferry must be taken to travel to closest urban   (6.27)            (7.49)          (1.47)
center
Note: standard errors are given in parentheses. *indicates significantly different from zero at 5% or lower
level of significance. ** indicates significantly different from zero between 50/6-10% level of significance.
- 50 -



Table 8: Commune level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching
estimator: Transport-related variables
Outcome indicator                                      Change between 1999 - 1997
Project        Comparison       Difference
% communes with passenger transport service       4.55              4.55              0
(14.06)          (14.61)           (3.06)
% communes with daily passenger bus service       4.55              0.00             4.55
(14.61)           (13.74)          (3.02)
% communes with daily passenger taxi/3 wheel      -13.64            0.00           -13.64*
motorcycle service                               (12.27)           (6.43)           (2.09)
% communes with other daily passenger transport   4.55              0.00            4.55*
(boat, horse cart, railway)                       (9.77)           (0.00)           (1.47)
% communes with freight transport service          4.55            -4.55            9.09*
(7.75)           (14.61)          (2.49)
% communes reporting serious problems in         -22.73            -18.18           -4.55
communication and participation in activities of  (14.20)          (14.10)          (3.02)
mass organizations due to bad roads
% communes reporting only minor problems in        4.55             -4.55           9.09*
communication and participation in activities of  (15.40)          (15.40)          (3.29)
mass organizations due to road conditions
% communes reporting that road conditions         18.18            22.73**         -4.55**
present no problem in communication and           (11.57)          (11.94)          (2.51)
participation in activities of mass organizations
Note: standard errors are given in parentheses. *indicates significantly different from zero at 5% or lower
level of significance. ** indicates significantly different from zero between 5°/%-10% level of significance.
- 51 -



Table 9: Commune level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching
estimator: Time taken (including zero time if facility is in commune)
Outcome indicator                              Change between 1999 - 1997
Project         Comparison        Difference
% communes reporting time to collect     -27.27**            9.09            -36.36*
firewood has risen during past 2 years   (14.78)            (15.11)           (3.19)
% communes reporting time to collect      9.09              -18.18           27.27*
firewood is the same during past 2 years  (13.67)           (14.10)           (2.96)
% communes reporting time to collect      18.18              13.64            4.55
firewood has fallen during past 2 years  (13.45)            (13.20)           (2.84)
Time by foot to closest shop that sells   3.43             -40.94*           44.37*
food/consumer goods (min)                (22.72)            (15.56)           (4.34)
Time by foot to closest                   16.69              15.74            0.95
bicycle/motorcycle repair shop (min)     (27.38)            (20.83)           (5.44)
Time by foot to closest pharmacy (min)    0.05               10.13           -10.08*
(28.09)           (15.75)            (5.13)
Time to closest provincial hospital for   -52.66            -7.03            -45.63*
serious injury using most common         (32.73)            (74.86)          (15.81)
transport mode (min)
Note: standard errors are given in parentheses. *indicates significantly different from zero at 5% or lower
level of significance. ** indicates significantly different from zero between 5%-10% level of significance.
- 52 -



Table 10: Commune level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching estimator:
Location of services
Outcome indicator                                   Change between 1999 - 1997
Project       Comparison       Difference
% communes with post-office                    18.18           18.18            0.0
(12.62)         (10.21)         (2.45)
% communes with a stand/shop selling           22.73          27.27**          -4.55
food/consumer goods                           (15.01)          (14.85)         (3.18)
% communes with a bicycle/motorcycle repair    -4.55            0.00            -4.55
shop                                          (14.06)          (14.37)         (3.03)
% communes with a phannacy                      9.09           -4.55           13.64*
(15.37)         (15.27)          (3.27)
% communes with people working as porters      13.64           18.18           -4.55
(15.27)         (15.11)          (3.24)
% communes where Agricultural Bank credit is   -4.55          -22.73**         18.18*
available to households                       (15.01)          (11.94)         (2.89)
% communes where Bank for the Poor credit is    0.00            0.00            0.00
available to households                       (12.93)          (14.37)         (2.91)
% communes where other sources of credit are   13.64            9.09            4.55
available to h'holds (Mass org., nat'l programs,  (15.14)      (15.37)         (3.25)
NGOs, other)
% communes with a Bank for the Poor branch      0.00            0.00            0.00
(8.87)          (6.43)          (1.65)
% communes that had government infrastructure  13.64            0.00           13.64*
development projects during last two years    (14.48)          (8.87)           (2.6)
Note: standard errors of the difference between the means are given in parentheses. *indicates
significantly different from zero at 5% or lower level of significance. ** indicates significantly different
from zero between 5%-10% level of significance.
- 53 -



Table 11: Commune level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching estimator:
Occupational changes
Outcome indicator                                     Change between 1999 - 1997
Project       Comparison      Difference
% h'holds not engaged in any farm activities     0.64           -2.63           3.27*
(1.35)          (3.76)           (0.6)
% h'holds whose main activity is not fanning     1.34            0.14            1.20
(1.58)          (4.96)          (0.79)
Temporary labor out-migration during last year as a  -0.19       0.60           -0.79*
% of population                                 (0.36)          (0.58)          (0.10)
Temporary labor in-migration during last year as a  -0.23        -0.23            0
% of population                                 (0.34)          (0.24)          (0.06)
Note: standard errors are given in parentheses. *indicates significantly different from zero at 5% or lower
level of significance. ** indicates significantly different from zero between 5°/o-10% level of significance.
- 54 -



Table 12: Commune level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching estimator:
Miscellaneous
Outcome indicator                                 Change between 1999 - 1997
Project          Comparison        Difference
% commune households who have built a       -1.57              -1.15            -0.42
house in the last two years                (1.32)              (1.24)           (0.27)
% commune households owning a radio         12.87               10.09           2.78**
cassette player                            (7.45)              (6.54)           (1.49)
% commune households owning a bicycle       9.82                4.99            4.83**
(12.41)            (11.55)           (2.56)
Telephones per capita                      0.0026             0.0073*          -0.0047*
(0.002)            (0.003)          (0.001)
Threshers per household                    0.0409             -0.0170          0.0579*
(0.061)            (0.021)          (0.010)
Sprayers per household                     0.0013              0.0034           -0.0022
(0.010)            (0.003)          (0.002)
Boats per household                        0.0055             -0.0070          0.0125*
(0.007)            (0.010)           (0.002)
% communes reporting availability of        9.09                9.09             0.00
rentals for waterpumps                     (12.86)             (14.31)          (2.90)
% communes reporting availability of        0.00               -4.55             4.55
rentals for cattle for ploughing           (15.37)             (14.06)          (3.14)
Note: standard errors are given in parentheses. *indicates significantly different from zero at 5% or lower
level of significance. ** indicates significantly different from zero between 5%/6-10% level of significance.
- 55-



Table 15: Household-level impact estimates using nearest neighbor matching:
Occupation related variables
Outcome indicator                             Overall          Bottom 40 %
% of households with temporary out-migrants during  4.58*      4.36*
last year                                     (0.1)            (0.4)
Average no. of person days hired in by household to  6.889*    1.682
help with cultivation                         (0.22)           (0.23)
Average no. of person days per household sold as  -0.399*      -2.957*
labor to businesses                           (0.11)           (0.18)
Average no. of person days per h'hold sold as labor  0.099*    2.5330*
to industry/handicraft                        (0.12)           (0.36)
Average no. of person days per h'hold sold as labor  -2.073*   -7.431 *
for cultivation                               (0.19)           (0.40)
Note: Standard errors in parentheses. * indicates statistical significance at 5% level or lower.
- 56 -



Field Trip to Central Highlands, July 16-21, 2001 - Brief Note on Household interviews in rural
areas on the impact of rural road investments for the poor
General summary. This summer I have been working on a literature review of the linkages between
rural infrastructure investments and improving the welfare of the rural poor. The sub-sectors within the
review are energy, irrigation, water supply and sanitation, rural roads and transport, and information and
communication technology. Sources for this literature review have included World Bank and OED
publications, the PRSP Sourcebook, online research (e.g. Transport Newsletter/DFID, evaluations of
infrastructure work by UN agencies, academic journals, etc.), and publications from the VDIC.
To supplement this desk research, I traveled to the Central Highlands to conduct household interviews
over the course of five days and met with households and community leaders in project areas receiving
investments for rural road rehabilitation as part of Rural Transport I and II, and unimproved sites. This
research was facilitated by the Ministry of Transport Project Management Unit 18 (PMU-1 8) in Hanoi,
and the provincial PMU offices and staff in Kontum and Buon Ma Thuot.
This note describes what was accomplished on the trip, gives initial impressions from the data collected,
and shares anecdotal examples of households in two provinces of the Central Highlands. A formal write-up
of the findings from the field trip and including stand-alone personal stories from the households will be
included in the final report I will submit at the end of the summer.
What was accomplished?
Afternoon of July 16 and morning of July 17, Kontum, Gia Lai Province. I met with the Vice Chief
and Supervising Engineer from the Provincial Project Management Unit No. 08 in Kontum and learned
about rural road investment activities in the area. We discussed and agreed on a plan for the research in
Gia Lai Province, July 16-17: visit to two villages, one on the rehabilitated road from Kontum to Ngok Reo
and one on an unimproved road.
Interviews. On July 16th I met with the village leader from Konk Banh, a village on the rehabilitated
road (randomly selected - i.e. we stopped the car in a village and asked the village chief if interviews could
be conducted). This village was the only one that was an ethnic minority village from those selected for
interviews. All others where interviews were conducted were Kinh, or mainly Kinh villages. In Konk
Banh, I spoke with the village chief, a very poor woman, and two youth of the village. N.B. that the
description of the household's economic status (very poor, poor, average, comfortable, well-off) is in
comparison to their commnunity and self-defined. In the cases where the status they gave themselves
matched my impressions from observation, that is the status noted. Where the status they gave themselves
seemed inaccurate, this is qualified or noted as questionable.
The village chief noted the following benefits for the village due to the road improvement: rise in income
because farmers are able to sell more at higher prices; getting food from Kontum was easier and going to
the market was easier; those with means of transportation found it easier to get around, and women were
now able to use bicycles more easily, whereas in the past the poor road conditions posed a sort of health
hazard; children benefited in that they were able and began to gather in a group and go to town (Kontum)
together.
The poor woman, on the other hand, noted that her family had not really benefited from the road in
economic terms, though it was nice that the road was not rough anymore for biking. Thiek and her
husband are farmers on a small plot of steep, gravelly land. They support 7 children (1 has already
married and left the household). Though last year they were fine, this year their income is unstable because
- 57 -



of the low productivity of their land and their lack of money to buy fertilizer. (There are no credit options
available to her.) It is likely that this household saw little economic benefit from the road because they did
not spend money on transport and their farm was of a very small scale. The youth (two boys) noted that
transportation was easier, and they enjoyed watching people that passed on the road and going to Kontum.
July 17th I met with the village chief of Village 7 of Hoa Binh Commnune, south of Kontum. The initial
portion of the road leading to this village had been improved with World Bank funds in 1997; but the road
actually near/through the village had not received improvements through a particular project. However, we
learned that the road had been maintained to some extent as a result of the establishment of a rubber
plantation in the area (1996). The village also benefited from an irrigation project nearby, completed in
2000. In this village, I interviewed three male farmers (one better-off, one poor farmer, and one unclear), a
husband and wife (very poor, farmers). One respondent felt that compared to 5 years ago, the village was
better offbecause of the rubber plantation which brought jobs and road improvements. The village also
benefited from agriculture trainings provided by the government about 2-3 times/year, for the past two
years. This has helped them improve their methods of farming and decide what kdnd of crops to grow.
They village also was better off because they now have electricity and a health care center.
A husband and wife interviewed noted that their family was no better off now, as the husband recently had
a motorbike accident The cost of hospital care and his consequent inability to work significantly impacted
their level of income. When I asked what would help raise the famnily's welfare, the husband noted that
credit would help, but the condition of his household's welfare was related to his disability more than
anything else, and since he has been ill he has been unable to consider how to improve their condition. This
couple also noted that the fact that the land was less productive now hurt them.
The third male farmer noted that the village was very dependent on the nearby forest and business with
ethnic minorities living 20 km away on this road. He said that when the rubber plantation came there were
promises for the provision of jobs to the villagers. However, the plantation now uses pesticides, workers
for weeding are no longer necessary, and there is a problem with unemployment He noted the need for
credit, and said that the money could be used to invest in raising livestock (which he felt appropriate for the
area) or in renting more fertile land from ethnic minorities.
July 18-20, Buon Ma Thuot (BMT), Dak Lak Province.
July 18. Again in this province I met with the local PPMU office and received invaluable support from the
staff. I learned of rural road investments in the area, and a plan for the three days in Dak Lak was
discussed. Originally, the plan was to interview project beneficiaries from rural road investments
completed in 1999-2000 in three areas (distance of 15km, 40km, and 100kmn from BMT, all commune-link
or commune roads) and respondents from unimproved sites in those same areas, having a similar distance
to the national road as their corresponding project road. The distances were selected to try to also consider
whether the distance to a large city affected the level of benefits/household welfare. The schedule was
modified on the second day, July 19, per the Vice Chief of the PPMU's concem about security issues.
I was accompanied by a PPMU representative to all interviews and World Bank Task Assistant Nguyen
Thi Minh Hoa provided translation and research assistance in the interviews on July 18-20.
The first day in Dak Lak Province, July 18, we met with the village chief in a project area, where coffee
farming was the primary livelihood. He noted the following benefits from the road improvement: prices
for goods were lower - same price in the village as in the commune center; education was improved
because traveling troupes (e.g. for family planning awareness campaigns) were now able to access the
village and no longer had to turn back at the bridge leading to the village in the rainy season; children were
- 58-



able to get to the secondary school and back home (instead of having to stay at the school overnight in bad
weather); security was improved because the road accessibility enabled problems to be settled more
quickly.
In this village we interviewed a male farmer (poor) and a female wage laborer (farming, very poor) who
also raised pigs to generate income (interviewed independently). Both felt their situations were the same as
compared to before the road rehabilitation. The male farmer felt the village was better off but apart from
improved convenience in getting around, his family did not really benefit. Both respondents noted their
dependence (and that of the village) on the price of coffee, which we leamed had dropped from 20,000
VND/kilo to 10,000 VND/kilo to 5,000 VND/kilo in the past three years. (Some farmers we spoke to were
receiving as little as 3,000 VND/kilo for their coffee.) The female wage laborer noted that her income was
also very dependent on coffee prices and when labor was needed for coffee picking or weeding. She told us
that the money she has spent on raising the three pigs she bought (e.g. special pig food/powder) would not
be covered by the price she can get for them now (price of meat also fluctuates). However, she would
likely still sell one pig soon because her family's living standard has been so bad.
Both interviewees were more or less single-headed households in that the male farmer's wife was mentally
ill and could not contribute to the family income (but did care for the children and do housework) and the
female wage laborer never married, but had three daughters.
Another notable point is that for several of the interviews poor ventUlation/smoke Inhalation in the house
was significant. (I would estimate that half the interviews took place indoors, half outdoors.) Cooking
using firewood in another room of the house made breathing very difficult; yet, the household members did
not seem to be affected by this.
On July 19 we were told that due to security concerns we had to shorten our proposed plan of research by
one day, to make the 19th the last day for interviews. After some discussion, with the assistance of Vu
Hong and a call to the PMU/Hanoi office to sort out whatever confusion there was, the compromise was
made to continue interviews until the morning of July 20 (until noon), but not to have interviews for the full
day of the 20th. So essentially, just a half day was lost. We revised the schedule to visit the project site
50km away on July 19, and to return to the 1st area on the morning of July 20 to speak with households in
an unimproved area.
The morning of July 19 was spent in Ea Quang Commune. We met with the local authorities and heard
from them some benefits from the road rehabilitation, including year-round access, elimination of health
hazard from dusty roads, and mobility (e.g. children to/from school). They noted however, that the road
was designed for light traffic and the wear on the road was accelerated by the heavy trucks that used the
road from a neighboring commune, carrying bricks and sand to the national road. They are now
considering options on how to manage this, e.g. through charging a toll on the road. The commune was
very thankful to the Bank for the road investment because the local people wanted to rehabilitate the road
but had limited funds. With the Bank support and the people's contribution, they were able to upgrade
their road to an asphalt (stone + bitumen) road. Some accidents have occurred due to the increased use of
motorbikes (more households have invested in motorbikes as a result of the road) and the faster speed of
traffic on the road, but we were told that have been minor injuries and there have been no deaths.
One family interviewed in this commune felt the road really been beneficial to them and to the village
overall. They were able to save 1 million VND on transport costs related to their farm. The improved road
motivated them to borrow money from the Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development to buy a truck for
transporting coffee and rice. Also, since the road was less dusty, they could keep their front door open and
- 59 -



felt less cut off from the community. They also could purchase electronic appliances such as a radio and
television without having to worry that the dust from the dirt road would destroy these goods (and they felt
these goods provided an educational benefit). Finally, they noted that the road improved interpersonal
relations between people in the community and their household and their relatives outside of the
community. The easier mobility allowed people to have more social interactions, instead of just staying at
home. Again, this household benefited from a combination of factors beyond the road improvement such as
formal credit eligibility through the Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (which they used) and
diversified income sources (coffee, rice, raising livestock, government salary for the husband's work as
Vice Chair of the Farmers' Association); they were not a poor household.
Another couple interviewed in this commune lived on a parallel road to the improved road, at a very short
distance away, with easy access to the improved road. They suffered from a combination of factors that
have constrained improvements in the family's welfare. First, the husband was very old and could not
contribute to the household income, so his younger wife (he is 62, she, 46) bore full responsibility for the
family (husband, wife, and two daughters). Their eldest daughter fell ill with Japanese encephalitis when
she was 10 months old, which has since affected her memory and ability to function normally. At 14, she
now has some memory, but does not attend school because she feels ashamed to be in school at the lower
level appropriate for her abilities, with much younger children.
The wife works mainly as a wage laborer, so she is vulnerable to lower coffee prices since work is not
available if the coffee growers themselves can not afford to hire workers. They supplement this wage
income by raising chickens to sell; and in the busy months when coffee is picked, even their eldest daughter
is able to supplement the family income by babysitting for children while their parents work on the farm.
This family feels that the road is very convenient for getting around but doesn't see any change in their
economic status as a result of the road, "We were poor [before the road], and we are still poor." One
possible explanation for this is the village's overall dependence on coffee prices. While the cost of basic
goods may have decreased for households due to lower transport prices, the lower coffee prices of recent
years has had a greater effect on households' income levels. Wage laborers in particular, have even less
control over their income, as it depends on whether their services are needed by others. Even in good years,
high demand for their work only exists for 1-2 months out of the year, during coffee harvesting season.
Another explanation why they may see little economic benefit from the road is because they are a poor
household facing multiple challenges: single-source income status; their existing debt burden of 2 million
VND, borrowed informally from neighbors (which has not been used for reinvesting in their farm or
primarily for income generation, but instead to cover daily living expenses); and their recurrent health care
expenses. Fortunately, the family does not have to pay for any ongoing medical treatment for their eldest
daughter. However, their youngest daughter has had an acute throat ailment for some time, and they have
had to go to the health care center 2-3 times per month, incurring expenses for the necessary medicine.
They are happy that since their youngest daughter is only in first grade, since the cost of education at that
level is not prohibitive for them and she is able to attend school. They feel that formal credit (of which they
would borrow an amount lower than 5 million VND) would be extremely valuable to poor households such
as theirs, and they would invest it in raising livestock.
On the final day, July 20, we interviewed households in an unimproved area, in Village No. 15 in Vu Bo
Commune. The most pressing challenges for these families were the vulnerability to weather conditions
and low productivity of the land. In most years the households could not harvest a full crop because of
drought and flooding due to heavy rains which happen yearly. Due to this flooding, families were often
trapped in their homes, or dependent on transport (cost between 500-2,000 VND/RT, depending on the
- 60 -



water level) using the village boat that everyone helped to buy to get from their homes to the market in the
commune center. Ali respondents, and the Vice Chairman of the commune, felt credit was critical for
helping poor households and villagers in general improve their welfare. One woman wanted credit to buy a
pump for watering plant, or raising livestock. The Vice Chainnan also cited irrigation as a pressing need
for the commune, because he felt this land would be good for growing rice, if it were irrigated.
We ended up with all women respondents in this village. One interview was a group interview with three
neighbors. It went very well as women felt very free to express their opinions. Another woman interviewed
in this area felt her household's economic status was the same (very poor) as compared to three years ago.
She felt that the her household would benefit from access to credit, water, and electricity.
Other Points:
It can not be stressed enough that this research can not be generalized to a larger population. However, it
will hopefully be of value to enrich quantitative analyses through stories of experiences and perspectives of
the rural poor. Although some attempt was made to follow a reasonable plan to allow for comparisons
between project beneficiaries and unimproved sites having somewhat similar characteristics, it obviously
would still be inappropriate to draw definitive conclusions from this research regarding the differences
between households in project areas and those in unimproved sites.
- 61 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
2) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. 'of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 conoists, 1.FMS, etc.)         Implementationi Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress"'   Objective
Identification/Preparation
January 10-24,              3   Economist; Infrastructure
1995                            Engineer; Civil Engineer
May 17- June 2,             4   Civil Engineer (3); Infrastructure
1995                            Engineer
September 25                5    Civil Engineer (2); Transport
-October 13, 1995               Engineer; Operations Officer;
Resettlement Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
January 31 -                6   Economist; Civil Engineer;
February 12,                    Transport Engineer;
1996                            Resettlement Specialist;
Operations Officer;
Environment Specialist.
Supervision
February 19 -                5  Transport Engineer; Civil          S             S
March 1,1997                     Engineer; Resettlement
Specialist; Operations
Officer; Disbursement
Officer
October 7 -17,               3  Civil Engineer; Rural Roads        S             S
1997                            Engineer; Operations Officer
January 5-7, 1998           3   Civil Engineer, Participation      S             S
Specialist, Operations Officer
May 11-21, 1998              6   Civil Engineer (2); Transport     S             S
Economist; Sociologist (2);
Financial Management Specialist
September 21-                8   Civil Engineer; Transport         S            HS
October 2, 1998                  Economist (2); Anthropologist;
Social Development Officer,
Financial Management Specialist
(2); Operations Officer
January 18-31,               4   Civil Engineer; Anthropologist;   S            HS
1999                            Disbursement Officer;
Operations Officer
August 11-22,                7   Civil Engineer; Social            S             S
1999 Mid-Term                   Development Specialist;
Review                           Operations Officers (4); Team
Assistant
January 10-21,               7   Civil Engineer, Operations        S             S
2000                             Officer (2); Anthropologist;
Transport Economist;
Resettlement Officer, Team
Assistant
May 17-27, 2000              5   Civil Engineer; Financial         S             S
- 62 -



Specialist; Operations Officer;
Resettlement Specialist; Team
Assistant
October 23-                 6   Sr. Transport Engineer, Sr.      S            S
November 3, 2000                Transport Economist; Operations
Officers (3); Team Assistant
April 17 -26, 2001          S   Sr. Transport Engineer;          S            S
Operations Officers (3); Team
Assistant
ICR
September 10-19,           8    Sr.Transport Engineer, Sr.       S            S
2001                            Transport Specialist,
Operations Officers (3),
Team Assistant, Financial
Management Officer,
Disbursement Analyst
(') Staff:
Stage of Project Cycl  --               AcuaILatest Estimate<mTE1 -     -
_______________________ _ :No. Staffweeks |       US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             57.6                     181.25
Appraisal/Negotiation                  23.4                     130.65
Supervision                          155.28                     348.94
ICR                                    10.0                       25.0
Total                                264.58                     685.84
The above amounts reflect only World Bank administrative budget and exclude one World Bank executed
Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant of Yen 40.8 million (approximately
US$373,006 equivalent) which was used for project preparation. There were no other sources of fimds for
project preparation or implementation.
- 63 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
3Sector Policies                     OH *SUOM ON O NA
Z Physical                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Financial                          OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Institutional Development          0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
C Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction             O H *SUOM O N O NA
El Gender                       O H OSUOM      O N O NA
OI Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM ON O NA
F Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
F Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM O N O NA
-64 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
F Lending                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
 Supervision                                     OHS OS       Ou    OHU
3 Overall                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
0 Preparation                                     OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Government implementation performance           O HS O S     O U   0 HU
S Implementation agencyperformance                O HS O s     0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
- 65 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide-memoires of all World Bank missions.
Project Evaluation Report, September 2000, provided by Ministry of Transport through their technical
asssistance.
- 66 -



,/.i- ,CHN   CHINA
~~  Hot, ~  8                 CHINA
9                                     IET_ETNAM
.~~~Q; C. ihouBn
ofCAMBODIA)
5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,hThailand
So,, L.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~South Ct,,oo
2                   ong Gai                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWn
-0  19 N h        RURAL TRANSPORT
20OPEOPLEtS         ,_        _2lth         hH                  PROJECT                       PROVINCES:
DEMOCRATIC         ,    _         ,20;J on oo            7o7      PROJECT PROVINCES              Lai Chau
0     PROVINCE CAPITALS           3 Lao Cai
NATIONAL CAPITALS           4 Vinh Phu
h) '} -            -     ROADS                       5 Tuyern Quong
6 Ha Giang
v VIENTIANE        4N1,                                   ---+     RAILROADS                   7 Yen Boi
RfVERS              ~~~8 Coo Bang
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES         9 Bac Thai
10 Long Son
Qo\  k  \\stcnog  ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  11 Quang N,nh
12 Ho Bac
13 Hot Hung
H. /   H c14 Ho Toy
15 Hat Phong
t^ /ef24                    16 Thai Binh
17 Hoa Binh
N.ng            ~~18 NornHo
THAILAND                \<                           <\Ncng                            19 Ninh Binh
20 Thonh Hoo
21 Nghe An
22 HoTinh
uong      ~~~23 Quang Binh  ii'-
24 QuongTri
25 Thuo Thien Hue
K.. T.-                   26 QucOng Nam Do Nang
27 Quang Ngai
(&~         29     uth 30 ina     4628 Kon Turn
, \t)       T329 Gia L4ia
30 Binh Dinh
of the31 Phu Yent
32 Dok Lak
32  31          ~~~~~33 Khanh Hoas
Tbon3l Cs    of TheAMBODIA                 fonk MOHoH.                     34 La5m Dang
Thuot               ~~~~35 Ninh Thuan
36 Song Be
Tn.no Thd37 Toy Ninh
38 Dong Noi
39 Binh Thuan
40 Ba Ria-Vung Tau
useondhanounRnasCog-  41 'Ho Cl2i Minh
d pon 38                                                  The U.                     brld Bo0  42 Lang An
43 Tien Giang
n.                          of such                              bou44 Dong Thap
1                                 ~~~~~~~~~~45 An Giang
Lh  Ta.          B               South China       46 Kieni Giong
Sea          47 Can Tho
a'                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48 Vinh Lang
10, Th,~~~~~~~ -p h- bee. p. ~~~~~~~~~49 Ben Tre
by The Wa4d Bank's -t-  .46  h                                        So~~~~~~~~~5 Tra Vmnh
G,vo,p The denomi-otions                                                                     521  in S ai           FMan
ei on this mop do not -ply, an the                            0     0   10    15     0    5      5    iha
port of The World fBoot  Gr-P,                             I     I
ony pidgorot orr the legalC                                           ILMTR
Maisksoo a ny serrimy or any                                            KILOMETERS
of onchbodo,.                   o'"                                                          i'









I   IMAGING
i   Report No.:        23839
1   Type:    ICR



