Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2929 VN
                        Development Credit Agreement
                         (Rural Transport Project)
                                  between
                       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 6, 1997
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2929 VN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 6, 1997, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Affected Person" means a person who on account of the
execution of Part A.1 of the Project had or would have his/her: (a)
standard of living adversely affected; or (b) right, title or
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and
"Affected Persons" means collectively all persons who qualify as an
Affected Person.
     (b)  "Ethnic Minorities" means social groups disadvantaged in the
development process and with social and cultural identity distinct
from those which constitute the predominant ethnic group in Vietnam.
     (c)  "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport, and any
successor thereto.
     (d)  "Operational Manual" means the operational manual for carrying
out Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project, including implementation procedures
and guidelines and road selection criteria, satisfactory to the
Association, and approved by MOT;
     (e)  "PDOT" means the Provincial Department of Transport established
by each of the Project Provinces;
     (f)  "Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Compensation and
Rehabilitation" means the policy adopted by the Borrower pursuant to
the Office of Government Decision No. 5793/KTN dated November 14, 1996
and MOT's Decision No. 3058/KHDT dated November 15, 1996, satisfactory
to the Association, to compensate, resettle and rehabilitate Affected
Persons;
     (g)  "PMU-18" means the project management unit established within
MOT by Decisions Nos. 1675 QD/TCCB-LD and 4071 QD/TCCB dated August 23,
1993 and August 29, 1993, respectively, responsible, inter alia, to
administer road works under the Project;
     (h)  "Project Implementation Division" and the acronym "PID" mean
the unit established in accordance with the provisions referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (i)  "Project Provinces" means the provinces of the Borrower listed
in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, "Part A Provinces" means
the provinces listed under Part A of said Annex, and "Part B Provinces"
means the provinces listed under Part B of said Annex;
     (j)  "Provincial Project Management Unit" and the acronym "PPMU"
mean a unit established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (k)  "RAP" means a Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan,
satisfactory to the Association, approved by the Borrower, for carrying
out the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of each Affected
Person pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such
plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association; and
Page  3
     (l)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty seven
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association, and on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April
15, 2007 and ending October 15, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of  the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOT and the PDOTs
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Operational Manual and the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                              Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Page  5
Borrower, including MOT each of the PDOTs, responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than nine (9) months after the end of
               each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                          Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Project Implementation Division shall have been
established, and its Division Manager appointed, in accordance with
the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the Provincial Project Management Unit for each of the Part
A Project Provinces shall have been established, and its Manager
appointed, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association,
shall have been approved by MOT.
     Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
Page  6
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the provisions of the Policy Framework for
Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation are legally valid
and enforceable in accordance with Vietnamese law.
     Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          State Bank of Vietnam
          49 Ly Thai To Street
          Hanoi
          Socialist Republic of Vietnam
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               VIETBANK                    412248 NHTWVT
               Hanoi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INDEVAS                     248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.             64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
               By /s/ Le Van Bang, Charge d'Affaires
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             30,600,000         95%
(2)  Goods                    1,700,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Consultants'                               100%
     services, training
     and workshops            2,400,000
(4)  Unallocated              3,100,000
                              _________
          TOTAL              37,800,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures under Category 1 of the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule for each road or segments of roads under Part A.1 of the
Project until the Borrower shall have furnished evidence satisfactory
to the Association that the obligations under paragraphs 5(b), 5(c)
and 6(b)(iii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been complied with
in respect of such road or segments of roads.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) all works under contracts costing less than $150,000 equi-
valent; (b) services provided by consulting firms under contracts
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000
equivalent; and (e) training; all under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to: (a)
improve and upgrade access to rural communities to the district and
provincial road networks; (b) develop local capacity to improve the
level of service of low-volume roads, including their maintenance;
and (c) encourage development of local contractors.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  8
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.  Rural Access Roads Rehabilitation
1.   Rehabilitation and improvement of about 3,500 kilometers (km) of
rural district roads and about 1,500km of communal roads in the Project
Provinces, including bridges therein.
2.   Development of a road maintenance management program.
3.   Resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons under
Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B. Institutional Strengthening
1.   Strengthening of the capacity of the Borrower's central and
provincial level road transport departments and agencies for managing
and implementing construction and maintenance of rural roads,
including MOT's capacity to supervise, monitor and evaluate PDOTs'
road construction and maintenance activities, and PDOT's planning,
budgeting and management of road construction and maintenance
activities, through the provision of staff training, development of
a computerized rural roads information system, and development of
technical and performance criteria and standards for construction and
maintenance of rural roads.
2.   Strengthening of the capacity of domestic road contractors to
carry out small contract works through the provision of training,
inter alia, in project management, cost accounting and contract
bidding.
Part C. Study
     Undertaking a rural transport infrastructure investment study to
identify issues related to demand and investment and to develop guide-
lines for future investments in the sector.
                            *      *    *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                          ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                           Project Provinces
     Part A
     Bac Thai
     Thanh Hoa
     Tra Vinh
     Vinh Phu
     Part B
     Ben Tre
     Binh Thuan
     Dak Lak
     Kon Tum
     Ha Giang
     Ha Tinh
     Lai Chau
     Lao Cai
     Minh Hai
     Nghe An
     Soc Trang
                                SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A: General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
     Preference for domestically manufactured goods
2.   For goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, the provisions of para-
graphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereof shall apply
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C, works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Vehicles, motorbikes and equipment estimated to cost less than
$150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of Sections 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Community Participation
     Works required for Part A.1 of the Project and estimated to cost
less than $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$8,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured
under lump-sum fixed-price contracts or unit price contracts, awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified
and registered domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings,
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:   Review by Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issue of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
Page  10
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply to: (a) contracts for goods; (b) the first
three contracts for works to be entered into by each PPMU regardless
of their respective estimated costs and, thereafter, all works under
contracts costing more than $150,000 equivalent; (c) all contracts
for works in forest buffer zones thereof; (d) all contracts for works
in roads and segments of roads requiring a RAP pursuant to paragraph
5(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (e) all contracts for works
in roads and segments of roads within areas occupied by Ethnic
Minorities.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000) equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association;  (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                         Implementation Program
A. Project Management
1.   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times
during the implementation of the Project a Project Implementation
Division within PMU-18, headed by a Division Manager with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Association, and assigned
with such functions, responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to
the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as
shall be required for coordinating, monitoring and supervising the
implementation of the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall ensure that each PDOT shall establish and
thereafter maintain during the implementation of the Project, a
Provincial Project Management Unit, headed by a Director with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and
assigned with such functions, responsibilities, funds and competent
staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the Association, as shall
be required for carrying out Parts A and B of the Project within
their respective Provinces.
Page  11
3.   The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that each
of the PDOTs shall carry out its respective activities under the
Project and, to that end, shall, on a timely manner, make available
to each of the PDOTs the proceeds of the Credit and other funds
allocated for such purposes.
4.   The Borrrower shall, through MOT, adopt and thereafter implement
the Operation Manual. The Borrower further undertakes not to amend,
abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any provision therein
without the prior concurrence of the Association.
B. Selection of Roads under Part A of the Project
5.   (a) The Borrower shall, by August 31 in each year, commencing on
August 31, 1997, furnish to the Association for its concurrence, a
proposed annual work program and budget for Project activities in the
following calendar year, including, a proposed list of roads and
segments of roads to be rehabilitated and improved under Part A.1 of
the Project; provided, however, that roads in forest reserved areas
or traversing forest reserved areas shall not form part of any annual
work program.
     (b) For each such road and segments of roads, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its concurrence:
          (i)  a socio-economic survey  of the Affected Persons and a
               time-bound action plan for asset acquisition,
               compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation or a RAP,
               pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 6(b)(i) and
               (ii) of this Schedule, respectively, for roads or
               segments of roads given rise to Affected Persons;
         (ii)  an environmental impact assessment for roads or
               segments of roads within forest buffer zones thereof,
               including a time-bound action plan for undertaking the
               environmental mitigating measures; and
        (iii)  an Ethnic Minorities development plan for roads or
               segments of roads within areas occupied by Ethnic
               Minorities pursuant to paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
     (c)  Thereafter, the Borrower shall implement such annual work
program, time-bound action plans and RAP, as the case may be, and
development plan(s), as so approved, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
C. Resettlement and Ethnic Minorities
6.   (a)  For purposes of carrying out Part A.3 of the Project the
Borrower shall, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Association, apply the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition,
Compensation and Rehabilitation;
     (b)  To that end, the Borrower shall:
          (i) for those roads or segments of roads giving rise to
              Affected Persons in numbers less than one hundred
              fifty (150), prepare and furnish to the Association
              for its approval a socio-economic survey of the
              Affected Persons together with a time-bound action
              plan and estimated costs for asset acquisition of,
              compensation to, and resettlement and rehabilitation
              of, Affected Persons and, thereafter, carry out such
              time-bound action plan as so approved;
         (ii) for those roads or segments of roads giving rise to
              Affected Persons in numbers of one hundred fifty
              (150) or more, prepare and thereafter furnish to the
              Association for its approval a RAP and, thereafter,
              adopt and implement the RAP as so approved; and
Page  12
        (iii) before the commencement of works on road or segments
              of roads giving rise to Affected Persons, complete the
              provision of asset acquisition of, compensation to,
              and resettlement and rehabilitation of, Affected
              Persons pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs
              6(b)(i) or 6(b)(ii) of this Schedule, as the case may
              be.
7.   The Borrower shall by March 31, 1997,  under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and pursuant to paragraph 1, Section
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, retain an independent agency to:
          (i) undertake the external monitoring and supervision of
              the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project;
         (ii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association
              annual monitoring reports thereof, the first of such
              reports to be furnished by August 31, 1997; and
        (iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association
              a final evaluation report on completion of Part A.3 of
              the Project.
8.   (a) The Borrower shall design and implement the respective Ethnic
Minorities development plan referred to in paragraph 5(b)(iii) of this
Schedule to provide for the informed participation of, and consultation
with, communities with Ethnic Minorities, to ensure that the design and
implementation thereafter of the roads or segments of roads under Part
A.1 of the Project, and the asset acquisition of, and provision of
compensation to, and resettlement and rehabilitation measures to, the
members of such Ethnic Minorities community adequately address the
needs and cultural preferences of such communities.
     (b) Each development plan under paragraph 5(b)(iii) of this
Schedule shall include provisions to retain, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, an independent monitoring agency
with qualified and experienced staff to:
          (i) undertake the external monitoring and supervision of the
              implementation of the said development plan;
         (ii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association
              semiannual monitoring reports thereof; and
        (iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association
              a final evaluation report on completion of the imple-
              mentation of each such development plan.
D. Training
9.   The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the training under the Project
in accordance with training programs acceptable to the Association;
and (b) to that end, by no later than March 31 of each year, commenc-
ing March 31, 1997, furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a proposed time-bound action plan for each such training
program for the forthcoming Borrower's fiscal year, and thereafter,
implement such time-bound action plans taking into account the
Association's comments.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
10.  By December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall, through MOT, establish
and maintain operational procedures, satisfactory to the Association,
to adequately monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Association, progress in the carrying out of the
Project, including, without limitation, the implementation of the
Operational Manual, the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project, and
the impact of the Project on the various communities in the Project
Provinces, in particular those with Ethnic Minorities.
11.  The Borrower shall:
Page  13
     (a)  not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year,
commencing September 30, 1997, furnish to the Association semi-annual
reports on the implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the
Association, including recommendations of actions to be undertaken to
further achieve the objectives of the Project;
     (b)  by March 31, 1998, undertake a review with the Association
to assess the overall implementation of the Project and any proposed
measures resulting from the monitoring and evaluation activities
carried out by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
10 of this Schedule. For such purposes the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association by January 31, 1998, a comprehensive first-
year report of the activities undertaken under the Project; and
     (c)  by March 31, 1999, undertake a mid-term review with the
Association to assess the overall implementation of the Project and
any proposed measures resulting from the monitoring and evaluation
activities carried out by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 10 of this Schedule.  For such purposes the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31, 1998, a
comprehensive report of the activities undertaken under the Project.
F. Studies
12.  For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants with qualifications and experience and terms
of conditions satisfactory to the Association.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
10,000,000.
2.   (a)  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
     (b)  Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the
equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special
Account. The Association may from time to time, by notice to the
Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding
sentence.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
Page  14
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
or deposits into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Association shall, on behalf
               of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
               the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to
               have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Associa-
tion, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished tothe Association 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; and
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
Page  15
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
