 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14779

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Zambia
             Project ID: P071985                                                    Appraisal                 Actual
         Project Name: Road Rehabilitation           Project Costs (US$M):                      380.9                  389.9
                         And Maintenance
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        50                     90
      Sector Board:      Transport                     Cofinancing (US$M):                         0                      0

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                   03/09/2004
                                                                Closing Date:             06/30/2007           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (73%); Urban Transport (17%); Central
                           government administration (7%); Sub-national government administration (2%); Ports;
                           waterways and shipping (1%)
         Theme(s):         Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Infrastructure services for private sector
                           development (25%); Administrative and civil service reform (24%); HIV/AIDS (13%);
                           Participation and civic engagement (13%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Kavita Mathur              Victoria Alexeeva       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 Original objectives
According to the Development Credit Agreement dated March 22, 2004 (Schedule 2, page 20), the project’s
development objectives were to support the Borrower in implementing the first three years (2004-07) of the Second
Roads Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP II) including :
    (a) preserving its public core road network;
    (b) development of adequate institutional capacity for effective, efficient, equitable and sustainable management
    of the public road infrastructure, and road safety;
    (c) extension of urban and rural transport infrastructure and services for increased accessibility; and
    (d) extension of community transport infrastructure.
The Project Appraisal Document (page 3) describes the project development objectives as:
    (a) The preservation of the public core road network in support of sustainable economic growth and
    diversification strategy;
    (b) The development and then maintaining of institutional capacity for the efficient, equitable and financially
    sustainable management of the public road infrastructure and road safety;
    (c) The extension of urban and rural transport infrastructure and services for increased accessibility, and
    (d) The extension of local community involvement in the management of selective road infrastructure as well as
    in prioritization of investments.
This Review is based on the project development objectives as stated in the Development Credit Agreement.

Revised objectives
According to the Financing Agreement dated December 23, 2010 (Schedule 1, page 5), the objectives of the project
were to support the Recipient in implementing ROADSIP II including:
     (a) development of the institutional capacity for sustainable management of public road infrastructure and road
     safety;
     (b) preservation of road assets in targeted transport corridors; and
     (c) rehabilitation and construction of targeted transport infrastructure.

The project was phase 1 of the Adaptable Project Loan (APL) designed to be implemented over ten years in three
phases, with the overarching objective to stimulate economic growth and contribute to poverty reduction through
investments in road infrastructure, adequate institutional and policy reforms, and enhanced road sector management
(PAD, p.3). Phase 2 (P106596) was approved in October 2009 for the IDA credit of US$75 million, and currently
scheduled to close in April 2016, about two years behind the original date.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/14/2010

c. Components:
 Original Components
The project consisted of four components:
Component 1: Civil Works for Road Maintenance , Upgrading and Rehabilitation (appraisal cost US$ 283.78 million,
with IDA financing of US$43.50 million, First Additional Financing (AF1) of US$17.3 million, Second Additional
Financing (AF2) of US$15.0 million; actual cost (n/a); actual IDA cost US$75.80 million). This component was
designed to focus on the priority civil works needs for road maintenance and rehabilitation for the period of 2004-07
within the core road network. The program supported ongoing road maintenance and rehabilitation works, and
included inter-territorial trunk, territorial main, district roads, primary feeder roads, urban roads, and tourist roads in the
country.
Component 2: Engineering and other Technical Services (appraisal cost US$34.98 million, with IDA financing of
US$2.00 million; AF1 of US$5.2 million; actual IDA cost US$7.20 million) included technical assistance for carrying
out feasibility studies, engineering design and supervision of maintenance and rehabilitation works for Component 1
and to provide support to complete the preparatory activities for the next phase.
Component 3: Institutional Development and Capacity Buildin g (appraisal cost US$48.49 million, with IDA financing
of US$3.4 million; AF1 of US$2.5 million; actual IDA cost US$5.90 million) included technical assistance and training
in the areas of policy support, implementation support, and institutional development. The strategic focus was to
provide support to the Government in implementation of the Transport Policy and the new institutional framework
including the creation of three new agencies in the road sector. The main elements of the component included: Policy
Support, Implementation Support, Institutional Development, and Monitoring and Evaluation.
Component 4: Accessibility and Mobility Improvement (appraisal cost US$13.61 million, with IDA financing of US$1.1
million; actual IDA cost US$1.1 million). This component aimed at providing continued support for improving physical
access for the poor in order to promote their economic and social development. The main sub-components included
Community Transport Infrastructure, Intermediate Means of Transport, Canals and Waterways.
Revised Components
The project components were not revised but the two AFs resulted in the modification of the scope and scale of the
project. Consequently, some activities were added and few were dropped.
    The first Additional Financing (AF1 ) was approved on April 12, 2007 to finance flood damaged bridge and culvert
     infrastructure (about 180 priority river crossings in three Provinces and in Four National Parks, and the
     construction of the Chiawa Bridge on the Kafue River). The upgrading of non-core roads was cancelled because
     the road re-classification study had not been launched at the time of mid-term review in 2006.
    The second Additional Financing (AF2) was approved on May 14, 2010 to finance cost overruns associated with
     the construction of the Chiawa Bridge due to higher than expected bids and to scale up the project by
     rehabilitation of an additional 12 km section of the Lusaka– Chirundu paved road.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: The total actual project was US$389.9 million, 102% of the appraisal estimate of US$380.9 million,
Financing: The original credit was US$50 million. The First Additional Financing (AF1) of US$25.0 million was
approved on April 12, 2007 to finance flood damaged bridge and culvert infrastructure. The Second Additional
Financing (AF2) for the amount of US$15 million (US$10 million was from the Crisis Response Window) was
approved on May 14, 2010 to cover cost overruns under the bridge works and to add new road rehabilitation works.
The actual Bank financing was US$90.0 million. Parallel financing was provided for the amount of US$ 120.8 million
from other development partners in support of the Government's ROADSIP (The ICR clarifies that this was parallel
rather than co-financing as indicated in the PAD).
Borrower Contribution : The actual Borrower counterpart funding was US$64.3 million (same as the appraisal
commitment amount). US$114.8 million were from the local sources of borrowing.
Dates: The original project duration of about three years from March 3, 2004 to June 30, 2007, was extended four
times, by seven years, to June 30, 2014.
    The credit was first amended on December 13, 2006, following the mid-term review to extend the closing date by
     one year until June 30, 2008 due to procurement delays.
    On April 12, 2007, a second amendment extended the project by two years until June 30, 2010 to allow the
     completion of activities funded under the first Additional Financing.
    The credit was amended a third time on May 14, 2010 for a two years extension to complete activities funded
     under the second Additional Financing. This was due to delays in the construction of the Chiawa Bridge caused
     by the need to re-bid the contract due to high bids received in May 2009.
    The fourth extension was approved on April 2, 2012, for two years to allow completion of the Chiawa Bridge and
     civil works on the 12 km Lusaka-Chirundu road section.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of original objectives : Substantial
The project development objectives were aligned with the Government's Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP
II) for the years 2004-2013 and its Transport Policy (2002). The project objectives were substantially relevant to the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at appraisal for the period of FY04-06, which aimed to improve infrastructure
service provision supporting the goal of sustained and diversified economic growth. The project development
objectives remain relevant to the current Country Partnership Strategy for the period of FY13-16, which aims to
address critical infrastructure investment gaps in pursuit of the overarching goal of reducing poverty and vulnerability
of the poor.
Relevance of revised objectives : Substantial
According to the second Additional Financing project paper (page 3), the project objectives were revised to "better
reflect the combined effects of the original project, the first and the proposed additional financing, and to enable the
introduction of a revised common results monitoring framework". The project development objectives were re-phrased
and one sub-objective was dropped. The first objective was narrowed to “targeted transport corridors” rather than the
“core public network”. The second objective remained essentially the same but the qualifier "effective, efficient,
equitable" were dropped. The third and the fourth objectives were dropped, and a new objective "rehabilitation and
construction of targeted transport infrastructure" was added.
The revised objectives were equally relevant to the Government priorities and the Country Partnership Strategy for the
period of FY13-16, which aimed to address critical infrastructure investment gaps in pursuit of the overarching goal of
reducing poverty and vulnerability of the poor.


b. Relevance of Design:
Original design: rated modest
The project was the first phase of a three phased Adjustable Program Loans (APL) in support of the Government's
Road Sector Investment Program II. The APL was an adequate instrument as it provided a progressive and phased
support to this ten year program. Phase one (three years) was designed to focus on carrying out periodic
maintenance of the maintainable network of paved and unpaved roads and prioritized rehabilitation, implementing
institutional and policy reforms, and completing preparation for the works to be implemented during the second phase.
Phase 2 (three years) and Phase 3 (four years) were to focus on periodic maintenance and rehabilitating priority roads
and bridges, further strengthening road management capacity; and putting into place a long-term program to improve
road safety.
The statement of objectives was clear, however, the project objectives were complex and over ambitious. The
objectives were reflective of the national ROADSIP II program, and were not directly connected to the outputs
expected from the project. The results framework at appraisal did not convincingly link inputs, outputs and
intermediate and final outcomes. For example the two PDOs, “(c) extension of urban and rural transport infrastructure
and services for increased accessibility”; and “(d) extension of community transport infrastructure” were not monitored
at the outcome level. The result framework focused largely on the achievement of civil works and disregarded the
levels of services and accessibility, or community involvement. There was also some disconnect between the
objectives and activities. For example, the PDO indicator “increase coverage of Core Road Network under sustainable
routine maintenance” does not relate directly to an activity financed by the project (ICR, page 8).
Revised design: rated substantial
The original design was retained under the revised objectives. The four original components remained unchanged and
these were better aligned to the new objectives. A few selected civil works were added (see section 2c above).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

A split rating is used to assess the project’s efficacy as the objectives and related outcome indicators were revised in
2010. Two new outcome indicators were added under the original objectives during AF in 2007 to capture the
additional project activities and are assessed under the original objectives.

Original Objectives
(a)       Preserving Zambia’s public core road network . Modest*.
*The output indicators and outcome were not monitored and dropped in 2010. Below are the outputs reported by the ICR in Annex 2.
Targets were not identified in the PAD. The works were financed by the Government through fuel levy. The ICR (p.8) reports that
‘increase in coverage of the core road network under sustainable routine maintenance’ does not relate directly to the activities
financed by the project.
Outputs
     Routine maintenance: 50% of the core road network was under routine maintenance by 2014 on Trunk, Main
      and Districts roads, equivalent to a cumulative 108,737 km over project duration. No routine maintenance was
      carried out on primary feeder roads (ICR, Annex 2, p.25).
     Periodic Maintenance: 38,450 km of core roads received periodic maintenance.
Outcomes
     The quality of the country’s core road network (40,113 km) improved for paved roads from 58% in 2004 to 64% in
      2006 (target was 65%), and for unpaved roads from 7% to 44% in 2006 exceeding the target of 32%. The
      indicator was not monitored and dropped.
(b) Development of adequate institutional capacity for effective , efficient, equitable and sustainable management of
the public road infrastructure , and road safety. Negligible.
Outputs
     Three roads agencies were established in 2005: (a) Roads Development Agency (RDA); (b) National Road Fund
      Agency (NRFA); and (c) Road Transport and Safety Agency (RTSA). They became operational by the end of
      2006. According to the ICR (p.25), RTSA is not adequately staffed and lacks capacity. Overall, the road agencies
      are characterized by weak implementation and coordination capacity (ICR, p.21). There is an overlap in the
      scope of work between RDA and the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) that creates challenges
      in road management.
     An institutional study and performance review for the Ministry of Transport, Works, Supply and Communications
      was dropped.
     Bridge Management System was developed and is operational, with a four- year delay.
     60 staff of the five Implementing Agencies received training in road safety, road finance, road maintenance and
      management.
     No outputs were delivered to help develop capacity for road safety management, i.e., the Road Accident
     Information System was developed in 2014 but was not operational at project closure; a mechanized motor
     vehicle inspection center was not constructed, including road safety parks.
Outcomes
    Domestic funding for roads was expected to be 40% by 2006. By project closure, it was 66% from the baseline of
     38% in 2004 (the baseline of 27% reported in PAD was approximate, according to the ICR, p.iv).
    The coverage of the core road network under sustainable maintenance program was 50% in 2014, increasing
     from the baseline value of 19.5% in 2004. The original target of 40% was expected to be reached by 2006.
    Overall, judging by limited institutional outputs, persistently weak efficiency and effectiveness of the roads
     agencies, lack of progress in road safety management, as well as shifting Government priorities towards
     construction since 2011, this objective as stated is considered negligibly achieved.
(c)Extension of urban and rural transport infrastructure and services for increased accessibility ; (d) Extension of
community transport infrastructure . Modest.
Outputs
    The project carried out 15 km of spot improvements, constructed 131 culverts (over 524 m) and rehabilitated one
     canal (over 1.4 km) by 2010. The works were carried out in five districts (Chibombo, Kalabo, Mpongwe,
     Sinazongwe and Zambezi) but were not scaled up as planned.
    103 river crossing structures were reconstructed by 2010 (the works were added at AF1 in 2007 and the target
     was 180, according to the AF Project Paper, Attachment 1).
    The Chiawa bridge was constructed on the Kafue River in June 2014, with a substantial delay as the activity was
     added at AF1 in 2007.
    Training and capacity building was planned to be carried out at community and district level. The ICR does report
     on this.
    Outcomes
    Traffic counts on three roads in Chibombo, Mpongwe and Sinazongwe districts increased by over 200 percent on
     average by 2010.
    505,000 of rural population got access to re-instated all-weather river crossings. However, the original target of
     826,000 was not achieved.
    The AF1 indicator measuring the number of visitors accessing the four rehabilitated national parks before and
     after project intervention was dropped and not reported.
    The PAD indicator on decrease in travel time of farm produce to markets (%) was dropped.
Revised objectives

(a) Development of the institutional capacity for sustainable management of public road infrastructure and road
safety. Modest.
Outputs
    Three roads agencies were established in 2005: (a) Roads Development Agency (RDA); (b) National Road Fund
     Agency (NRFA); and (c) Road Transport and Safety Agency (RTSA). They became operational by the end of
     2006. According to the ICR (p.25), RTSA is not adequately staffed and lacks capacity. Overall, the road agencies
     are characterized by weak implementation and coordination capacity (ICR, p.21). There is an overlap in the
     scope of work between RDA and the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) that creates challenges
     in road management (ICR, p.42).
    A high level policy review of the road sector institutional framework was not carried out.
    Bridge Management System was developed and is operational, with a four- year delay.
    60 staff of the five Implementing Agencies received training in road safety, road finance, road maintenance and
     management.
    No outputs were delivered to help develop capacity for road safety management. I.e., the Road Accident
     Information System was developed in 2014 but was not operational at project closure; a mechanized motor
     vehicle inspection center was not constructed, including road safety parks.
Outcomes
    Domestic funding for roads was expected to be above 65 % in 2012, reaching this level in 2014 (66%) from the
      baseline of 38% in 2004 (the baseline of 27% reported in PAD was approximate, according to the ICR, p.iv).
     The road user revenues increased from zero in 2004 to about US$100 million in 2014. The road user charges
      system was developed with the support of the project. This domestic resource was sufficient to fully fund the cost
      of routine maintenance (estimated at US$35 million annually) as well as 31 percent of the periodic maintenance
      needs (ICR Para. 68 page 19).
     The coverage of the core road network under sustainable routine maintenance program increased from 19.5% in
      2004 to 50% in 2014, two years behind the schedule as per revised target. As reported by the ICR (p.21), the
      Government priorities has been shifting since 2011 to prioritizing construction over maintenance.
     The above two indicators were selected to measure improvement in the capacity of the National Road Fund
      Agency (AF2 Project Paper, Annex 1). As reported by the ICR (p.16), the capacity of the three road agencies
      supported by the project has not been strengthened in a sustainable manner as intended by the project.
(b)       Preservation of road assets in targeted transport corridors . Substantial.
Outputs
     The output for rehabilitation of rural roads was exceeded by more than 50% from a target of 15 km to 23.5 km.
     133 km of non-rural roads (the Chirundu- Lusaka road) were rehabilitated (target was >45 km). The output for
      non-rural roads was over-achieved.
Outcomes
     The outcome indicator was to increase in percentage terms the roads in good and fair condition from 50% in
      2004 to over 70% in 2012. As reported by the ICR, 89% of the Chirundu- Lusaka road is in fair condition. There
      were pavement failures. The project team clarified that only about 500 meter of of the 53 km Lusaka-Chirundu
      section had a flood induced failure. It was remedied by the Borrower at its own cost. The project team further
      clarified that the failures along Kafulafuta-Luanshya road were caused by an increase in overloaded traffic that
      exceeded technical projections. That’s because the improved road quality, due to the project supported
      maintenance, made it the preferred alternative route between Kafulafuta and Ndola, thereby increasing traffic
      loads beyond the design standards.
(c)       Rehabilitation and construction of targeted transport infrastructure . Substantial.
Outputs
     The project carried out 15 km of spot improvements, constructed 131 culverts (over 524 m) and rehabilitated one
      canal (over 1.4 km) by 2010. The works were carried out in five districts (Chibombo, Kalabo, Mpongwe,
      Sinazongwe and Zambezi) but were not scaled up as planned.
     103 river crossing structures were reconstructed by 2010, as per AF2 target, i.e., 34 in Northern Province, 30 in
      Luapula Province, and 39 in National Parks.
     The Chiawa bridge was constructed on the Kafue River in June 2014, with substantial delay as the activity was
      added at AF1 in 2007.
Outcomes
     After completion of the Chiawa bridge, the average delay across river Kafue reduced by over 90% (from 25
      minutes to 1 minute).
     505,000 of rural population got access to re-instated all-weather river crossings (49% female), as per the revised
      target of 502,000.


 5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal, an economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated using the Bank's Highway Design Model (HDM 3).
The project costs included investment costs and routine and periodic maintenance costs. The main quantifiable
benefits considered were: (i) vehicle operating cost savings; and (ii) maintenance cost savings with respect to the
“without” project case. The ERRs ranged from 15 to 28% (see Table below). The ICR (page 17) reports that during the
two Additional Financing, no ERR calculations was carried out due to limited availability of data.

At completion, ERR was calculated for 95 percent of the project investment. The ERR ranged from negative value to a
high of 63 percent for roads and 12 percent for the Chiawa Bridge. The ERR for Lusaka-Chirundu link was negative
because of lower-than-expected traffic, and relatively high project costs per kilometer (though the project cost was still
much lower than estimated).
Table: Economic Rate of Return at appraisal and Completion
               Roads and Bridges                                 ERR Appraisal                             ERR Completion
     Chingola-Kasumbalesa (40 km)                                    25%                                        33%
     Kafulafuta-Luanshya (45 km)                                 20.5 to 27.7%                                     63%
     Ndola-Mwambeshi                                                18 to 28%
     Kafue-Chimndu and Zimba-Livingstone                               22%
     Lusaka-Chirundu Escarpment (34 km)                                                                          30%
     Lusaka-Chirundu Link 3 (20 km)                                                                          negative ERR
     Chiawa Bridge                                                    15.4%                                      12%

While the original project activities were substantially completed by 2009, the quality of works were reported to be
poor on several road sections and in further need of repair, i.e., the Chingola-Kasumbalesa and Kafulafuta-Luanshya
roads (the National Road Fund Agency’s project sustainability report of January 2012 p.5-6, and completion report of
March 2015, p.19). The ICR (p.16) notes that 89% of the 134 km rehabilitated roads are in fair condition. Additional
five years were needed for the completion of the new activities added under the first Additional financing in 2007. The
overall project's efficiency was affected by significant procurement delays. As for cost overruns, the ICR (p.15) reports
the variation orders of 120% under component 4.
Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original Objective: Relevance of objectives was substantial, and that of design modest. Three sub-objectives were
rated modest, and one negligible. Efficiency is assessed as modest. The project development outcome is rated
Unsatisfactory.
Revised Objective: Relevance of objectives was substantial and that of design substantial. Two sub-objective were
rated substantial and one was rated modest. Efficiency is assessed as modest. The project development outcome is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.
The overall outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The disbursement shares were 67% (US$60.34 million)
prior to and 33% (US$29.66 million) subsequent to project restructuring in 2010.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Overall, the risks to development outcome are assessed as significant.
    Although the project aimed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the roads sector agencies for sustainable
     management of the road infrastructure, this was not achieved and the capacity is weak.
    Funding through the Road Fund (through fuel levy which is one of the road user revenues), is adequate for fully
     funding the cost of routine maintenance (estimated at US$35 million annually) as well as 31 percent of the
     periodic maintenance needs. However, in the absence of a revised National Transport Policy, there is a high risk
     that the government may prioritize extension of the road network over maintenance.
    For the community transport infrastructure, following the completion of pilot phase, there was no funding
     available for the maintenance of the newly built infrastructure. Therefore, most of the facilities have deteriorated
     since 2009.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was the first phase of a three phased APL in support of the Government's Road Sector Investment
Program II. The project had a Quality at Entry Assessment, which rated it satisfactory, despite the fact that the
baseline data was not available and that the implementation and procurement plans were not ready at Board
presentation.

At appraisal, most risks identified were related to the Government’s commitment to enact and effectively
implement the legislation setting up the three new Road Agencies, technical and managerial constraints, the
timely release of counterpart funding for the agreed activities and its overall lack of efficiency and transparency.
As noted by the ICR (pages 9, 20), the mitigation measures proposed proved though insufficient to address these
risks, and there could have been more stringent supervision arrangement from the outset. M&E system was
envisaged to be developed during implementation. Also, the ICR (page 20) finds that the activities could have
been better suited to address the poor capacity of local construction industry in applying quality design and
standards and in carrying out proper supervision of contractors, as well as outstanding issues on the management
structure of the road sector.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were carried out regularly (23 missions in total) and the last project team leader was in the
field from May 2013 to June 2014. The ICR reports that the supervision aide-memoires were relatively extensive
but sometimes inconsistent or incomplete in the reporting of results.
The main reason for the delays experienced by the project was the weak institutional capacity which adversely
affected the completion of activities added under the first Additional Financing at the request of the Government.
Initially the Bank was planning to prepare a stand-alone project but a Quality Enhancement Review held on
August 24, 2006 found that an Additional Financing to the ongoing project would be "a more efficient, simple and
rapid process" for the Bank and Government. It is not clear if the Bank decision to include further activities through
the Additional Financing instead of a stand-alone project was adequate since major delays are attributable to
these activities.
The Bank carried out annual post procurement reviews in order to ensure that acceptable standards were being
observed. Despite close monitoring the Bank team was unable to improve performance in Implementing Agencies.
As was subsequently clarified by the project team, the National Construction Council was included as a
beneficiary agency to help improve the performance. The council provided technical and managerial training for
staff of the newly created Implementing Agencies, and this helped address some of the initial procurement and
engineering issues. The Bank team commissioned technical audits on civil works (priority river crossings,
Kafulafuta-Luanshya) to investigate possible shortfalls in supervision and design.
The ICR reports (page 20) that the Bank team would have benefitted from a governance specialist to help address
the lack of achievement regarding the institutional targets. The Bank could have paid more attention to the review
of bidding documents and of engineering designs. The absence of an operational M&E system is identified as a
significant shortfall of the project (ICR, p.12).



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The ICR reports (page 21) that the government demonstrated a strong commitment to the project during
preparation. However, this support changed with the new Government (in 2011) as the focus shifted from
maintenance to construction.
Between February 2009 and September 2010, the Government of Zambia conducted an audit of the road sector
following allegations of over commitment of funds. The audit was carried out by the Office of the Auditor General,
revealing serious governance weaknesses that resulted in misappropriation of resources for Government funded
projects and sub-optimal quality of work. The ICR reports that the audit found no mismanagement of the project
funds. As a result of the audit, the government dismissed a large number of key staff at Road Development
Agency, National Road Fund Agency, and Road Transport Safety Agency in an effort to address governance
issues. The incoming Government, in December 2011, implemented further staff dismissals - not linked to the
Audit - from among the remaining staff, directly impacting the implementation capacity of the Road Development
Agency.
The counterpart funding was not paid on schedule, only six percent of the required commitments per year,
causing delays in implementing the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), and thus negatively impacting the overall
project implementation timetable and costs. However it was fully realized (US$64.3 million) at project closure as
per commitment.

      Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project had the following six Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Transport, Works, Supply and
Communications (MTWSC), Ministry fo Local Government and Housing (MLGH), National Road Fund Agency
(NRFA), Road Development Agency (RDA), Road Transport Safety Agency (RTSA), and National Council for
Construction (NCC).
   The ICR reports (page 21) that all of the implementing agencies were not sufficiently prepared for the project
     due to weak project management and coordination capacity. Engineering designs and bidding documents
     were not ready at project effectiveness, due to the lack of in-house capacity at RDA. NRFA, RTSA, and RDA
     performed poorly in implementing and monitoring the project's activities and procurement of services and
     works. There was lack of clear lines of responsibilities between the agencies, creating confusion and delays.
     The Roads Sector Investment Program Steering Committee was ineffective in driving project implementation.
     The project team clarified that at the time of project closing, NCC had put in place laws and regulations to
     clarify processes and eliminate redundancies amongst the agencies.
      The Office of the Auditor General identified serious governance issues in the road sector agencies. As a
       result, the Board of Directors was dismissed in 2009 and only reconstituted in 2011. During this period, the
       agencies were managed by a Chairman without check and balances in place.
      NRFA was in charge of coordinating financial management for the project. However, it did not have the
       capacity to process payments to contractors in a timely manner. This caused severe delays and adversely
       affected the project implementation
      Overall, as per ICR (page 21), all the implementing agencies were not sufficiently prepared for the project
       with weak implementation and coordination capacity and showed a lack of ownership of the project activities.

      Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

      Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The original project design had four outcome indicators: (i) increase the coverage of core road network under
sustainable routine maintenance program; (ii) improve the quality of core road network for paved and unpaved roads;
(iii) increase domestic funding for the total road budget; and (iv) put in place and operate a system for recording of
road accidents. The results framework focused on the achievement of civil works, tracking improvement of the road
quality and re-construction of transport infrastructure, and the achievement of maintenance program targets. There
were no baselines set at appraisal for many of the project indicators, and according to the PAD (p.4), the project was
supposed to undertake a study to develop the baseline within the first six months following effectiveness.

The first Additional Financing introduced two additional outcome indicators: (i) increase in the number of visitors
accessing the four national parks after project intervention (subsequently dropped); and (ii) increase in the rural
population with access to all-weather river crossings. The second Additional Financing added the following indicator -
"number of direct project beneficiaries of which 49 percent are female increased to 505,000". The new outcome added
at AF2 on the percentage of the road section in good and fair condition narrowly reflected the scope of the project and
was more output oriented.

At appraisal, it was planned that the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) would be responsible for the
M&E for the whole road sector, and the National Road Fund Agency (NFRA) would fund data collection. Since MCT
needed time to develop its M&E system, an interim arrangement was agreed by which each agency would collect data
with their own resources and report to NRFA that would ultimately compile and analyze data.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR reports (page 11) that the original M&E implementation arrangements were never set up and the interim
arrangement became permanent and suboptimal. MCT (later changed to the Ministry of Transport, Works, Supply and
Communications [MTWSC]) had not developed its M&E system by project closing, and none of the agencies had the
appropriate capacity to report qualitative and timely information to NRFA. The ICR (p.12) finds the absence of an
operational M&E system as a significant shortfall of the project, as the weakness in Zambia's road sector was flagged
as a major concern in previous Bank operations and at the project's Quality at Entry Assessment.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The indicators were not used, as reported in the Borrower's completion report (p.43).

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was assigned Environmental Assessment Category "B". The following safeguards were triggered at
appraisal: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Cultural Property (OP 11.03), and
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). The project activities were mostly focused on the rehabilitation and maintenance
of existing road sections. Very little upgrading was expected with limited re-alignment. The potential negative
environmental impacts during road construction work included: soil erosion, disturbances in the water quality, noise
and dust, and works site clean-up. According to the PAD, mitigation arrangements would be included in the road
specific environmental management plans. The PAD stated that there may potentially be impacts on people and
property and/or loss of access. In such cases, Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) would be prepared, approved and
disclosed prior to sub-project appraisal.
Environmental Assessment : The environmental management unit (located in the Roads Department) established
under the first Roads Sector Investment Program was responsible for the implementation of the environmental
safeguards. All documents such as the Environment Impact Assessments (EIAs), Environment Management Plans
(EMPs) and the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) were prepared. The ICR does not provided
information about mitigation efforts and impacts. The ICR does not report on the compliance with the environmental
safeguards .
Natural Habitats: The ICR does not report on the compliance with the Natural Habitats safeguards.
Involuntary Resettlement : The ICR reports (page 12) that all social safeguards documents and instruments were
prepared. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) of US$3.5 million was prepared and implemented for 333 people, out of
57 households affected by the construction of Mufuchani Bridge. The RAP for Chiawa Bridge included four project
affected people whose small business was relocated. No other information is provided by the ICR. It does not discuss
any grievance redressal system. The ICR does report on the compliance with Involuntary resettlement safeguard.
Cultural Property: The ICR does not report on the compliance with the Cultural Property safeguards.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management : The ICR (page 12) reports that the financial management policies were complied with. All
interim and audit reports were submitted without major delay. In 2010 there were some delays in the release of
payments to the contractors due to shortage of lower level accounting staff. At the time of the second Additional
Financing, a Financial Management Improvement Action Plan was developed and implemented. The ICR (page 12)
reports that the National Roads Board and later the National Road Fund Agency was responsible for all aspects of
financial management including submitting all financial reporting, and its performance was satisfactory, despite
absence of an internal audit function.
Procurement: The Project Appraisal Document stated that procurement capacity had been built under the first Roads
Sector Investment Program. However, the ICR reports (page 12) that the implementing Agencies were not able to
carry out procurement tasks and proved to be understaffed and without proper capacity/expertise. Delays in
procurement were also caused by the lack of capacity at the level of bidders. The construction of Chiawa bridge
encountered long delays because the bid prices originally received were too high (US$17.2 million against an
expected US$8.7 million) leading to cancellation of the procurement process, review of the designs and rebidding at a
revised cost of US$14.7 million. The Bank carried out annual post procurement reviews in order to ensure that
acceptable standards were being observed. Despite close monitoring, the Bank team were unable to improve the
performance of Implementing Agencies.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None reported.

d. Other:
None reported.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately         The outcome rating was Unsatisfactory
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory     prior to restructuring when 67% of the
                                                                               credit had disbursed and Moderately
                                                                               Satisfactory thereafter when 33% was
                                                                               disbursed, giving an overall rating of
                                                                               Moderately Unsatisfactory.

          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately         Quality at entry is rated Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory     Satisfactory and Supervision is rated
                                                                               Moderately Unsatisfactory. Since the
                                                                               overall project outcome is Moderately
                                                                               Unsatisfactory, Bank Performance is
                                                                               rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately         Government Performance is rated
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory and
                                                                               Implementing Agencies performance is
                                                                               rated Unsatisfactory.
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons are taken from the ICR:
    It is important to monitor the capacity of the supported agencies to carry out the tasks that were expected from
     them under the project, such as preparing detailed engineering designs for roads, and undertaking bidding
     processes. Providing training to the implementing agencies staff to develop these skills may be more useful
     than recruiting external consultant to do their job.
    In this case, project duration and overall efficiency was adversely affected by the activities added through
     Additional Financing (AF). While the additional activities and the AF were warranted, the capacity of the
     Implementing Agencies to undertake additional activities was not fully assessed at the time of AF. It may have
     been more appropriate to initiate a stand-alone emergency project so as to forestall delays under the original
     project.
    Having a well-funded Road Fund does not guarantee proper use of the resources. More robust economic
     analysis and rationalization needs to be applied in decision making. Therefore, the Bank could focus on
     supporting institutional reforms to ensure that investment decisions are underpinned by robust economic
     analysis.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides candid discussions of the shortcomings in the implementation of the project. However, the ratings
do not reflect this candidness, and are over-optimistic. There are a number of shortcomings: (i) Annex 1 (a) on
project cost by component reports only the Bank amount and not the other sources of funding for the entire project; (ii)
the discussion on the implementation of environmental and social safeguards is inadequate - the ICR does not
provide information on the mitigation efforts and impacts, nor does it report on the compliance with environmental and
social safeguards; (iii) the report does not quote correctly the statement of the objectives from the Development Credit
Agreement (page 3); and (iv) the ICR used a split rating but assessed the achievement of the objectives at the time of
restructurings rather than at project closure. Original objectives should be evaluated at project closure, not at the time
of revision/ restructuring (the share of disbursements at the time of restructuring determines the final outcome). The
overall efficacy section is weak and output -oriented, rather than outcome focused.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
