Docment of
The World Bank
Report No. 14885-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1995)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 1.00 = US$0.21
US$1.00 = Bs 4.73
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COMIBOL -    Bolivian Mining Corporation (Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia)
ECU       -    Environmental Coordinating Unit
EPC       -    Environmental Project Coordinator
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
FDC       -    Small-Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIS       -    Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FNDR      -    Regional Development Fund (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional)
IBRD      -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBNORCA  -    Bolivian Institute of Standards and Quality (Instituto Boliviano de
Normalizacion y Calidad)
IDA       -    International Development Association
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
IE        -    Ecological Institute at University of San Andres (Instituto de Ecologia)
IG        -    Geological Research Institute at University of San Andres (Instituto de
Investigaciones Geol6gicas)
MED       -    Ministry of Economic Development
MoF       -    Ministry of Finance
MSDE      -    Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
MSRP      -    Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
NDF       -    Nordic Development Fund
SCU       -    Sectoral Coordinating Unit
SDR       -    Special Drawing Rights
SoM       -    Secretariat of Mines
SPC       -    Sectoral Project Coordinator



BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................                           ii
I. BACKGROUND   ..
A. Environmental Pollution from Industry.                                      I
B.   Environmental Conditions in the Mining Communities.                       I
C.   Institutional Framework for Environmental Management.                    2
-I. THE PROJECT ..                                                                  3
A. Project Objectives.                                                        3
B. Project Description.                                                       3
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement.                                             7
D. Program Objective Categories.                                              8
E. Enviromnental Aspects.                                                     8
F. Project Costs and Financing.                                               8
G. Project Implementation.                                                    9
III. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................... 19
A.  Agreements .........................................                     19
B. Recommendation .20



ANNEXES
1.  Estimated Project Cost and Financing Plan ........................................................ 22
2.  Time-Bound Detailed Implementation Plan for Each Project Component .......                        ............ 23
3.  Summary of Procurement Arrangements ........................................................... 24
4.  Schedule of Procurement Actions  .................................................................. 25
5.  Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
IDA-financed elements ........................................................................    26
Nordic Development Fund-financed elements .                    ................................................ 27
6.  Schedule of Disbursements ........................................................................  28
7.  Monitoring Indicators ........................................................................            29
8.  Selection Criteria of Sub-Projects for Inclusion under the Environmental Remediation
Component of the Project for Mine Sites and Investments for Remediation .............. 32
9.  Select Documents and Data Available in Project File ............                 ............................... 38
Map
This report is based on the findings of identification, preparation and appraisal missions that
visited Bolivia during 1992-1995, led by Christopher Barham (LA3PS). Key participants in the
missions and contributors to the report were Felix Remy and Gotthard Walser (IENIM); Wendy
Ayres, David Hanrahan, Gordon Hughes, (ENVPE); Bekir Onursal (LATEN); Robert Toth,
Lars Landner, Louis Hidalgo, Javier Nogales, Kathleen Anderson, and Faith Halter
(Consultants). Valuable support in the production of the report was provided by Mmes. Isabelle
Kim (LA3PS) and Marta Cervantes (LA3DR). Peer reviewers were Michele de Nevers (LA2EU)
and Walter Vergara (ASTEN).   Krishna Challa and  Paul Isenman were, respectively, the
Division Chief and Department Director for this operation.



BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Bolivia
Implementing       Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
Agencies:          and Ministry of Economic Development
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment; the Secretariat
of Mines; COMIBOL; Institute of Geological Research; Institute of
Ecology; and Bolivian Institute of Standards and Quality
Poverty:           Not applicable
Amount:            SDR 7.4 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA; 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:  0.5 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the IDA credit and NDF cofinancing would be
transferred to Beneficiaries as a grant
Financing Plan:    See Annex 1
Net Present Value: Investrnents in mine site remediation to reduce damage to human health,
infrastructure, and ecosystems would be selected based on cost-benefit
or cost-effectiveness criteria, as data permit. While economic retums from
individual remediation subprojects would depend upon local conditions,
investments in several other Bank and IDA-supported environmental projects
have estimated rates of return exceeding 20%. No NPV is calculable for
technical assistance activities or for remediation activities undertaken to
further private investment in the COMIBOL mines.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 14885-BO
MAP:               IBRD 27222






BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
1.    In Bolivia, non-agnrcultural economic activity has been concentrated in mining, petroleum
extraction, agricultural and forestry industries, textiles and light manufacturing. These activities, which
will likely underpin the country's economic development in the medium-term, have grown with little
concem for environmental protection or worker health and safety. In the case of mining, Bolivia has
been a commercial producer (mainly silver, tin) since the sixteenth century. Since the 1950s, a
significant share of the industry has been operated by COMIBOL, the State-owned mining company
In response to the need for capital and management improvements, COMIBOL is withdrawing from
production operations, and will remain as a contract administrator. It has reduced its operations. and
has begun to offer its economically-viable mines and smelters for private participation.  Some
properties have been closed, others are being leased or offered for outright sale, or in the case of the
Vinto smelter, for inclusion in the Government's Capitalization Program. The latter Program is
designed to attract private investment into key State-owned enterprises, and to distribute Government-
owned shares to privately-managed pension funds for the benefit of the Bolivian population. IDA is
supporting mining sector restructuring under the ongoing Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project, and the
wider Capitalization Program through the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit. The mining
sector restructuring aims at establishing an enabling environment for private development of the sector,
based on the reform and modernization of the legal and institutional framework. In the case of
industry, apart from three cement plants, manufacturing is relatively underdeveloped, though medium
and smaller-scale operations exist near major cities. Principal activities center on textiles, leather
products, food and beverage products and wood processing.
A.    Environmental Pollution from Industry
2.    In the case of industry, pollution originates mainly from the discharge of untreated effluents to
rivers or inadequate municipal sewage systems. Instances of localized air pollution also arise in mining
and industry, e.g. from smelters, refineries, or cement plants.
B.    Environmental Conditions in Mining Communities
3.    In the COMIBOL mining centers that would be covered by the Project -- namely Oruro (San
Jose mine), Potosi (IJnificada mine), Llallagua (Siglo XX mine and Catavi smelter), Santa Fe, Huanuni,
Colquiri, and Caracoles, and others -- past and ongoing mining activities have created numerous
sources of contamination which affect surface water (and in some cases, groundwater), air, and soil.
Tailings from the mills, waste rock, underground and open-pit mine workings, roads, wastewater
ponds, landfills, and smelters are among the potential existing sources of mining-related pollution Of



2
particular concern are those sources which generate very low-pH water (acid rock drainage or ARD),
which dissolves and transports metals, such as lead, arsenic, cadmium, and zinc, which may pose a
threat to human health and the environment. Acid rock drainage discharges from mine entryways
(adits), and seeps from the tailings and rock piles. The nature, extent, and impact of ARD varies
greatly, however. The environmental degradation associated with ARD is determined by many factors,
including water chemistry in receiving streams and rivers, dilution and temperature.
4.    In addition, mine waste has been used extensively in mining communities to build
impoundments, roads, and common areas such as playgrounds and sports fields. Many of these
structures continue to release metals through the acid-generating process. Inhabitants of the mining
communities frequently come into direct contact with the mine waste; children play on or adjacent to
tailings and waste rock piles, and people build houses directly on old tailings. However it is important
to note that contact -- even direct contact -- does not presuppose risk. Mine waste is highly variable,
both in toxicity and in bioavailability. For example, some forms of arsenic or of lead are not readily
absorbed into the human body, and therefore do not pose a significant risk to human health.
5.    The environment in mining towns is also polluted by the contaminants typical of poor
communities in many developing countries. For example, drinking water is frequently contaminated
with bacteria and fecal coliform, and ambient air is contaminated with dust from industrial and
combustion sources, lead from smelters and vehicle exhaust, and sulfur dioxide from smelters. In many
mining communities, these pollutants may be causing more damage to human health than heavy metal
pollution from mining.
6.    In the context of restructuring the mining sector, COMIBOL is commissioning environmental
audits for a priority set of fourteen mining properties. The first three audits, respectively for Oruro
(San Jose mine), Huanuni, and Colquiri have been completed; the rest are expected to be completed by
December 1995. In addition, the ongoing Oruro Pilot Project being carried out through the Secretariat
of Mines is conducting an environmental assessment of an important mining region of Bolivia which
contains several COMIBOL properties. Together, these studies will identify major environmental
problems at various sites, provide data to inform the assignment of environmental liabilities between
parties to divestment transactions, and define cost-effective, site-specific, remediation plans. The
recommendations for remediation emanating from the environmental audits for San Jose, Huanuni and
Colquiri are summarized in Annex 8, and in the Project File.
C.    Institutional Framework for Environmental Management
7.    Due to growing environmental concern, in 1991/92 the (then) Government established the
National Secretariat for the Environment (SENMA) with IDA support. It also issued a National
Environmental Action Plan and passed an umbrella Environmental Law. The present Government has
indicated its commitment to environmental management by establishing a Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Environment (MSDE). The MSDE -- which absorbed SENMA and the Planning
Ministry -- is charged with formulating and implementing national policies to encourage development
with concem for the environment. Presently, MSDE, through its Subsecretariat of Environment,
(which is responsible for EIA and enforcement activities), is promulgating initial national environmental
Regulations covering EIA, air, water, and solid and hazardous wastes. However, the staff of MSDE is



3
still small and has limited practical experience. Moreover, the baseline information, laboratory capacity,
and environmental management policies and concrete action plans based on a sound assessment of
environmental priorities at the national and regional levels all remain to be refined. IDA, IDB and
bilateral donors are supporting MSDE's programs, which now need to be made tangible inter alia
through institutional strengthening of MSDE and line agencies; development of baseline data and
procedures to support EA and compliance monitoring of greenfield and ongoing operations;
implementation, and ultimately refinement, of sectoral environmental regulations, standards, and codes
of practice; strengthening of environmental testing laboratories, (so that locally-conducted analyses
have credibility in Bolivia and abroad, and are able to support a national environmental monitoring
system); and improvement of the Government's capacity to communicate to stakeholders concerning
risks to health and the environment due to pollution. Moreover, both the Government and the private
sector need assistance to identify and make cost-effective firm-level investments to abate pollution from
sources for which they are liable under the emerging regulatory regime. The IDB has approved a
project for MSDE aimed at strengthening its management systems and staffing, especially outside La
Paz.
IL THlE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
8.     The Project would: (i) support the implementation and refinement of a regulatory framework
to assure that privately-led mining and industrial activities grow in a more environmentally-friendly
fashion; (ii) help remediate contamination from past mining activities for which the State accepts
liability, including remediation activities that help facilitate private investment in the mining sector; and
(iii) assist in attracting non-Project resources (e.g. from the FIS, FNDR, or FDC') for investments
which are not eligible for financing under the Project in mining communities, in order to address urgent
environmental problems, e.g. for potable water and sanitation.
B.    Project Description
9.     The Project has been designed based upon the findings of a 1993 sectoral environmental
assessment for the mining and industrial sectors, as well as a number of studies carried out during
Project preparation (e.g. on the adequacy of laboratory testing services; on the treatment of
environmental liabilities in the privatization process; and on the development of risk-based selection
criteria for publicly-funded remediation investments in mining).   The Project would include
components as follows:
I Bolivia has established, inter alia with IDA financing, a number of programs to assist municipalities and rural
areas address their most serious environmental problems -- contaminated drinking water and dust containing lead,
arsenic, cadmium, and zinc -- by providing basic infrastructure. These programs fund activities such as water
sanitation systems and road paving.



4
1.    Studies to Support the Development of the Regulatory Framework
10    The Project would finance two studies aimed at improving environmental management, both at
the national level as well as in the important regions of Santa Cruz, Cochabamba and El Alto (La Paz).
The studies would be contracted by MSDE and would include two types of tasks. First, tasks aimed
at basic data collection would: (i) collect and analyze data to identify the mines and industries with
significant environmental impacts; (ii) collect and analyze baseline ambient water quality data for
selected surface and subterranean water bodies; and (iii) evaluate the potential costs and benefits of
pollution prevention measures in firms in the leather-tanning, meat, and brick-making industries, sugar
refineries and distilleries, and cement plants. Second, tasks aimed at policy developnment and
implementation would
(i)    assist MSDE and MED, in conjunction with the mining and industrial sectors, to
develop and implement (through training) improved policies and procedures for
environmental assessment for investments in the respective sectors,
(ii)    design a system of incentives to encourage adoption of improved environmental
practices at the firm level;
{iii)    develop and help implement a mechanism for financing remediation of contamination
from past mining activities on a long term-basis;
(iv)   identify sources of hazardous waste, characterize hazardous wastes, and design and
help implement a regulatory framework to manage them,
(v)    review and update ambient quality standards and discharge standards for the industrial
and mining sectors;
(1Yij) develop and help implement a national strategy for environmental monitoring and
enforcementt; and
(vii)   develop and help implement a national strategy to communicate to the public risks to
health and the environment from pollution, based on the best scientific knowledge.
i H.   One important output from the various studies would be a set of agreed action plans for Santa
Cnrz, Cochabamba and El Alto, which could form the basis for future environmental improvement
projects in each region. The studies would be sequenced so as to build upon each other, using data
from one study as input into another, wherever feasible. Studies would include training components
fo, local staff, to maximize technology transfer. Draft Terms of Reference for the two proposed
studies are included in the Project File. These programs are estimated to cost US$4.0n million (18% of
total Project costs). Costs are based upon professional judgments regarding required manpower input
and uait costs, and the cost of similar studies in other countries.



5
2.    Laboratory Upgrading
12.   The Project would implement a program to foster development of credible laboratory testing
services in Bolivia by: (i) clarifying and strengthening the policy and institutional framework to support
diffusion of improved operating standards and accreditation of labs operating throughout the country,
and (ii) supporting the development of three key institutions to serve as lead agencies in the lab
upgrading process, namely Instituto de Investigaciones Geol6gicas (IG) and the Instituto de Ecologia
(IE) at the Universidad Mayor de San Andres, and Instituto Boliviano de Normalizaci(in y Calidad
(IBNORCA). As a first step, at Project inception MSDE would contract two technical assistance
activities, respectively to: (i) conduct an inventory of laboratories in Bolivia, to assess the local capacity
to provide environmental testing services, and prepare forecasts of the regional demand for various
analytical services for environmental monitoring; and (ii) design and reach consensus upon the policy
and institutional framework for a national standardization and quality system, which is essential for the
widespread accreditation of labs. FoUlowing completion of these initial activities, the Project would
support a range of self-improvement programs, acceptable to IDA, to be proposed by 1G, [E,
IBNORCA, or MSDE, through the Environmental Coordinating Unit (ECU) (para. 25). Activities to
be supported would include:
(i)    consulting services, study tours, and short training courses sponsored by MSDE
and/or IBNORCA to implement the policy and institutional framework within
which credible laboratory-based environmental testing services could develop,
(ii)    participation in proficiency testing programs with reputed laboratories to enable
IG and IE to determine the relative level of their capabilities;
(iii)   studies to assist in achieving international accreditation of IG and/or IE,
(iv)    preparation of market surveys, feasibility studies, business plans, and related
facility improvement programs for IG, IE, or IBNORCA;
(v)    training activities sponsored by IG, IE, IBNORCA, or MSDE to improve the
quality of laboratory operations or field sampling methods in Bolivia. Preference
would be given to training offered for personnel from more than one institution,
to encourage inter-institutional collaboration and efficient use of resources,
(vi)   capital improvement programs for IG, IE, or IBNORCA, including services,
goods and civil works. Such programs would need to be justified on the basis of
feasibility studies and sound business plans, and be linked to the improvement of
environmental testing services in Bolivia, and
(vii)   activities sponsored by MSDE, IE, IG, or IBNORCA to develop a professional
association of laboratories in Bolivia.



6
13.   The program is estimated to cost US$2.0 million (9% of total Project costs). Costs are based
upon professional judgments regarding manpower inputs, unit costs, and the likely absorptive capacity
of related institutions during the Project period.
3.    Remediation Investments
14.   A list of mine sites to be considered as possible candidates for environmental improvement
interventions has been prepared on the basis of risk-based eligibility criteria tailored to the mining
sector (Annex 8 and Project File). These criteria included, inter alia, the impact that mining pollution
would reasonably have on human health, economic activities or ecosystems for each site. For each of
these sites, environmental audits would provide information to identify a range of environmental
management measures (e.g. potable water, sanitation, urban paving for dust control, remediation of
mine tailing piles, control of the flow of acid mine drainage etc.) which show promise of yielding the
highest benefits for the resources used, if carried out in the specific locale (Annex 8 and Project File).
The highest yielding -- and therefore priority -- measures may or may not, in any specific mining
community, include remediation of contamination from past mining activities. The Project would
finance, on a pilot basis, only those eligible subprojects comprising priority environmental
management measures which (i) had their origin in mining activities; (ii) were the responsibility of the
State under Bolivia's environmental liability provisions; and (iii) could not be addressed with financing
through established municipal and rural improvement programs, such as the FIS, FNDR, or FDC. The
Project would assist communities in accessing non-Project sources of funding for priority investments
which did not satisfy the above-mentioned eligibility criteria by financing consultants (promotores) who
would be employed by the Secretariat of Mines. These consultants would work with the mining
communities to identify and prepare projects for funding from various non-Project financing sources.
Project activities would not therefore duplicate ongoing municipal improvement initiatives, nor violate
the established investment planning process at the municipal level.
15.   An initial set of environmental management measures which demonstrate primafacie promise
of yielding adequate economic returns, has been agreed with MSDE and MED to be considered for the
San Jose, Huanuni and Colquiri mines, and is included in Annex 8 and the Project File. Detailed plans
for the remediation activities, and associated cost-benefit studies would be prepared for each eligible
subproject, and those investments with acceptable economic returns would be proposed to IDA for
financing under the Project. In addition, the Project would finance remediation activities that remove
impediments to private investment in COMIBOL mines in those cases where legal remedies would be
insufficient to aUleviate concerns of private investors about liability for past contamination, and cleanup
by COMIBOL would be demonstrably cost-effective. The methodology for carrying out cost-
benefit studies, and associated investment decision criteria, would be included in an Operational
Manual to be adopted under the Project as a condition of Effectiveness (para. 27).
16.   The initial set (Annex 8) of eligible subprojects for possible financing under the Project for San
Jose in Oruro consists of selective tailings remediation, channeling and treatment of acid mine drainage,
and remediation of physical threats in old mine operations. In Huanuni and Colquiri, audits have
also identified environmental improvements likely to be justifiable at those sites. However, the final
designation of activities for possible financing under the Project would only be made once negotiations



7
with private investors have been concluded. In other sites, investments would be identified as more
information becomes available.
17.   As many eligible subprojects as can be supported within the available financing would be
considered for the Project. The program is estimated to cost US$6.0 million (27% of total Project
costs).
4.    Technical Assistance and Training to Support Environmental Management
in Mining
18.   The Project would include financing for consulting services, equipment and training to assist
the Secretariat of Mining to improve environmental management in the mining sector, and COMIBOL
to benefit from technical studies related to preparation of eligible subprojects (para. 14), as well as to
inform its broader environmental management efforts in its various mines. The activities to be
supported under the Project would complement those environmentally-related activities being
supported under the MSRP, and would include:
(i)    development of procedures for mine permitting, inspection, enforcement
reclamation and closure, including methods of financial assurance;
(ii)    development and dissemination of Codes of Practice to enable mine operators to
comply with emergent environmental regulations;
(iii)   assistance to develop environmental monitoring programs to collect data on
ambient air, water, and soil conditions, and on human health impacts at various
COMIBOL mine sites;
(iv)    basic hydrological studies for various COMIBOL mine sites, inter alia to enable
COMIBOL to prepare mitigation plans for properties to be transferred to the
private sector, or closed. Hydrological data would also be used to complement
data sets on geology and geochemistry which are being developed in conjunction
with a pilot Geographic Information System (GIS) under the ongoing MSRP, and
would thereby further the capacity of the GIS to inform site-specific
environmental risk assessment in the mining sector. This would open up
possibilities for more efficient environmental regulation of mining operations; and
(v)    engineering designs for remediation interventions at COMIBOL mines.
The program is estimated to cost US$4.5 million (20% of total Project costs).
C.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
19.   The Project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board
on February 8, 1994. The Bank Group strategy reflected in the CAS focuses on eliminating the
remaining structural constraints to growth and expanding the availability of resources for poverty and



8
human capital development within a sustainable environment. The lending program included in the
CAS contemplates projects falling within three categories: (i) rationalizing the role of the State,
(ii) poverty and human resource development; and (iii) environment and natural resource management.
The proposed Project includes programs germane to two of the previously-mentioned categories,
namely assisting the Government to meet its environmental liabilities arising from privatization, and
fostering private development of the mining and industrial sectors in a more environmentally-friendly
fashion. IDA's ongoing cross-sectoral involvement in industrial, mining, and environmental issues in
Bolivia piaces it in a unique position to mobilize efforts to address the complex issues involved with
pollution abatement there.
D.    Program Objective Categories
20.   The Project would contribute to IDA's environrnent, and private and public sector reform
categones.
E.    Environmental Aspects
21.   The Project is classified as a "B" project, owing to its focus on environmental improvement.
Its design is based on a sectoral environmental assessment (EA) for the mining and industrial sectors,
which was financed by the Government of Sweden and prepared in 1992/93 in consultation with over
forty organizations, including major NGOs. Major findings of the EA were that: (i) there were
significant problems with water pollution; (ii) forthcoming steps to "privatize" COMIBOL's rmines
provided an important opportunity to improve environmental management in mining; and (iii)
programs should be encouraged to improve knowledge of environmental conditions, strengthen
environmental management, and develop consensual approaches for compliance.
F.    Project Costs and Financing
22.   Total Project costs are estimated at US$22.0 mniHion equivalent, as shown in Annex 1, which
also includes a financing plan2. Contingencies include price contingencies, which have been calculated
by applying IDA's projected US dollar average inflation rate of 2.2% per annum for each year in the
project period to the base costs for studies and the laboratory upgrading component and Project
adrministration. The same inflation factor has been applied to local and foreign cost items because it is
assumed that any differential between local and foreign inflation rates will be offset by exchange rate
adjustments. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 7.4 million (US$1 1.0 million equivalent) plus the
expected SDR 5 0 million (US$7.5 million equivalent) in expected cofinancing from the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) would cover 84% of total estimated Project costs; the Government would
provide the balance. The proposed cost-sharing arrangement is within the standard IDA cost-sharing
ratio for Bolivia (85%). Retroactive financing for up to SDR 400,000 (approximately US$600,000
equivalent) wvould be provided to finance Project start-up costs incurred after October 31, 1995, and
initially covered by bridge financing provided by the Government. In order to make optimal use of
NDF and IDA resources, while respecting their respective procurement requirements, NDF resources
2 Estimates of Bolivian taxes (e.g. on consulting services) are shown as an explicit line item, since they will need
to be budgeted for counterpart funding.



9
would be concentrated on financing consultants' services for the Secretariat of Mines and MSDE
(Annex 5B). The proposed IDA credit would be made on standard IDA terms, with a 40 year
repayment period. The terms of the proposed NDF cofinancing would be similar to those for IDA. It
is expected that the IDA credit and foreign cofinancing would be frilly committed within four years
following effectiveness.
G.    Project Implementation
1.    Project Organization and Management
23.   The Borrower would be the Republic of Bolivia, represented by the Ministry of Finance.
Appropriate internal agreements would delegate to MSDE the responsibility for implementing the
regulatory studies and the laboratory upgrading component. Similarly, the Secretariat of Mines in
MED would be delegated responsibility for implementing studies, training, and investment programs
related to remediation activities in the mining sector, including those activities for which COMIBOL
would be the direct beneficiary. MED would carry out technical assistance activities and eligible
subprojects on COMIBOL's behalf under the terms of an agreement between MED and COMNIBOL.
MSDE would carry out laboratory upgrading programs on beneficiaries' (IG, IE or IBNORCA) behalf
on the basis of agreements between MSDE and the respective institutions. The Central Bank would be
designated to maintairn the Special Accounts (para. 3 8).
24.   MSDE  would implement its components of the Project through an Environmental
Coordinating Unit (ECU) located in the Subsecretariat of Environment, and headed by an
Environmental Project Coordinator (EPC). The EPC and key staff to be financed in whole or in part
by foreign resources under the Project would have qualifications, experience and terms of employment
acceptable to IDA. The ECU would have sufficient budgetary and decision-making authority to carry
out its mission, and would have staff adequately trained inter alia in the procurement, financial
management, and reporting requirements of the Bolivian public sector as well as IDA and NDF. The
ECU's staff would be complemented by at least one filil-time expert with broad experience in managing
environmental management studies. The EPC would have access to resources to hire additional
expertise as required. During the implementation of MSDE's programs, the EPC would involve the
staff of relevant line units in MSDE as local counterpart staff e.g. for the two studies to develop the
regulatory framework (para. 10). In this way, knowledge gained through the Project would be
'hiainstreamed"within MSDE.
25.   The ECU would inter alia: (i) procure the regulatory framework studies, as well as consulting
services, equipment, civil works, and training activities on behalf of beneficiaries under the laboratory
upgrading component; (ii) communicate with IDA and NDF concerning Project activities assigned to
MSDE, and ensure that IDA and NDF (as relevant) procurement, disbursement, auditing, and
reporting requirements would be satisfied for the activities supported by the respective financing
agencies. It would also share with IDA environmental monitoring information on the impact of
Project-financed remediation investments in the mining sector which MSDE (or the relevant authority)
would have access to in its role as the environmental monitoring authority under Bolivian law; (iii)
submit Withdrawal Applications to MSDE's Special Account (para. 38), IDA or NDF (as appropriate)
for expenditures related to the studies, laboratory upgrading, and project coordination which the ECUJ



10
would be directly responsible for incurring; (iv) collaborate with IDA and NDF to conduct periodic
Project supervision missions, as well as annual and mid-term reviews of progress with MSDE's
programs under the Project, and to prepare an Operational Plan and Implementation Completion
Report within six months following Project completion (para. 45); and (v) forward to IDA on behalf of
the Central Bank monthly reports of transactions in MSDE's Special Account, including its balance
(para. 46). Beneficiaries under the laboratory upgrading component would prepare proposals for
assistance to address their most pressing development needs, for consideration by the EPC and IDA
within the criteria established under the Project (para. 12). They would therefore be expected to
assume a proactive role in devising their programs for inclusion under the Project. In order to obtain
the commitment of stakeholders in studies (e.g. for pollution prevention) requiring active participation
from private firms, ECU would refine the objectives and scope of work for the studies in consultation
with relevant national Secretariats and national and regional industry associations, and would carry out
enterprise-level diagnostic work through independent consultants selected in consultation with such
associations. Such consultants would apply adequate safeguards to respect the confidentiality of
proprietary information.
26.   The Secretariat of Mines would implement its programs through a Sectoral Coordinating Unit
(SCU), headed by a Sectoral Project Coordinator (SPC), which would procure all consulting services,
goods and works financed through MED under the Project. This would include all activities for which
COMIBOL would be direct beneficiary. The SPC and key local and foreign staff to be financed in
whole or in part by foreign resources under the Project would have qualifications, experience and terms
of employment acceptable to IDA. The SCU would have sufficient budgetary and decision-making
authority to carry out its mission effectively, and would have staff adequately trained inter alia in the
procurement, financial management, and reporting requirements of the Bolivian public sector as well as
IDA and NDF. The staff of the SCU would be complemented by at least one expert with broad
experience in supervising the design and execution of remediation works in the mining sector. During
the implementation of MED's programs, the SPC would involve relevant line staff from the Secretariat
of Mines and COMIBOL as local counterpart staff e.g. in the carrying out of various studies. In this
way, knowledge gained through the Project would be 'hiainstreamed" within the key local mining
sector agencies. The SCU would inter alia: (i) forward to IDA proposals for remediation subprojects
in the mining sector, once it had deterrmined that such proposals were complete (para. 28); (ii)
communicate with IDA and NDF concerning Project activities assigned to the Secretariat of Mines,
and ensure that IDA and NDF (as relevant) procurement, disbursement, auditing, and reporting
requirements would be satisfied for such activities; and (iii) submit Withdrawal Applications to the
MED's Special Account (para. 38), IDA or NDF, as appropriate, for expenditures related to Project
components which it was responsible for executing; (iv) collaborate with IDA and NDF to conduct
periodic Project supervision missions, as well as annual and mid-term reviews of progress with its
Secretariat's programs under the Project, and to prepare an Operational Plan and Implementation
Completion Report within six months following Project completion (para. 45); and (v) forward to IDA
on behalf of the Central Bank monthly statements of transactions under the Special Account for MED,
including its balance (para. 46).
27.   Prior to credit effectiveness, the Borrower would adopt an Operational Manual, satisfactory to
IDA, containing: (i) drafts of contractual arrangements between the Ministry of Finance and MSDE
and MED; MSDE and the beneficiaries under the laboratory component; and the Secretariat of Mines



I1
and COMIBOL; (ii) eligibility criteria for selecting remediation investments in the mining sector; (iii)
terms of reference for the two regulatory studies to be carried out by MSDE, and the technical
assistance programs, respectively, to inventory labs and assess demand for environmental testing
services, and to design the policy and institutional framework for a national standardization and quality
system; (iv) terms of reference for financial audits of Project accounts; and (v) agreed Project
monitoring indicators.
28.   COMIBOL would propose eligible subprojects to the SCU for submission to IDA for IDA's
authorization to receive financing under the remediation program, and for IDA's agreement upon
procurement arrangements. As subprojects are implemented, the procurement methods to be
followed would be as described in paras. 30-37. Subproject proposals would include:
(i)    certification by the SCU that the proposed investment had been selected on the basis
of the eligibility criteria included in the Operating Manual;
(ii)    proposed engineering designs, proposed procurement methods, and draft procurement
documents requiring IDA's prior review;
(iii)   any environmental assessments required under Bolivian law or Regulations, or IDA
policy. In instances where such environmental assessments revealed potential negative
environmental impacts from the proposed subproject, the subproject proposal would
provide for a mitigation program, satisfactory to IDA,
(iv)    evidence that all requisite permits required under Bolivian laws and Regulations,
including those required by MSDE (or the relevant authority) under such laws and
Regulations, had been obtained;
(v)    evidence that a proposed monitoring program to assess subproject impact had been
agreed with MSDE (or the relevant authority), and that MSDE (or the relevant
authority) would share monitoring data with IDA, and
(vi)   evidence that any special arrangements necessary for the implementation and
sustainability of the subproject had been agreed between involved parties in a fashion
consistent with relevant IDA policies and practices in Bolivia (e.g. regarding projects
on intemational waterways, or resettlement).
The SPC would propose to IDA all subprojects which complied with the above requirements for
financing under the Project's remediation investment program. Contracting of consulting services,
equipment and works for remediation would be carried out by the SCU, in accordance with
procurement procedures agreed under the Project.
29.   As part of Project supervision, IDA, the ECU, SCU and COMIBOL would participate in
routine Project supervision missions, normnally at six-monthly intervals. Each year starting in 1996, one
of these missions would conduct an annual review (not later than March 31 of the respective year),
inter alia to identify priority actions for implementation attention and forthcoming activities to be



12
addressed in the annual implementation plans to be prepared, respectively, by the ECU and the SCU
(para. 45). A mid-term review of Project execution would be carried out by IDA, the ECU and the
SCU not later than March 31, 1998 to take stock of accomplishments and introduce agreed corrective
measures, on the basis of implementation experience gained to date. Such review would cover inter
alia: (i) the adequacy of institutional arrangements and implementation of the various components of
the Project; and (ii) a discussion of the findings and recommendations of all studies financed under the
Project. Project progress would be judged through specific monitoring indicators (Annex 7).
2.    Procurement
30.   Under the Project, works would include construction and repair of small tailings dams and
settling ponds, construction of drainage canals, moving of mine tailings, paving of playgrounds, and
erection of fences as safety barriers, in the case of remediation investments, and construction of simple
buildings or installations, in the case of the laboratory component. Goods would include office
equipment and four-wheel drive vehicles, laboratory equipment, pumps, water treatment plants,
impermeable liners, and piping. Consulting services in the areas of engineering design and a variety of
multi-disciplinary technical, economic and financial services would be required.
31.   Procurement of goods, works, and services financed by IDA under the Project would be
carried out, respectively, in accordance with IDA's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995" and "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981." Items financed by the NDF would be
procured in accordance with its guidelines, which provide inter alia for Nordic Competitive Bidding.
32.   IDA-financed consultants to advise the ECU regarding aspects of Project implementation or as
participants under the Regulatory Studies would typically be internationally-recruited individuals with
specific expertise hired on an ad hoc basis to complement experts financed by NDF. IDA-financed
consultants to advise the SCU regarding the design and execution of remediation subprojects would
likely be hired through an internationally-recruited firm. Consultants (promotores) to be hired by the
Secretariat of Mines to advise mining communities on means to attract non-Project resources (para. 14)
would be locally-hired individuals. Consultants under the laboratory component would likely be a
combination of firms and individuals, as appropriate to the varied assignments expected to emerge
under the program.  In this regard, the contract for the initial phase of the study to inventory
laboratories has been let (following IDA procedures), for execution with Government of Canada
funding. In order to preserve continuity in expertise, it is likely that the two subsequent phases of the
study (estimated to cost US$44,000 equivalent) would be awarded on a sole-source basis using IDA
funding.
33.   Wherever possible, services, goods or works for various tasks would be grouped to limit the
number of contracts required, and achieve economies of scale and scope.  In the case of the
remediation activities for the mining sector, it is expected that a single firm would be contracted by the
SCU to provide advisory services to the Secretariat of Mines regarding the adequacy of proposed
engineering designs, environmental assessments and monitoring programs for subprojects, and to
supervise subproject implementation. Goods, works and engineering design services for subprojects
would be identified on a site-by-site basis, and procured on the basis of appropriately packaged lots.



13
An Implementation Schedule for each Project component, a Summary of Procurement Arrangements,
and a Schedule of Procurement Actions are included, respectively, at Annexes 2, 3 and 4.
34.   Procurement Methods. In order to accommodate the broad range in the size and type of
contracts likely to be financed under the Project, the following procurement methods are proposed.
For procurement of (i) civil works, ICB procedures would be applied for contracts exceeding US$3.0
million equivalent in value, NCB procedures would be used for individual contracts with values
exceeding US$250,000 but not exceeding US$3.0 million equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
US$5.2 million equivalent, lump-sum fixed-price contracts, awarded on the basis of three
quotations, would be used for minor works valued at US$250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$1.7 million equivalent.   For procurement of (ii) goods and
equipment, ICB would be applied for contracts exceeding US$150,000. For specialized equipment
for the laboratory component which is only available from a limited number of suppliers with local
service/maintenance facilities (a) LIB would be used for individual contracts valued over US$50,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000; (b) international shopping would be used for
individual contracts valued at more than US$25,000 but not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 100,000; and (c) national shopping would be used for individual contracts
valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000. For non-
laboratory equipment and other goods and materials (a) NCB would be used for individual
contracts valued at more than US$25,000 but not exceeding US$150,000, up to an aggregate amount
of US$200,000 equivalent, and (b) national shopping would be used for individual contracts valued
at US$25,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent. Special
provisions for national competitive bidding and the employment of consultants have been agreed with
the Borrower, in order to align procurement practices under the Project with IDA's requirements.
35.   Standard Documents. The use of standard bidding documents (SBDs) issued by FDA is
required by FDA's 'Guidelines for Procurement" for all ICB and LIB procurement. In addition, the
use of SBDs issued by the Borrower and acceptable to IDA would be mandatory for all procurement
under NCB. Similarly, for consulting services contracts exceeding US$150,000 equivalent in value,
the use of standard forms of contract issued by rDA would be mandatory, as would the use of standard
forms of contract issued by the Borrower and acceptable to IDA for consultants contracts of less than
US$150,000 equivalent in value. NDF would negotiate separately the procurement documents to be
used under its financing.
36.   Prior to issuance, FDA would review: (i) all engineering designs; (ii) all consultants' TORs,
short lists (for firms) and qualifications (for individuals), and evaluation criteria for firm selection; (iii)
all consultants' contracts valued at US$50,000 or more for firms, or US$10,000 or more for
individuals; (iv) all works contracts procured through ICB, or valued at more than US$0.5 million
equivalent, and the first NCB contract for works prepared by the SCU or ECU, as the case may be;
and (v) all ICB or LIB contracts for goods, and the first NCB contract for goods prepared by the SCU
or the ECU, as the case may be. fDA would be assisted in these regards by the consultants hired to
provide advisory services to the ECU and SCU. In addition to the documentation provided for prior
review as stated above, all other procurement documentation would be retained by the SCU and the
ECU, as appropriate, and be subject to selective ex-post review by FDA. The above-mentioned



14
arrangements for prior review by IDA will ensure that contracts subject to prior review will represent
approximately 75% of the total value of IDA-financed contracts.
37.   The procurement thresholds, which are consistent with Regional recommendations for IDA
procurement in Bolivia, are summarized in the Table below.



15
Types of Procurement, Prior Review Thresholds, and Disbursement Procedures
(US$000)
Description           Type of          Prior Review Items      Contract       Disbursement
Procurement                                  Value          Procedure
Civil Works        ICB                  All contracts            >3000        Full documentation
NCB                  All contracts exceeding  250-3000     SOEs for all contracts
US$0.5 million, and first             < US$0.5 million,
contract by each                      except for first
implementing unit                    contract by each
implementing unit
Three quotations     Not required             <250         SOEs
Goods              ICB                  All contracts            >150         Full documentation
LIB (lab equipment)    All contracts          >50          Full documentation
for contracts
>US$50,000
NCB (non-lab         First contract by each   25-150       SOEs for all contracts
equipment)          implementing unit                      < US$150,000, except
for first contract by
each implementing
unit
Intemational         Not required             25-50        SOEs
Shopping (lab
equipment)
National Shopping    Not required.            <25          SOEs
(lab and non-lab
equipment)
Consulting Services  Local and foreign  All, but only TORs and   All          Fully documented for
by Firmns          consulting firms     short lists if below                  all contracts >
US$50,000                             US$50,000, otherwise
SOEs
Consulting Services  Local and foreign  All, but only TORs and   All          Fully documented for
by Individuals     individual consultants  qualifications if below            all contracts >
US$10,000                            US$10,000, otherwise
SOEs
3.     Disbursement
38.    In order to give autonomy to MSDE and MED in carrying out Project activities, a Special
Account would be established in US dollars in the Central Bank on behalf of each Ministry. Each
Special Account would bear its own authorized allocation and initial deposit. Within the overall



16
authorized allocation of US$800,000 under the credit, US$300,000 would be allocated to the Special
Account for MSDE and US$500,000 would be allocated to the Special Account for MED. The
authorized allocation for each Special Account is based upon four months' estimated average
disbursements for activities to be implemented by the associated implementing agency. The validity of
all Applications for Withdrawal requesting payments from any Special Account, including those
Applications based upon Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), would be certified by the ECU or the
SCU, as relevant.
39.   Under Project Administration, external sources would purport to cover 100% of net-of-tax
incremental expenditures for key local staff, goods, equipment and works related to the ECU and
SCUs, and a declining share of net-of-tax incremental operating costs for the ECU or SCU over the
four year Project period. Taking into account average tax rates levied on consultants' services and
goods and works acquired in Bolivia, this principle implies that external sources would finance: (i)
100% of expenditures under approved foreign or local consultants' contracts, (ii) 100% of foreign or
ex-factory local expenditures for goods and equipment; (iii) 84% of expenditures for locally-procured
imported equipment and installation charges; (iv) in the case of the ECU, 85% of incremental operating
costs, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000 equivalent; 56% of incremental operating costs, up
to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 equivalent; and 28% of incremental operating costs thereafter;
and (v) in the case of the SCU, 85% of incremental operating costs, up to an aggregate amount of
US$250,000 equivalent; 56%  of incremental operating costs, up to an aggregate amount of
US$350,000 equivalent; and 28% of incremental operating costs thereafter.
40.   Under the regulatory studies, laboratory, and technical assistance for environmental
management in mining components, external sources would purport to finance 100% of net-of-tax
expenditures. Taking into account average tax rates levied on consultants' services and goods and
works acquired in Bolivia, this principle implies that external sources would finance: (i) 100% of
expenditures under approved consultants' contracts; (ii) 100% of foreign or ex-factory local
expenditures for goods and equipment; and (iii) 84% of expenditures for locally-procured imported
equipment, installation charges, and works.
41.   Under the remediation component, external sources would purport to finance 100% of net-
of-tax expenditures for consultants' services and 100% of net-of-tax expenditures for goods and works.
Taking into account average tax rates levied on consultants' services and goods and works acquired in
Bolivia, this principle implies that extemal sources would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures under
approved consultants' contracts; (ii) 100% of foreign or ex-factory local expenditures for goods and
equipment; (iii) 84% of expenditures for locally-procured imported equipment and installation charges;
and (iv) 84% of expenditures for civil works.
42.   Under training, external sources would finance 100% of associated expenditures.
43.   Expenditures would be disbursed against SOEs certified by the relevant implementing agency
(i.e. ECU or SCU, as the case may be) for: (i) all contracts for works valued at less than US$0.5
million equivalent, except for the first contract procured through NCB by each implementing unit; (ii)
all contracts for goods valued at US$150,000 equivalent or less procured through NCB or national or
intemational Shopping, except for the first contract procured through NCB by each implementing unit;



17
(iii) all contracts valued at less than US$50,000 for consulting services by firms, and US$10,000 for
consulting services by individuals; and (iv) training or operating costs. Detailed documentation
evidencing expenditures would be retained by the implementing agencies and would be available for the
required audits (para. 47) and for the review of IDA supervision missions.
44.   The proposed credit is expected to take about three years to commit and seven years to
disburse. A Summary of Disbursement Arrangements under the IDA credit is included at Annex 5, and
a Schedule of Forecast Disbursements by financing source is included at Annex 6.
4.    Monitoring, Reporting, Financial Management and Auditing
45.   The ECU and the SCU would each maintain appropriate accounting records in which all
financial transactions under the Project would be registered. These records would be based upon an
appropriate Chart of Accounts to identify funds received from all sources (IDA, NDF, and the
Government) and register all expenditures, classifying them to provide timely information useful for
financial monitoring of Project execution. The records would form the basis for generating monthly
financial statements to inform the EPC and SPC on the status of implementation of those Project
activities falling under their respective jurisdictions. Beginning in July, 1996, the ECU and the SCU
would each prepare and forward to IDA semi-annual reports (respectively by January 31 and July 31
of each year) on the status of implementation of those Project activities failing under their respective
jurisdictions. The aforementioned monthly financial statements would provide the financial data to be
included in these semi-annual reports. Moreover, as part of its reporting, the ECU would share with
IDA environmental monitoring information on the impact of Project-financed remediation investments
in the mining sector which MSDE (or the relevant authority) would collect in its role as the
environmental monitoring authority under Bolivian law. To facilitate preparation of the previously-
mentioned reports, COMNIBOL would provide the SCU, in a timely fashion, with: (i) a status report on
its various environmentally-related programs, including any studies or technical assistance activities
financed under the Project; (ii) a status report on the execution of its various eligible subprojects,
including cost and financing data related thereto; (iii) a status report regarding the environmental
impact of its Project-financed remediation works, based upon monitoring programs agreed with
MSDE (or the relevant authority) as part of the subproject design (para. 28); and (iv) a note
highlighting any special issues related to Project execution. In instances where issues were highlighted
for resolution, the ECU or SCU, as relevant, would propose recommended actions. By October 31 of
each year, beginning in 1996, the ECU and the SCU would each prepare and forward to IDA an
annual implementation plan detailing project activities contemplated for the subsequent calendar
year, and outlining counterpart funding requirements. These estimates of counterpart funding
requirements would inform the budgetary requests by the respective agencies during the annual
formulation of the national budget. Within six months of Project completion, IDA, the ECU, the SCU
and all beneficiary institutions under the Project would collaborate in producing: (i) an Operational
Plan, indicating how Project activities would be sustained; and (ii) an Implementation Completion
Report to assess Project effectiveness and its contribution to sustainable development activities.
46.   The Central Bank, which would be the depository for funds in the Special Accounts, would
provide the ECU and the SCU each with separate monthly statements reflecting the deposits and
withdrawals in each Special Account. The ECU and the SCU would forward these monthly



18
statements to IDA, in conjunction with their respective monthly Withdrawal Applications soliciting
funds from the Credit Account to replenish the respective Special Accounts. Moreover, the ECU and
the SCU would each keep separate records for all financial transactions affecting the Special Account
for the respective entity. As before (para. 45), these records would be based upon an appropriate
Chart of Accounts so that funds from IDA, NDF, and the Government may be accounted for
separately. At the end of each year, the ECU and the SCU would prepare annual Project Financial
Statements pertaining, respectively, to Project activities under the ECU and the SCU.
47.   The annual Project Financial Statements pertaining, respectively, to Project activities under the
ECU and the SCU, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with
IDA's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing. Each audit report would include the auditor's
opinion on the fairness of presentation of the Sources and Applications of Project Funds during the
year, and the Project Assets and Liabilities as at year end. The audit reports would also include
separate opinions on: (i) the eligibility of transactions in the Special Accounts during the year, and on
the closing balance of these accounts; and (ii) on the eligibility of expenditures claimed under the
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) disbursement procedure. The ECU and the SCU would each submit
its respective audit report to IDA. All audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months
following the close of each fiscal year.
5.    Benefits and Risks
48.   In the short run, the Project would help remediate priority environmental problems in mining
communities. This would yield economic benefits from improvements in human health, economic
infrastructure, or ecosystems, and from the removal of impediments to fresh private investments, which
would raise incomes. While economic returns from the various remediation subprojects would depend
upon local conditions, investments in several other Bank and IDA-supported environmental projects
have estimated rates of retums exceeding 20% arising from improvements in human health. The
Project would also help upgrade testing laboratory capabilities, thus assisting with development of a
credible national environmental monitoring capacity. In the medium-term, the Project would help build
policy and institutional capacity to mitigate future pollution flows in mining and industry. It would also
help improve worker health and safety conditions in existing and future mining and industrial
enterprises. In the longer-term, through its programs to encourage pollution prevention at the firm
level, the Project would facilitate development of more efficient and sustainable mining and industrial
sectors. Moreover, through training programs for counterparts during implementation of various
studies, the Project would help strengthen the national manpower base in environmental management.
49.   The major technical risk is that the project design would be inappropriate. This risk has been
managed by basing it on the findings of a sectoral EA, and reviewing Project components carefully
with stakeholders. The major economic risk is that remediation funds would be misallocated. This has
been managed by agreeing with the Secretariat of Mines upon a methodology and a set of criteria that
would be applied to select only those investments that would have high benefits relative to costs for
financing under the Project (Annex 8). The major implementation risks are that: (i) MSDE's limited
institutional capacity and experience with IDA and NDF projects may lead to delays in inter-
institutional coordination and Project execution; (ii) identification and implementation of investments
under the remediation component may be delayed and Project disbursements may lag; and (iv) lack of



19
counterpart funds could delay execution of remediation works. These risks will, respectively, be
managed by: (i) providing a team of consultants to advise the ECU; reviewing IDA and NDF
procedures carefully with counterparts during Project preparation and start-up; and agreeing upon
standard procurement documents early in the Project; (ii) agreeing upon a core program of remediation
activities in the mining sector, and a priority set of activities under the laboratory upgrading program
during Project preparation; and (iii) financing an ample share of remediation investment costs from
external sources, and reviewing forthcoming counterpart funding requirements during annual reviews
timed to inform annual budget decisions.
IIL AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Agreements
50.   Agreements were confirmed during negotiations regarding Project scope, organization and
administration. In addition: (i) criteria for selecting remediation investments in the mining sector have
been agreed with MSDE and the Secretariat of Mines; (ii) a core program of immediate and longer-
term remediation activities in the mining sector has been agreed; and (iii) a priority set of activities
under the laboratory upgrading program has been agreed, and initial drafts of Terms of Reference have
been prepared.
51.   Implementation of the proposed credit would be subject to the following additional special
actions:
(a)    As conditions of Effectiveness: evidence that: (i) the Government has adopted a
statement of sectoral policy to assign environmental liabilities for pollution stocks in the
mnining sector; (ii) a rmining sector environmental unit has been established with the
legal authority, the necessary staff, and a clearly-defined institutional role to administer
environrnental matters in the mining sector; (iii) the SCU has been established with the
legal authority and the necessary staff, resources, and autonomy to carry out Project
activities on behalf of the Secretariat of Mines; (iv) the NDF Loan Agreement has
become effective; (v) the Operational Manual (para. 27) has been adopted by the
Borrower; (vi) the ECU has been established with the legal authority and the necessary
staff, resources, and autonomy to carry out Project activities on behalf of MSDE.
(b)   As (i) a general condition of disbursement for components executed by MSDE
(except for equipment, advisory services and incremental operating costs for the ECU),
a contract for advisory services to the ECU shall have been signed, and at least one
adviser, with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, shall be in place in
Bolivia; and (ii) as specific conditions of disbursement for each laboratory upgrading
program executed by MSDE on behalf of a beneficiary under the laboratory upgrading
component (a) IDA shall have approved the respective laboratory upgrading program;
and (b) a contract shall have been signed between MSDE and the respective beneficiary
authorizing MSDE to carry out the respective laboratory upgrading program on behalf
of such beneficiary.



20
(c)    As (i) a general condition of disbursement for components executed by MED
(except for equipment, advisory services and incremental operating costs for the SCU),
a contract for advisory services to the SCU shall have been signed, and at least one
adviser, with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, shall be in place in
Bolivia; and (ii) as specific conditions of disbursement for each eligible subproject
under the remediation investment component (a) IDA shall have approved the
respective eligible subproject; and (b) a contract shall have been signed between MED
and COMIBOL authorizing MED to carry out the respective subproject for the benefit
of COMIBOL.
B.    Recommendation
52.   The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 7.4 million
(US$ 1.0 million equivalent) on terms and conditions listed in the previous paragraphs.



21
ANNEXES






22
Annex 1
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Table 1: Estimated Total Project Cost
Item                                             Local Cost  Foreign Costs    Total
A. Technical Assistance for Regulatory                 0.8            3.2      4.0
Framework
B. Laboratory Upgrading                                0.6             1.4     2.0
C. Remediation Investments                             3.0            3.0      6.0
D. Studies and advisory services for                   0.7            3.8      4.5
mining sector environmental management
E. Project Administration: ECU-MSDE                    0.5            0.8      1.3
SCU-MED                      0.5            0.6      1.1
F. Local Taxes                                         2.5            0.0      2.5
G. Total Base Cost                                     8.6           12.8    21.4
H. Price Contingencies                                 0.3            0.3      0.6
Total Cost                                                    13.1    22.0
Table 2: Projected Financing Plan
Source of Finance                             Local Cost    Foreign Costs    Total
IDA                                                  4.1             6.9      11.0
Nordic Development Fund                              1.3             6.2       7.5
Government: Local Taxes                              2.5             0.0       2.5
: Other Counterpart                      1.0             0.0       1.0
Total Financing                               8.9             13.1     22.0
9/29/95



23
Amnex 2
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Time-bound Implementation plan for each Project component
(by calendar year)
Component                                         1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
1. Consultant Services
a.  Laboratory component                            xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
b.  Remediation investments                         xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
c.  Regulatory studies                              ::::::::::: xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx
d.  TA for environmental management for mining       ::::::::xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx
2. Goods/Equipment/ and Installation
a.  ECU and SCU                                     xxxxxxxxxx
b.  Laboratory component                                     xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
c.  Remediation investments                                  :       xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
d.  TA for environmental management for mining       ::::::::xx xxxx
3. Civil Works
a.  Remediation investments                                  ::::::xxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx
b.  Laboratory component                                     :::::::::x xxxxxxx
4. Operating costs for ECU and SCU                     xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
Symbol
:::::::: Subproject Selection and Procurement
xxxxx Implementation



24
Annex 3
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Element                 Procurement Method                    NBF             Total Costs
ICB          NCB            Other
1. Consulting services        --             --            4.3             7.3                11.6
(2.4)                             (2.4)
2. Goods/ Equipment           0.0           0.2            0.5'            0.0                0.7
(0.0)         (0.2)          (0.4)                             (0.6)
3. Civil Works                0.0           5.2            1.74            0.0                6.9
(0.0)         (4.5)          (1 5)                             (6.0)
4. Training                   0.0           0.0             0.2            0.2                0.4
(0.0)         (0.0)          (0. 1)                            (0.1)
5. Costs forproject           0.(           0.0            2.4             0.0                2.4
administration               (0.()          (0.0)          (1.9)                             (1.9)
Total                         0.0           5.2            9.3             7.5               22.0
(0.0)         (4.5)          (6.5)                             (I 1.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N1BF is Not Bank Financed.
3 US$200,000 LIB; US$300,000 National and International Shopping.
Three quotations.



CATEGORY                           TENDER DOCUMENTS*    PROCUREMENT                            NO OBJECTION-CONTRACT   lIPLEMENTATION
1. Consultant services
(a) Laboratory Component                 January 1996                  March 1996***                 May and June 1996           July 1996 to March 1998
(b) Remediation Investments           January to March 1996              April 1996                  May and June 1996           July 1996 to March 1998
(c) Regulatory Studies                January to March 1996        April to December 1996          January to March 1997          April 1997 to September
1999
2. (oods/Equipment/and Installation
(a)ECU                                   January 1996                  March 1996***                     March 1996               April to December 1996     M    0
(b) Laboratory Component                    April 1996               May to October 1996        November 1996 to January 1997   February 1997 to December  
1998                    Z
ot H
(c) Remediation Investments                January 1997             February to July 1997           August to October 1997      November 1997 to December   
1998              9     C
3. Civil Works
(a) Remediation Investments          January 1996 to Dec. 1997    April 1996 to September 1998    October 1996 to December 1999   November 1996 to December   ;,.
2000
(b) ILaboratory component                 September 1996          October 1996 to March 1997       April to September 1997       October 1997 to Dcc. 1998
4. Staff Costsfor ECU and SCU           October 1995***              January to June 1996               January 1996             January 1996 to Dec. 2000
* from invitation to recommendation                                                                                                                                O
**TORs, short list, etc.
with financing from proposed Government bridge financing for MSDE and MED                                                                                      H
I/ Assumes Government bridge financing available from January 1996
x



26
Annex 5A
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Disbursements (US$ equivalent)
IDA-Financed Elements
Category                                          Amount                       Percentage
1. Consultant services
(a) Laboratory Component - MSDE               ],100,00t
(b) Regulatorv studies - MSDE                   1 00,0t)t
100% of expenditures under approved foreign or
(c) Studies for MED                             400,000   local consultants' contracts
(d) Advisory services
i)  ECU - MSDE                               50,000
ii) SCU - MED                               500,000
iii) Mining Communities                     200,000
2. GoodslEquipment/lnstallation
(a) ECU - MSDE                                  100,000   100% of foreign or ex-factory local expenditures
(b) SCU - MED                                    50,000
(c) Laboratory Component - MSDE                 300,000   84% of expenditures for locally-procured imported
equipment and installation charges
(d) Remediation Investments - MED               175,000
(e) Studies for MED                              25,000
3. Civil Works
(a) Laboratory Component - MSDE                 450,000   84% of expenditures
(b) Remediation Investments - MED             5,550,000
4. Operating Costs for Project Administration
a) ECU-MSDE                                     800,000   85% of incremental operating costs, up to an
aggregate amount of US$400,000 equivalent; 56%
of incremental operating costs, up to an aggregate
amount of US$600,000 equivalent; and 28% of
incremental operating costs thereafter.
b) SCU-MED                                       450,000   85% of incremental operating costs, up to an
aggregate amount of US$250,000 equivalent; 56%
of incremental operating costs, up to an aggregate
amount of US$350,000 equivalent; and 28% of
incremental operating costs thereafter.
5. Training
(a) MSDE                                        50,000   100%
(b) MED                                        100,000
6. Unallocated                                    600,000
Total                                     11,000,000



27
Annex 5B
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Disbursements (US$ equivalent)
Nordic Development Fund-Financed Elements
Category                                      Amount                         Percentage
1. Consultant services
(a) Regulatory studies - MSDE             3,300,000
(b) Studies - MED                         2,400,000   100% of expenditures under approved foreign or local
(b) Studie  MEconsultants' contracts
(c) Advisory services
a) ECU-MSDE                             250,000
2. Unallocated
(a) ECU- MSDE                            1,550,000
(b) SCU-MED
7otal                                  7,500,000
10/17/95



28
Annex 6
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements, Detailing Expected IDA Financing,
Government Counterpart Funds and Cofinancing
(US$ million equivalent)
(by calendar year)
Financial Sources     1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002    Total
IDA                         0.5      1.5    2.0      3.0    2.0      1.0     1.0      11.0
Nordic Development Fund      1.1    2.5      2.3     1.5    0.1      0.0     0.0       7.5
Government                  0.5     0.5     0.7     0.7      0.6     0.3     0.2       3.5
Total                       2.1     4.5      5.0    5.2      2.7     1.3     1.2      22.0
11/13/95



Component                     Objective                                       Output                                              Benchniark of Impact                          Responsible Agencies
a) Advisory         Enihance expertise among Bolivian     Increased competence of local professionals to          Evidence of greater understanding of and ability to formulate  MSDE coniponents:
Services for ECU    professionals on environmental         manage environmental issues and policies.              environmental policies and management systems based on         ECU.
and SCU.            issues in tde industrial and mining                                                           science and economics. Such evidence would he obtained
sectors, based oii actual conditions.                                                        through discussions with persons benefiting from the advisory    MED components:
Increase local capacity to manage                                                            services.                                                      SCU.
issues of environmental pollution.
b) Regulatory       Strengthen nationial                   Completion  of two studies to improve                  At national level: By project month 48, the following will     MSDE, in coordination      |
framework           envirosmental nianagemeii              environmental niariagenient, at both die national and  have occurred: (i1 identification of environnmental problems,  with other national and
studies.            policies and management                the local levels (i.e. in Santa Cruz, Cochabamba. and    settinig of priorities, and design of policies to address them; (ii)  local Government bodies;
capabilities.                         El Alto). Studies would define specific action         design of an improved eisvironmental monitoring system and     industry associations;
progranis.                                            linkage of environmental data collection to development and    regional universities in La
Build environmental                                                                          implementation of specific measures to address most serions    Paz, Santa Cruz, and
mianagement capability at local level.  Identification of mines and industries with significant    environmental problems  iii) formulation of enforcement  Cochabamba.
environmental inmpacts.                                mechanisms and associated standards to address major                                           i
pollution problems at least in mining and industrial sectors:
Development of baseline ambient water quality data    (iv) development of an environmental management approach
for priority surface and subterranean water bodies.   incorporating a variety of management instruments, which is
capable of responditug flexibly to changing social, economic                              |
Evaluation of potential costs and benefits of pollution    and technical factors.
prevention in the leather-tanning, meat, and brick-
making industries in Cochabamba, sugar refineries      At local level: By project nionth 48, MSDE, oLher government                                       to
and distilleries in Santa Cruz, and selected cement    bodies at all levels, and industry associations in Santa Ciui,
plants, and identification of priorities for pollution  Cochabamba and El Alto will have agreed on environmental
nianagement in El Alto.                                management prionties at the local level and developed action                                  ,
plans -- with costs -- for etivironmental improveinent.
Development of guidelines, procedures, and training
to assist MSDE and the Secretariats of Mining and                                                                                                  -t
Industry to implement EIA Regulations for
investments in the respective sectors.
Design of a system of standards, incentives and
enforcement mechanisms to encourage adoption of
iniproved environmental practices at the firm level.



Component                     Objective                                       Output                                              Benchmark of Impact                           Responsible Agencies
c) Laboratory       Upgrade quality of laboratory testing   Agreement between Govemment and private sector        By project month 12: (i) national agreement on policies,      MSDE
Component           services in Bolivia to foster          stakeholders regarding organization of laboratory      institutional framework, and implementation plan to establish
development of credible               testing services in Bolivia, related legal and         credible system for encouraging and vefifying competence of    Instituto de
environniental standard-setting and   institutional framework, and division of roles and     labs, particularly those supporting environmental initiatives;  Investigaciones
monitoring system.                    responsibilities regarding: (i) setting and diffusion of    (ii) completion of inventory of Bolivian testing labs, and  Geologicas (IG).
regulatory standards; (ii) setting and diffusion of   classification by areas of conmpetence; and (iii) completion of
implementing standards; (iii) accreditation of labs;  market survey to assess likely demand for various types of     Instituto de Ecologia (IE).
and (iv) processes to upgrade the quaLty of            laboratory testing services within 3-5 year time horizon.
laboratory testing services in Bolivia.                                                                              IBNORCA                          0
By project month 20, development of five-year business plan
Development of core set of laboratories with adequate   to upgrade lab proficiency and fulfill anticipated demand for
proficiency to provide range of environmental testing   testing services, within agreed institutional framework.
services in accordance with intemationally-accepted
standards.                                             By project month 30, accreditation by recogilized body of at
least one lab to accomplish environmental testing in each of
Development of core team with proficiency in "best     following disciplines: inorganics, including heavy metals;                               l
practice" environimemtal monitoring and sampling      organics, including biologicals; and bio-indicators.
techniques.
By project month 18, establish at least one trained
Improved awareness by Governnient, productive         einvironmental monitoring and sampling crew, including at
sectors, and local laboratory and scientific          least two certitied technicians, together with appropriate                                   2. .q
communities regarding value of credible                environmental sampling and monitoring equipment.
mneasurement-related services (e.g. for calibration.
standardization, testing) for envirotnicntal           Adopt sufficient intemational environniental implementing
monitoring, product quality improvement, and trade     standards to fulfill 25% (by project month 18): 50% (by
developnment.                                          project month 24); 75% (by project month 36); of nation's
requiremetits (as identified through policy framework task                               ls
mentioned as first item above).
Implementation of an awareness-building program so that by
project montli 24: (i) all major laboratories, including IG and
lIE, have participated in briefings on the costs and benefits of
accreditation and indicated to MSDE whether or not they will
take actions to achieve accreditation; and (ii) senior nianagers
of at least 100 enterprises and govemrisent agencies have been                                 0
briefed on the linkage between lab accreditation, product
quality, and trade.                                                                            rO
d) Renrediation      Reduce damage to human health,        Reduced damage to human health, economic               On basis of monitoring activities to be agreed for each        MSDE
investments         economitic infrastructure, or          infrastructure, or ecosystem qualitv: increased private   reniediation subproject, demonstrated improvement in ambient
ecosystenis from contamination diue    investmetit in the COMIBOL mines, leading to          air, drinkitsg water, and surface water quality.               SCUJ and COMIBOL.
to mining, and further private        iniproved value for the properties.
investment in COMIBOL mining                                                                 Evidence of increased value of COMIBOL mines due to
coinnmunities for which Governmcnt                                                           renmediation of past cointamination. Such evidence ould be                                       >
bears responsibility for past                                                                obtained through discussions with officials responsible for                               lt ,
contamination.                                                                               administering contracts with private partners.                    _                          w



C omponent                   Objective                                     Output                                            Benchmark of Impact                         Responsible Agencies
e) Technical       Improve environmental                 Development and dissemination of Codes of           By project month 18, adoption of Codes of Practice for
Assistance to       management policies and procedures   Practice to enable compliance by mine operators     small, medium and large mining operations by relevant mining
strengthen         for mining sector, and enable         with environniental Regulations.                    associations, and discussions of such Codes in public fora
environmuental      COMIBOL to carry out technical                                                           organized by SoM and mining associations in at least La Paz,
management in      studies to inform mine-specific       Development of procedures for mine permitting,      Oruro and Potosi.
mining.             environmental management             inspection, enforcement, reclamation and closure.
activities.                          Developmettt                                         By project month 24, adoption by SoM of updated             So                            t
monitopmentgand implementation of environmental     procedures for mine permitting, inspection, enforcement,
monitoring programs at COMIBOL mines,               reclamation and closure reflecting intemational 'best practices"
Carrying out of hydrological studies at COMIBOL      to achieve environmental protection.
mines.                                              (i) By project month 6, define die scope and timing of an    C          i c  
Preparation of engineening designs for remediation    environmental sampling and monitoring program  for pnority    with SoMI    tDnE and (as
interventions at COMIBOL mines,  program to generate information on key human health    aud    yrelevant
indicators and ambient air, water and soil quality to inform  authorties.
identification of priority remediation investments under                                   Z
Project ; (iii) develop and implement site-specific monitoring
programs as part of each remediation subproject financed by                           |
the Project.                                                COMIBOL
(i) By project month 6, define the scope and timing of a
program of hydrological studies for priority COMIBOL
mines; (ii) By project month 12, initiate program of priority
hiydrological studies.
COMIBOL 
By project month 18, initiate designs of remediation
"  subprojects at first COMIBOL sites being remediating.
0N
. *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



32
Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Selection of Sub-Projects for Inclusion under the
Environmental Remediation Component of the Project
I.    Process
A process has been established for the selection of priority investments under the EIMP. This
process contains two major steps, which are detailed in two documents in the Project File. The
first involves selecting the priority mine sites on the basis of the risks they pose to human health
and the environment. The second step involves choosing thepriority investments and activities at
a particular site. The objective of the process is to identify the enviromnental problems which
have high human and economic costs and the investments likely to provide the largest benefits for
the money spent5.
H.    Selecting priority sites
The key steps in selecting priority sites can be summarized as follows.
Stage I: Preparing an inventory of sites and ranking the sites by their hazard potential
The first step in setting priorities is to compile an inventory of the universe of mines/facilities
under consideration for inclusion in the Project. This includes simple basic information such as
the size of the mine, the minerals extracted, and the size of the population likely to be exposed to
environmental pollutants.
The sites in the inventory are then scored using a set of numerical criteria to identify the sites
which are likely to pose the most serious threat to human welfare and the environment. The
scoring system is weighted towards those sites which may generate significant quantities of major
pollutants and which may expose a large population to health damage and economic loss.
5 The two steps are described in detail in the reports "Selecting Sites for Remediation of Environmental Problems
due to Mining in Bolivia" (Draft, October 1995), and "Selecting Highest Priority Investments for Environmental
Management in Mining Communities in Bolivia" (Draft, October 1995).



33
Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
Stage 2: Investigating priority sites
This stage involves visiting the sites that have been identified in Stage 1 as "priority sites" in order
to confirm the initial identification and to assess the nature and extent of hazards present that may
warrant remediation.  The initial visits provide quick overviews or "rapid environmental
assessments" of site conditions, based on visual inspection and collection of immediately available
information. It is intended that the assessments should last no longer than a day or two. Field
workers record the physical conditions at the site, note any evidence of chemical contamination
and would provide a first estimate of the severity of the danger to human inhabitants or to the
environment. It is essential that the assessment cover not only the site itself but also the areas
surrounding the site which may have been affected by contamination from the mine.
Stage 3: Assessing the nature and extent of environmental damage at the site
Sites judged to be a source of serious damage are targeted for a more complete assessment of
environmental conditions (usually called an "audit"). In addition to providing information on the
sources of pollution and possible remediation options, these audits would focus on the human and
economic impacts of the contamination in as much detail as possible. The audits must include
impacts occurring outside the mining property (off-site effects). The main economic impacts to
consider are human health, materials damage, and ecosystem damage. For example, human health
problems can be caused by exposure to environmental pollutants in the air, water, soil, and food.
In Bolivia, the main contaminants from mining harming human health are likely to be lead in the
air, water, soil, and food, arsenic in the air and water, cadmium in the water and food, and, to a
lesser extent, cyanide in the air and water. Therefore, to ascertain whether the mining
contamination is damaging health, the audit would provide data on drinking water quality,
ambient air quality, and data on food and soil contarnination and data on human health.
m.   Choosing investments and activities for environmental management at a particular
site
The information in the audits on sources of pollution and on the damages caused provide the basis
for determining those remedial investments which should be given priority. The basic principle is
that priority be given to those investments which provide the greatest improvement in human
health and environmental conditions for the money spent. As far as possible, the benefits would
be expressed in monetary terms. Where this is not possible, the benefits would be expressed in
terms of physical impacts, such as number of cases of illness avoided, number of bushels of crops
saved, etc. The list of possible actions is then ranked in terms of the benefits and costs of each
proposal. There will be uncertainty in the quantification of the benefits but the methodology
produces, at a minimum, a grouping of projects according to estimated benefits, even where it is
difficult to produce strict rankings for each project. The selected projects are those which have
high benefits, low cost and a predicted high level of effectiveness and reliability.



34
Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
IV.   Present Status
It is planned to carry out environmental audits on fifteen properties. As of July 1995, four of
these audits have been completed. The remaining eleven should be completed by December 1995.
On the basis of the available information, including inspections of some of the sites and
discussions with relevant experts within the industry, a preliminary set of remediation actions has
been identified for the priority sites. This preliminary list is based on identified areas of high
health impact and significant damage due to past mining and on advice from mining specialists on
remedial actions. The actions included are those which have high returns to the remediation
investments, based on present information. The list will be reviewed and will be revised as
necessary as additional environmental audits and other studies -- such as the Oruro Pilot Project --
are completed.  The preliminary investment proposals have been discussed with both the
Secretariat of Mines and the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment and are
considered to address the most important problems arising from environmental contamination due
to mining. Not all the high priority activities will be financed under the Project, however. The
Project would finance, on a pilot basis, only those priority subprojects for environmental
management which (i) had their origin in mining activities; (ii) were the responsibility of the State
under Bolivia's environmental liability provisions; and (iii) could not be addressed with financing
from other sources, such as FIS, FNDR, and FDC. In addition, the Project would finance
remediation activities that remove impediments to private investment in COMIBOL mines in
those cases where legal remedies would be insufficient to alleviate concerns of private investors
about liability for past contamination, and cleanup by COMIBOL would be demonstrably cost-
effective. The methodology for carrying out the cost-benefit studies, and the associated
investment decision criteria, would be included in an Operational Manual to be adopted under the
Project and applied during Project execution.
The following tables present investments and activities that appear likely to generate large
benefits. These are the investments and activities which should receive priority for further data
collection so that full cost-benefit analyses may be carried out.



35
Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Recommended areas for further investigation in Oruro
Recommended investments                                          Benefits
Responsibility of Secretariat of Mines
Seal playgrounds and other play areas that have been built  Reduce brain damage and other health damage due to
on mine waste material.                                  exposure to lead and other heavy metals and metalloids.
Remediate physical threats from old mining operations.   Reduce the risk of accidental injury and death.
Channel and treat acid rock drainage.                     Lengthen the lifetime of underground pipes, reduce the flow
of contamination to both Lake Urn Uru and the region's
aquifers.
Move the San Miguel dump, reshape the old site, and      Reduce damage to human health, infrastructure, aquifers,
construct ditches to collect acid rock drainage.          and Lake Uru Urn. Free land for urban development.
Provide education and technical assistance for environmental    Improve decision-making for environmental management
monitoring, and to develop regulations for new mining    leading to more efficient use of resources.
activities.
Responsibility of the Municipality
Improve quality and quantity of drinking water, reducing the
Repair or replace pipes delivering drinking water to the city,    incidence of waterbome diseases.
Control dust from urban roads built with mine waste.      Reduce the number of respiratory diseases and diseases
caused by exposure to lead and arsenic.



36
Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
Recommended areas for further investigation in Huanuni
Recommended investments                                           Ben fits
Responsibility of Secretariat of Mines
Activities to remove impediments to private investment.   Increase value of property.
Seal playgrounds and other play areas that have been built  Reduce brain damage and other health damage due to
on mine waste material.                                   exposure to lead and other heavy metals and metalloids.
Remediate physical threats from old mining operations.    Reduce the risk of accidental injury and death.
Provide education and technical assistance for environmental    Improve decision-making for environmental management
monitoring, and to develop regulations for new mining    leading to more efficient use of resources.
activities.
Responsibility of the Municipality
Repair or replace pipes delivering drinking water to the city.    Improve quality and quantity of drinking water, reducing the
incidence of waterborne diseases.
Control dust from urban roads built with mine waste.      Reduce the number of respiratory diseases and diseases
caused by exposure to lead and arsenic.
Construct a sewage collection system.                     Reduce incidence of waterbome diseases, and amenity
values associated with living in a cleaner environment.
Responsibility of New Operator or COMIBOL
Ventilate the mine.                                       Reduce the incidence of silicosis and lung cancer.



37
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Recontmended areas for further investigation in Colquiri
Recommnendedl investments                                          Benefits
Responsibility of Secretariat of Mines
Activities to remove impediments to private investment.   Increase value of property.
Remediate physical threats from old mining operations.    Reduce the risk of accidental injury and death.
Seai playgrounds and other play areas that have been built  Reduce brain damage and other health damage due to
on nitne waste material.                                  exposure to lead and other heavy metals and metalloids.
Stabtlize the Homutii tailings datn.                       Reduce the risk of injury, death, and property destniction
fronm a landslide.
Provide education and technical assistance for environmental    Improve decision-making for environmental management
mionitoring, and to develop regulations for new mining     leading to more efficient use of resources.
activities.
Identify the sources and pathways for niercury            Reduce the incidence of mercury poisoning and ecosystem
contamination.                                            damage.
Responsibility of the Municipality
Repair or replace pipes delivering drinking water to the city.    Improve quality and quantity of drinking water, reducing the
incidence of waterbome diseases.
Control dust from urban roads built with mine waste.      Reduce the number of respiratory diseases and diseases
caused by exposure to lead and arsenic.



38
Ainex 9
Bolivia
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY, AND MINING PROJECT
Select Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.    Sectoral Environmental Assessment of the Mining and Industrial (Manufacturing) Sectors.
2.    Upgrading Laboratories to Support a National Environmental Program.
3.    Selecting Sites for Remediation of Environmental Problems due to Mining in Bolivia.
4.    Selecting the Highest Priority Investments for Environmental Management in Mining
Communities in Bolivia.
5.    Selecting the Highest Priority Investments for Environmental Management in Mining
Communities in Bolivia: Workbook.
6.    Laboratory Upgrading: Facility Inventory and Demand Evaluation (Terms of Reference).
7.    Building Environmental Management at the Local Level (Terms of Reference).
8.    Strengthening National Environmental Management (Terms of Reference).
9.    Environmental Audits for Colquiri, Huanuni, San Jose (Oruro).






IBRD 27222
B R A,tZ L
/o abU9)                                                                           BOLIVIA
MAJOR COMIBOL MINES
_,/   .N.J;7s
-   '       ~ ~~ ~~~ '           r                                                                             . ColojiRS
9   X   j     .     EF                                                                      7 CATAVI
-12-          \'I                                                                                                                              WlITH COMSUI                12-
\    ,r/                                                                                                                 ID UNIFICADA'\
,)A                                                                                                                    WO~~~
__- __.-' S   $    ;             -         SELECIED MAIN  ROADS
-   -l  o     = C_ DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
('    N       /      D                 ~        '                ' i                                       -.       INENTOA CONA XlOEIS  
..                                                     W'-                          C                     12
'      B     Ea cO. r  ,c   .S                                                                            C I         R_L C DRS
0   > s l          C> Q            X /\ _              >         S4f~+N7 '/                                                               :_          _             5
70 TRA..OAD ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     RRO.
ui)    ~    ~    'I N4 ]APZ   \w0                                           
CAICCO. .'_    ,-                            I T ,,,DAD
16  N                        ~ ~                   ~~~~~~~~~~ 7
-~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~  ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           N
~~ ~~~   \   COCHABAT,Y9A    .'q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ SOT,
CT VICE C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.RC
N                   /1 ~C H C Q  I                SL,CY       ICIA bIIYCr
P00001 ~~~~~~~I  *    LCA..CTh.I-d..
u    A  Ia   <                                         X                             ;        R P         ,  ,_,,C       _ INT
h. W  dOYD
N0                                                                          R 0E/ NAI TA I N  A                                 bACCT*2CCYR LI.
-SOL,OI



!






-) i3i. _                        I6    :          11 j- 
'lNI DJUVNT



