BOLIVIA:
SECRETARIA NACIONAL DE MEDIO AMBIENTE
MINISTERIO DE MINERIA Y METALURGIA
Swedish Environmental Systems
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
OF
THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL (MANUFACTURING) SECTORS
FINAL REPORT
June 1993



CONTENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLE OF ACRONYMS
EYECUTIVE SUMMARY
PART 1: INTRODUCTION
I     BACKGROUND                                                             1
1     PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                    2
A Terms of refemnce and obiectives                                    2
B Methodology                                                         2
PART 2: BASELINE DATA
I     GEOGRAPHY                                                              4
II    GEOLOGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES                                         4
HII    HYDROLOGY AND WATER RESOURCES                                        9
IV    AREAS OF ECOLOGICAL SENSITIVITY                                      10
V     DEMOGRAPEHCS AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDMIONS                            14
A The indigenous population                                          14
B Soclo-economic data                                                15
PART 3: POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
I     ORGANIZATION OF TlE STATE                                            16
A Branches of government                                             16
B Key ministies                                                      16
C Major legal instruments                                            17
II    ECONOMIC POLICY                                                       18
m     NATIONAL POLICIES, LAWS AND INSTIMONS FOR ENVIRONMENT                 19
A General aspects                                                    19
B The National Envaomeal Law of 1992                                 20
C The N-aional Secretariat for the Environment (SENMA)               21
D The Departmental Councils for the Envinment (CODEMAs) and Departmental
Seaetariats for the Envirnment (SEDEMAs)                           23
E The National Environmental Fund (FONAMA)                           23
F The Bolivian Environmental Action Plan (PAAB)                      24
G Laboratory and monitoring capablities                              24
IV    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT                                      25



v   USE OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES                                                25
A Planning and developmcnt in gcneral                                         25
B Urban development                                                           26
C Rural development                                                           27
D Water resource management                                                   27
E Potable water and sanitation                                                28
VI  EVRONMENTAL QUALITY                                                             30
A General aspects                                                             30
B Water quality                                                               30
C Solid waste management                                                      31
D Hazardous waste management                                                  31
E Pesticides                                                                  3 1
F Air pollution                                                               32
G Selectng regulatory instnunents for environmental management               32
H Human resources                                                            33
Vll   OCCITPATIONAL KFAI TH AND SAFETY                                              33
A Legislation of occupational health                                          33
B Institutional framework for occupational health                             34
VII   FOREIGN ASSISTANCE                                                            36
PART 4: ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING SECTOR
I NDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE                                                        37
A Historical perspective                                                     37
B Resrucuiring of the national Corporcidn Minema de Bolivia                   37
C Major categories of hard rock mining                                       38
II    POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK                                                    44
A Economiclegal reform and the mining sector                                 44
B Mining and enviromnment                                                     44
C Responsible government institutions                                        45
m   ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS                                                          45
A General aspects                                                            45
3 Restructuring of the mining sor and its environmental consequences         47
C Use of land and naural resources                                           48
D Land degradation                                                           49
E Environmental pollution                                                     49
F Special conmers related to alluvial gold mining                             59
IV     OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                61
A General aspects                                                             61
B Industrial mining                                                           63
C Small scale and coopmrativc mining                                          63
v      SOCIAL lMPACTS                                                                64
A General aspects                                                             64
B Effects of mining on Andean social structures                               65
C Effects of mining on social structures in the Amazon                        65



VI    REGIONAL IMPACTS                                                             66
A Genral apects                                                             66
B Potosi area                                                               67
C OnLrv alea                                                                71
D Quechisla area                                                            74
E Boivian Amazon Basin                                                      75
PART 5: ASSESSMENT OF THE INDUSTRLIAL (MANUFACTURING) SECTOR
I      INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE                                                        76
A Historical perspective                                                    76
B Major categories of industrial vzfivity                                   76
11    C POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTONAL FRAMEWORK                                   80
A Econonmc/legal reform and the industrial sector                           80
B industry 2nd eavironment                                                  81
C Responsible govemment institutions                                        81
m     ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS                                                       82
A General aspects                                                           82
B Use of land and nanual resources                                          84
C i and degradation                                                         89
D Fnvironmental pollution                                                   89
IV    OCCU1PATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFEIY                                             103
A Genex;d apects                                                           103
B Working accidents                                                        104
C Chemical hazards                                                         104
D   ui.Lie, lighting and ergonomics                                        105
E Possiblties for improvement                                              105
v     SOCIAL IMPACTS                                                              106
VI    REGIONAL IMPACTS                                                            107
A La Piz (Choqueyapu Basin)                                                107
B El Alto (Altiplano Basin)                                                108
C Onro (Lake Poopo Basin)                                                  109
D Cochabamnba                                                              110
E Santa Cruz                                                               111
PART 6: RECOMMNWDED PRIORiTES FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL
MITIGATION PLAN FOR THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
I     BROAD POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES - Clarifying and
implementing policies to promote sustainable development                 113
A Segthening governmental and nongovermmental institutions                 115
B Overall planning for sound use of land and natral resources              116
C Planning for new investments                                             118
D Key program design and program implementation issues                     121



11    MAJOR TARGETS FOR MMITGATION                                               125
A Cross-cufag areas                                                       125
B The mining sector                                                       126
C The industrial sector                                                   128
m     RECOMMENDED PRIORrTY ACTIVrITES                                            129
A Cross-cutting tlemes                                                    130
B Improved environmental management for major sourcs                      130
C Issues requiring fu     study                                           131
D Proposal for a regional pilot S:lvity - integraed environmental management
in the Onro region                                                     131
IV    ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES                                                   132
V     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING                                      133
VI    ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING OF RECOMMENDED ACIrVITIES                         133
PART 7: rPTLIC PAR1 7ATwoN
I     SEMINARS                                                                   134
II    CONSULTATIONS REGARDING THE FINAL REPORT                                   135
PART 8: APPENDICES (OVERVIEW)                                                    136
1     List of EA peparers
11    Bibliogaphy
m     Program of seminars/list of consulted organizations
IV    Technical appendices (overview; reports in two separate voluMCS)



TABLE OF ACRONYMS
CFD          The Center of Forestry Development
CODEMA       Departmentai Councils for the Environment
CM           The Council of Ministers
COMIBOL    Bolivian Minig Corporation
CONEPLAN   Ihe National Coucl of Economy and Plnning
CoRDECO    Regional Development Corporation for Cochibamba
DINABSA      National Directorate of Basic Sanitation, within the Minisay of Urban Affairs
ETAP         Toe Environmental Technical Assistance Project of the World Bank
IONAMA       National Fund for the Enviromment
GOB          The Government of Bolivia
HOHW         The C-eneral Directo-rat of Hygiene. Occupational Health and Welfare
IIMM         Mme Investigation Institute for Mining and Metallurgy
INSO         Ihe National Institute of Occupational Health
JGF          JapaDese Grant Facility of the World Bank
MACA         Ministry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture
MEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MECE         Ministry of Exportation and Economic Competitiveness
MEH          Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
MPH          Ministry of Public Health
M lM          Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy
MPC          Mnistry of Planning and Coordination
MTvCPA       Ministry of Transportaion. Communications and Private Aeonautics
MUA          Ministry of Urban Affairs
NDH          National Directorate of Hydrocarbons
NEL          National Environmental Law
NGO          Non-governmental organization
NIC          The National Institute of Colonization
NSAR         National Service of Agaian Reform
PAAB         Bolivian Enviromnental Action Plan
SAGUAPAC  Public Enterprise for Water Supply in Santa Cruz
SAMAPA       Public Enterprise for Water Supply in La Paz
SEARPI       Agency for Water Regulation in River Piaf
SEDEMA       Departmental Secretanat for the Environment
SEMAPA       Public Enterprise for Water Supply in Cochabamba
SENCAM       National Service for Miniag Cadastre
SENMA        National Secretariat for the Environment
TCU          Technical Coordination Unit of FONAMA



SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
SECTORS IN BOLIVIA
Swedish Envlronmental Systems
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I. BACKGROUND
This is a sectral Environmental Assessment (EA) of the rdning and industrial secuts in Bolivia. Its
purpose is to lay the foundations for more effective enviromental planning and management in these
secors. The EA has been canied out by Swedslih Eivironmental Systems with finarcing from tLhe
Swedish govermment, in cooperation with the World Bank. The Study Team's lead institutional coun-
tcrpart has been he National Secretariat for the Environment, although they have also worted closely
with the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy. Many other public and private organizations participated
in this work.
The report Is organized in eight pats:
1. Intuduction
2. Baseline data
3. Policy, legal and institational famework
4. Assessment of the mining sector
S. Assessment of the industrial (manufacturing) sector
6. Recommneed priarities for an Environmental Mitigation Plan
7. Public participation
8. Appendices
Ibis EA presents an overall diagnosis of environmental conditions and identifies strategic priorities.
The recommended pnorities for an Environmental Mitiutmion Plan include both brpad..wlicY le  and
insti   iaL..iaes and specific tar             al mitigation In the mining and industrdal
sectors. Of these priorities. the EA recommends a subset of activities to be given priority in future
activities of the government of Bolivia, the World Bank and oaher international organizations. These
activities fall into three categories:
1. Improved envirommental management for major sources of environmental prblems;
2. Issues requiring further study; and
3. A proposed pilot project on integrated environmental management in the Oruor region.
In all these activities, there should be emphasis on building institutional capacity, developing consen-
sual approaches with broad participation, and promoting more efficient use of nantal resources.
i



1L BASELINE DATA
A. Geography.
Bolivia is located in the cener of the South Ameaican concinent, and covers a surface area of
1,098,580 kM2. Briefly described. Bolivia's territory cra mpses three main physiographic regions: (1)
the Andean region, covering about 28% of the teritory in the central west and southwest pan of the
country; (2) the sub-Andean region; and (3) the casten lowlands, covering more thn 65% of the
country's teritory. Because of the great diversity in topography and physiography. a wide range of
climatic conditions are found in the country, ranging frm  the dry, oold weather and sparse vegetaton
of the Altiplano to the tropical rain forests of the eastern lowlands.
B. Geology aind mnnal resources.
The btdn±k of Bolivia can be subdivided into six major, north-south trending. structua units, from
west to east. The major mineral deposits occur in bedrock in the mountains of the Altiplano. These
deposits contain a wide vanety of metallic elements. These may include En, lead, zinc, silver, antimo-
ny, tungsten, copper, and bismuth, in different associations or in different parts of the same vein sys-
tem. The veins are generally narrow and steeply dipping. These characteristics make the deposits less
amenable to large scale cxploitation and so have helped to maintain a low degree of mechanization in
most mining operations. In the vast Amazon area, extensive exploitation for alluvial gold is carried out
in a number of plaes. Extrction methods vary fmm artisanal panning to undergrund exploration to
lrge scale dedging operations.
Potential areas for futue miting represent about 30% of Bollvia's surface. Most of the Andes, particu-
larly the areas of Precambrian bedrock in easter Bolivia. are characterized by a high density of mine-
ral occwrences with a great variety of metals and good possibilities for finding new deposits. Also,
very extensive potential mining areas for alluvial gold in the Amazon are still untouchedi
C. Hydrology and water resources.
The total amount of surface water annually available in Bolivia is estimated at about 317.600 million
n3. This hydrological potential is distributed among three major waterheds with very unequal avail-
ability of water per unit surface: (l) the Amazon basin covers 66% of the territory and contains 88%
of the total amount of water. channeled through several major rivers; (2) the Rfo de la Plata basin
covers 21% of the country's surface and represents 11.5% of the hydiological potential; and (3) the
closed basin or Altiplano occupies 13% of the surface of the country, but has only 0.5% of its surface
water. rhere is only limited data on groundwater resources in Bolivia because most areas rely on
surface water. However, the cities of Santa Cruz and Oruro, as well as parts of the city of Cochabam-
ba. rely on groundwater.
A particularly pressing problem in Bolivia is that many of the zones with intensive economic activities
coincide with areas where water resources are very scarce. TIis is true in the entire Altiplano basin, as
well as in the region of Cochabamba. In boLh cases, this situation creates conflicts among the various
water users.
ii



D. Areas of ecological sensitivity
43 areas have been declared natue reserves in Bolivia. The selection critena for designating these
reserves have been unreliable; the National Secretariat for the Environment is carying out a reevalua-
tion with assistance tom the Global Environment Facility; the study will probably result in revoking
the designation of some reserves and modifying the size of others. Part of this work involves ecologi-
cal mapping, with areas being ranked as having high, medium or low ecological sensitivity.
At the present time, the mrin and industrial sectos seem to pose relatively little threat to the pdi-
mary areas of high ecological sensitivity, although there is scarce basellne data available. Mhe most
sensitive areas are located primarily in the lowlands (particularly In parts of the Amazon basin and in
the s.utheastern border areas towards Brazil), whereas much of the mining and industrial activity is in
the Aliplano region. he most immediate concem is alluvial gold mining in the Amazon. Also, in-
dustnal activity in Santa Cruz and Cocdixbamba are of potential concem because these areas also drain
into the Amazon. Another threatened ecosystem is the closed Altiplano Basin (including Lake Titcaca),
which dnains most of the areas whefr hard rnck mining ocars.
E. Demographies and sodo-economlc condiUons
1. Socio-economic data
The 1992 national census gave a population figure of 6.3 million. About 45% of the population Uves
in the Andean Departments of La Paz, Oruro, and Potosi. The main growth area is the Department of
Santa Crz, which has expanded from about 15% of the population in 1976 to about 21% In 1992; this
;ncrease partly reflects the migration from the taditional mining areas to the Eastern Lowlands. The
perrentage of Bolivians living in urban areas grew frm about 42% in 1976 to about 58% in 1992.
Despite improvements during the last few years, Bolivia remains onc of the poorest counties in Latin
America. with a per capita income of US$ 700 in 1991. General development within the social sector
is very low. Ihus, the mortality rate is as high as 92 per thousand, nearly double the average rate for
Latin American countries. Less than half of the population has aocess to safe water (47%) and only
about one third has access to adequate sanitaton (35%).
2. The indigenous population
The Bolivian population has its origin in the fusion of two fundamental ethnic componenTs: the indi-
genous and the Spanish. Its distribuTion, evolution and mixing has been, and still is, influenced by
geogrphical, social, and economic factors.
The aboriginal inhabitants of the Bolivian territory have been grouped in three lnguistic groups: the
Andean group, the Tupf-guaranf group, and the Araguaco group. To the Andean group belong pnmari-
ly the Aymaras and the Quechuas, who inhabit the Altiplano, the Cordillera Oriental and the eastern
valleys, and at present, tbrough the migrations of the last ten years, also the easen part of the
country. The Urus and Chipayas, who live in the surroundings of Lake Poopo and are close to exdnc-
tion also belong to this group. Ihe Andean population, traditionally making their living from farming
and mining, have been profoundly affected by the decline in the economy. which has substantially
changed the socio-economic structure and obliged people to look for new altematives. One of these
iii



facors was the massive dismissal of workers at Uwh COMIBOL mines, which obliged many miners to
"relocate" themselves into cooperatives where the way of working is very primitive and the life con-
ditions vcry hard. Another alternative of these unemployed workers was to movc towards the noth-
east and integrte themselves under precarious conditions in the exploitations of the alluvial gold depo-
sits In ccrtain areas within the Bolivian Amazon basim
Another important factor, which direy affected the peasants, was the overvaluation of the coca
poducts in the international markeL Tbis reality caused thousands of fanilies, escaping from drought
and famine, to install themselves in the regions of Cochabamba and Santa Czuz. lhis massive migra-
tion, In a short time, of the most diverse ethnic and social groups has had a very negative impact on
the environmenL The introduction of wage-earning work and the monetrization of human relations in
the most crude forms, have decomposed the traditional peasant socicy. It has also changed the old
agricltural practices, which protected the ecosystem. by changing to single crop cultivation, with such
consequenccs as deforestation and the depletion of the soils.
Bolivian governmental docmments distinguish between "Bolivian Deasants". which denomination com-
prises the Aymara- and Quechua-speaking people, and the rmarginal ethnic groups" of the eastern part
of the country. These latter, also referred to as "oomadic and semi-nomadic indians", are the direct
descendants of peoples who inhabited the country in precolonial times. They have their own social
organization and a common language. They are confined to their own defined teritories. The total
population of these gups is estmated to 130.000 to 200,000 pesons, belornging to 38 ehnic groups,
of which 29 belong to the Bolivian Amazon basin.
EL POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTTUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
A. Organizadon of the governmenL
Bolivia is a republic with a democratic governmenL Ihe three branhes of govemment are the Execu-
tive Branch (beaded by the President), te Legisative Assembly, and the Judiciary. The national
government coordinates with the governments of Bolivia's nine departments, each of which contains a
number of local government jurisdictions.
The next Presidential election will be held in June 1993. The new Administraion will take office in
August 1993.
R_ Economic poUly.
The New Economic Policy, established in 1985, initiated a process of liberaizing Bolivia's highly
protectionist economy. Changes included abolshing the extensive net of subsidies which had distorted
the economy and emphasizing exports as the base for sustained economic gowth. This policy has
been developed furter in the National Development Stategy, which stresses the importance of the
private sector in econom-, labor, and management matters (and a corresponding hrinking of govern-
ment's role in these fields), plus increased decntraization and modernization of the State.
iv



C. Polides, laws and Institutuons for envIronmenL
1. Geneal aspects
In 1992, Bolivia adopted a new umbrella environmental law and began developiag the Bolivian Envi-
rommemal Action Plan tle law covers all aspects of environment, including environmental manage-
ment, and advocates sustainable development and the use of economic incntives. In many cases. the
law is unclear about insdtutional reponsibilites. Its requirements are very general and so implementa-
tion will requir more detailed regulations. The World Bank is helping to prepare additional environ-
mental laws and regulations through technical assistance provided under the World Bankes Japanese
Grant Facilty and the subsequent Environmental Technical AssisUnce ProjecL
Laws adopted In Bolivia before the new environmental law tend to have a sectoral viewpoint with
litte regard to envirnment. There are many overlapping ur inconsistent provisions in the laws and so
there are msulting confusions about legal requirements and institutional rsonsibilities. A number of
governmental and quasi-govenetal institutions have resoonsibilities concerning economic develop-
ment, natural resource management and environmental protection.
The national envimonmenul law created an environmental coordinating body that has the status of a
ministry, the National Sectariat for the Eaviroment (SENMA); it also crcated regional counterparts
to SENMA that will opeate in each of the nine departments, and called for all ministries to establish
environmental units. SENMA has broad responsibilities. much broader than its current resources can
aGCOmmodte
The Congress has been drafting new laws on water, forestry and biodiversity. It is doubtful whether
any of these will be finalzed before fte upcoming elections. Land use planning is another area where
t.he govemment expects to prepare new legislation in the near-term; the environmental law calls for an
Ordeoamiento Territorial.
2. Environaental quality
NatioL  regulations exist on basic sanitation and controlling industial discharges into bodies of wate,
but they have not been implemented IThe only active programs in these aa are potable water, sewer
and basic sanitation services provided in some urban areas puRsuant to municlardiaces. he
Miuisty of Urban Affairs is conducting a study in several cities to look at improving municipal waste
management facilities and possibly pnvatizing them.
SENMA is currently preparing regulations on environmental impact assessment and environmental
quality. pursuant to the new environmental law. It expects these to be ready for approval by mid-1993.
3.  Selecung regulatory nstuments for envirnmental management
Regulators in both industialized and developing counties have shown a strong preference for quani-
ty-based approaches (QBA) that require polluters to reduce the amount of pollution so that total conta-
mination is restricted to a targeted ambient limiL This preference is likely to continue for practical
v



reasons, despite the thcoretical superiority Of price-based approaches (PBA) th7 JIcly on market foc
to help allocate environmenta management responsibilities more efficiently.
Bolivia is at the eaiest stage of selecting regulatory instmments for enviromcal management. Mhe
initial work on environmental quality regulations is focusing on quantity-based appmaches. with draft
reuirements in areas such as waste management and air quality. The Government will also need to
explore possible price-based approaches - for example, whethe and how to establish a basic pollution
charge that would generate revenues to help fund new environmental management efforts and perhaps
encourage reduced pollution. A complicating factor in Bolivia is that introducing any change in the
national government's income from taxes and other financial mechanisms rquires an amendzLent to
cxisting fiscal legislation.
4. Laboratory capacity and monitoring capabilities
Analytial competence to determixae ch&emcal and physical environmental parameters is nmecssary bot
tc determine baseline conditions and to monitor and evaluate sources of environmental contamination.
Bolivia has many laboratories that are reasonably well-equipped. However, qualified staff are scarce,
quality assurance is low, and operation and maintenance of laboratory facilities is inadequate. This is
due to a lack of resources for search and a poor market for selling analytical services.
Environmental monitorlng activities are limited to some communal waste water treatment plants and
certain wdl-un industries. Systematic monitoring by authorities is virtually nonexistent and regional
surveys are only carried out sporadically in connection with intemational cooperation projects.
5. Human resoui:es
Environmental quality and management are relatively new issues in Bolivia, and consequently human
resource capabilties axe still limited. However. ther is a good core base of talent upon which to build
Some expertise Is available in vanous government departments and the private sector (usualy in the
larger, betr financed companies).
Within the nongovernment  community, a large number of organizations (NGOs) are active In
addressing the needs of the population In general. Even if the social issues dominate, an appreciable
number of groups are active within the environmental sector. Sometimes such NGOs serve as coordi-
nators for the cxecution of multidisciplinary studies, with financirg from abroad and including scien-
tists from Bolivian universities and state organizations. A good example of such a program is the
pioneer work carried out und  the coordination of LIDEMA regarding the environmental situation in
the gold exploitation areas of northeastermmost Bolivia.
D. Occupational health and safety
Bolivia has a fairly elaborate legal and institutional structe for protecting the health and safety of
workers. However, awareness of and compliance with these safeguards_vanes widely. Neither the
govemment of Bolivia nor foreign assistance organizations appear to give this area sufficient priority.
vi



IV. ASSESSMENT OF THE MNING SECTOR
A. Hlstory of mining
Minlng has been the totally dominant industrial activity in Bolivia since the Spanlsh arrived In tie
16th cenury. Many hundred of deposits have been worked, containing a wide variety of metalic
elements. Some of the fim deposits to be discovered are still beig exploite.L As noted above, there is
aonsiderable potential for future mining both in the Ande (hard rock mining) and in the Amazon
basin (alluvial gold mining).
Mieral production in Bolivia declined from a peak of US$ 756 million in gross metal value in 1980
to a low of US$ 139 million in 1986. Sincc then a recovery has occurred to USS 367 milllon in 1991.
In spite of all problems, including the present low metal quotations on the world market, the export of
the mining sector officialy amounted to more than 40% of the nation's total export value in 1991.
B. Major categories of hard rock minuing acdvity
In 1952. the government nationalized all major private mines u    tM new Conporaci6n Minra de
Bolivia ( COMIBOL). Thus, the private sector was reduced to a number of smaller operations and
small scale mining. Iibs private sector has come to be subdivided into Medium Mining and Small
Mining. These designations are still in use even though the Medium Mining nowadays has surpassed
COMIBOL in size of individual operations as well as total output Mbe main categories of mining
activity include:
1.  Sae mining (COMIBOL)
Soon after COMIBOL was formed in 1952. it became a major power in the Republic with widespead
social commitments and political fumctions. However, COMIBOL went into tecnicmal banknuptcy in
1985 as a consequence of mis-management, worened by falling meta prices. All mines were closed,
temporarily or permanently, and a far-reaching program for restructuing and private paflcopalon is
now being implemented with the support of the World Bankl This process has recenty gained momen-
tum; over the next two years, al innes that ae not going to be closed pemanently will be offered
successively for private participation through joint ventures or leases. COMIBOL preently employs
about 6,000 people.
2. Medium Mining (Minerfa NMediana)
Those private mining companies which meet certain citeria regarding production, financing and
management, are by law affilited with the Association of Medium Mines (Asociaci6n Nacional de
Mineos Medianos). With the weakening of COMEBOL, this group now represents the man force
within Bolivian industial mining, although with a smaller number of employees than COMIBOL.
With the present low metal prices, only a very few of these companies are making a profit. The envi-
ronmental awareness within this group of companies varies greatly. Companies with heavy foreig
involvement are most likely to want to upgrade their environmental management
vii



3. Small Mining (Minerfa Chica)
The Minerla Chica is a beterogenous group of small enteprises ragng from industrial opeatons
eating up to 200 tons of ore per day (and teby being bigger than the smallest enterpises within
the Minerfa Mediana) to vcry small family-bascd activities. A gncat majority of them are very small
and do not differ substantially from the cooperatives (discussed below) as regards organization or work
methods. The total number of employed persons within this sector amounts to about 7.000, with an
additional 3.000 quarrying for industnial minerals. This is less than one quarter of what it was ten
yean ago.
4. Cooperatives
As an old tradition, but much extended after 1985. gpups of miners work small deposits or leftovers
in mirnes wich have been closed down. The total numher of such workers is many times larger th2n
that of miners employed by the industy. These informal miners are most often members of a "co-
opertive," a loose association of miners (and their families) which mainly serves the purpose of
acquiring the mining permit and selling the producL In fact, the tenn cooperative" is mainly a euphe-
mism for the reckless variety of enterprise typical of a gold rush milieu
Usually, the "cooperativa mining takes place with complete disregard for occupational health and
safety as well as the ambient environment Ibe work conditions are primitive and dangerous, and the
living conditions very pecarious. Making improvements is not primarly a question of providing more
appropriate technologies as these are already a'ailable but seldom economically viable. Despite the
considerable hazards, a significant number of workes in this sector are content with teir siuion; the
total family income (including contributions fom cbildren who are waorig radher than going to
school) may be betr than hat frm  a "normal" job. Few of lte people in this sitiation undestand-
or cam afford the 'luxury" of thinking about - the grave risks to their health and future well-being.
h'Iis sector will only disappear when the accessible mineralizations are exhausted or through the de-
velopment of alternative occupations. Until then. measures will have to be sought which can alleviate
tie worst aspect of the situation vithout subsidizing or otrwise prolonging the  unornnate cir-
cumstances.
C. Alluvial gold mining
Alluvial gold mining is the exploitation of gold that occurs as dispersed grAns in the loose overburden
Or in poorly consolidated sediments. The gold originates from the bedrock, from which it has been
libeated through glacial or weathering processes
Gold has been exploited in Bolivia since pre-Columbian times. Presently, intensive exploitation of gold
from alluvial deposits occurs in two main areas withn the Amazon basin: along the Tipuani and
adjoining rivers draining the Easter Cordillera; and along the Madera and Madre de Dios rivers close
to the frontier with Brazil In the   a s    part of Bolivia.
viii



lhese areas largely lack even basic infastucure and arc ou:sidc any public control to a great extenL
Health service is rudimentary and serious accidents are very common. By and large, environmental
quality and workers' ealth and safety are unknown concepts. A particular concern is the use of mer-
ciry for tie amalgaastion of concetrates; tlis mercury Is heated off into the atmosphere for the
recuperation of gold and in this way enters soils and waters. Another serious consequence is heavy
degradation of the landscape by dredging, diversion of rivers. cutting tes, etc.
D. National policies, laws and Institutions regarding minnig
The recently amended mining code has almost no environmental provisions, and those very few are
not being implemented. Most mining activities are under the supervision of the Ministry of Mincs and
Metallurgy (MMM). However, the actuai allocation of exploration or exploitation rights (and permits)
is carried out by the Superintcndency of Mines, which is part of the separate Court of Mining. MMM
plans to establish an Environment Unit and begin drafting environmental regulations, with foreign
assitance.
E. Mining and envlronment
1.   ener aspects
Boivian mining has caused, and continues to cause, a major negative impact on the naural as well as
the human environment. However, data on speofic impacts tend to be scatered and not well orga-
nzled. The foilowing major impacts occur in BoUvia:
1. The consumption of scarmc or depletable natural resources: usc of land; removalt of res and
minerals; and use of water (suface water. grand watr or fossid water).
2 Transformation of the landscape: open pit exploitation; dredging activities; tailing dams; waste
rock disposal; and waste piles from heap leaching.
3. Contamination of surfac wates, gmundwatm and soils fiom: minr water; pcess water,
tafilings in process water suspension; and leachares from old waste dumps or other sources.
4. Accumulation of solid waste: mine waste rck tailings from concentration operations.
5. Dust and gas emissions: parficulate matter, dust containing heavy metals tat can contaminate
water and soils; gases from smelters which may contaminate the environment and affect human
bealtbL
6. Occupational health and safety hazards (ofken extreme, especially in small scale and informal
mining).
The mimng industry conmes approximately 315 minlion m3 of water each year. This amounts to
about 2% of the tot water resources available in the Altiplano, where the great majority of the mines
are situated. Even though this may seem a modest percentage, much competition regarding scarce
ix



water resources occurs in many mining areas. The recirculation of water in the processing plaints
averages only 10-20%.
Effluents fom mining operations cause widespread contamination of namral soils and waters. Tlhe
Study Team analyzed mine waters, brought to the surface through pumping or natural flow, at ten
diffenrnt mines. In all cases, these samples exhibited high contents of one or several heavy metals
(e.g.. copper, cadmium, arsenic, lead and zinc), values which were usually 10-100 tirres higher than
the typical standards used for mining effluents in industrialized countries. Ihe same is true for process
waters from beneficiation plants sampled and analyzed at about 20 different sites. Such was often
contain extremely high contents of heavy metals, as well as process chemicals such as xanthates and
cyanide. lhe frequent lack of proper tailings dams, or deficiencies in their management, results in 30-
50% of all waste waters with heir contaminations bWing discharged to nature. Another major problems
is "acid rock drainage," which is caused by oxidation of sulfides in tailings and waste rock, and the
subsequent formation of acid, metal-rich solutions through leaching by rain waler. All these souroes of
pollution pose major potential thueats to flora and fauna They also affect man more direcly by redu-
cing the quality of wter for drinking, agricultu-e and recreation. and causing corrosion of steel and
c1uncrete structures, such as water pipes.
The present annual production of solid waste from indus   mining is approximately 5 million tons.
of which about one half is discharged to tailings dams of satisfactory construction and management
The remaining industial mining operations will have to be equipped with such facilities at an estima-
ted cost of USS 6.5 million. The reclamation of old tailings, estimated to total about 104 million tons.
implies a cost of USS 72.5 million. These estimates do not include solid waste cuaety being
managed by the aine owners (certain pnvate miiing companies), or wast originating from small scale
or arisanal operations.
The spread of mercury to nate is a major concern associated w ith alluvial gold operations in certain
parts of the Amazon basin. It is difficult to quantify mercury  a ion  because of the uncon-
troled exploitation and uncertainties about the extent of activities and rate of gold production. How-
ever, it seems ikely that annually at least 25-50 tons of merctry are discharged to nature, and perhaps
more. Fish from the gold mining areas contain anomalous values of mercury and there are preliminary
indications of poisoning within the local population. Anodter serious environmental impact of alluvial
mining is land degradation, particularly from dredging operations.
2.  Recent trends
The trends in Bolivian mining during recent years, as seen from an environmental point of view, can
be summarized as follows:
1. The change from tin mining to the exploitation of lead/zinc/silver has meant increased use of
toxic process reagents such as xanthates and cyanide.
2. The economic recession has caused a decrease in the ability and determination of management
to control effluents and waste disposal.
x



3. Ihe surge of innumerable new small scale and artisanal operations has given nse to serious
ooblems, immnly of a social character but also affecting the fenvironmeL These activitics are
essentially outside any public or other control, with little or no concem for health and safety or
the environmenL More study is nceded to determine to what extent better financing or techical
assistance can improve conditions in this sector. and to what extent the sector is not viable eco-
nomicafly and so should be assisted primarily thnrugh social services until the sector begins
shrinking as a rslt of economic improvements.
4. Closed opeations are usually left without any type of clean-up or and reclamation. often
resulting in acid drainage and other problems. Mines being closed often means less pollution from
mine water and tailings, but it usually also ends the maintenance of any existing tailings ponds.
Another serious consequeoce is that closed mines often aact disoderly operations by 'coopera-
tivistas".
S. The proximity of some mining areas to urban as (in some cases cities that have grown up
around mining) presents a variety of serious public hazards.
6. A positive development is the arrival In Bolivia of some foreign mining companies with a
high degree of knowledge and standards in tecbnical and environmental questions. However, there
are also less responsible foreign iovests entering the scene.
3. Future impacts
A common argument In discussions about the environmental impact of mining in Bolivia is that most
mining occurs in mountainous areas where there is very little alternative use of resources. Ihis may be
true in some cases (if the question of preservation of the natual landscape as such is ignored), but in
most places there are other competing interes. These vary widely; some examples include: small
scale farming; severe conflicts between mining and cavil life (especialy in old nining cities like Potosi
and Oruro, each with about 80,000 inhabitants); threats to tbe fish in Lake Poopo; and contamination
of drinking watr in La Paz from abandoned tailings. Anater major concer, of course, is the well-
being of niners and their families.
It is difficult to forecast in any detail the extension. character and location of future mining ventures
and their implied environmental impacts prior to carrying out exploraticn activities. However, the
following general directions may be given:
1. For the foreseeable future, the focus of conventional mining in Bolivia will continue to be in
the Altiplano and to a large extent in areas of previous mining activities. Ihe needed environmen-
tal improvements in connetion with such operations are reasonably well known and it can be
assumed that, with the introduction of new policies and teduniques, the problems can be managed
in a satisfactory way. It may even happen that clean-up operations in certain old mining areas can
be combined with continued or reopened actvities. It is quite probable that large bulk mining in
open pits will eplace underground. selective mining in some areas.
xi



2. New possible areas for mining in the eastern part of the country (the Preambrian shield)
could present new problems and possible conflicts with farming and ote interests. In general,
these areas do not coincide with areas of ecological sensitivity and nature reserves. However, as
cxplained above, the real extent of possible conflicts cannot be evaluated until at least basic infor-
mation about a new deposit exists. Exploilation of mineral deposits In nature reserves should be
legally prohibited; in this contex, it will be important to define clearly the boundaries of nature
reserves.
3. Alluvial gold mining presents special pmblems. as noted above. Tbe areas of current activity
will probably remain the main exploitation ameas for the near future. However, one cannot totally
exclude the possibility that new deposits will be found in other parts of the Amazon basin, with a
corrsponding spread of contamination and destucfion to new areas. An extensive lnventory of all
present alluvial operations, with projections for future development and its environmental conse-
quences, is an urgent task.
F. Occupational health and safety
The mining sector is estimated to employ 60.000 to 80.000 people, about 15% of them in industrial
operations and 85% in semi-mechanized or artisanal activities. Working conditions within te indus-
tial sector range from good to poor, with the larger private compamies performing best. Conditions in
state mines are deterioraing due to deficient management and iadequate resources. Investigations ten
years ago showed, for example, that the average rate of silicosis among workes in COMIBOL mines
was an alarming 11%; ere is every reason to believe that this serious situation persis. Activities
within the labor-intensive small scale and artisanal sto  are characteized by hazardous health and
safety conditions and a general lack of formal employment rights or social insuance. The potential
poisoning threat posed by the use of mercury in aluvial gold minig is a particular concer.
G. Soctal Impact
1. Genera aspects
The exportation of raw materals is Bolivia's nxost important source of foreign exchange. This econo-
mic structure makes the country very vunerable io fluctuations in the pnces of raw materials on the
international markeL Thus, the decrease in the prce of tin during the last decade has caused a drastic
reduction in mine production and given rise to a social upheaval caused by mine closures and the
consequent unemployment of thousands of workers, plus a general economic recession
From the nationalization of the mines in 1952 up to 1985. when Bolivia!s new economic policy was
intrduced, COMIBOL played a fundamental role in the social as well as tl'e economic aspects of
Bolivian mining. For example, COMIBOL provided social infrastructures such as schools and hos-
pitals, and it disguised unemployment with administrative posts. This concentration of power gave rise
to nepotism and generated an excessively large pubUc sector - a situation tht has caused major social
and economic distortions, fonring a myth of prospeity and stability around the nationalized mining
companies.
The massive movement of workers out of the mining sector and into the infomal sector is a promi-
xii



neat development of the last decade. Before 1985, COMIBOL employed morc than 30,000 worke,
which multiplied with their dependents, constituted about 150,00D people. A few years afterwards.
COMIBOL had only 7,500 employees. Many unemployed miners went to the large cities, while others
moved to the informal mining sector or the alluvial gold fields of the Amazon basin
Bolivia is today a county of free market economy. MTis shift in economic policy and the coming
privatization of COMIBOL are generating social problems that many miners are not equipped to
handle, either individually or collectvely. Instead of being part of a paternaistic system where
COMIBOL maintained a (sometimes illusory) system of social welfare, they now find themselves
salaried - or often, unemployed - workers in the private sector. Trade unions have been qick to
resort to public or privae violence to generate political presue- hese tensions are crating a critical
situation to which there Is no clear solution. However, building up the private sector In mining could
eventnay offer one positive route out of the cycle of unemployment and underrmployment, if no a
definite solution.
The informal mining sector, which includes coopeatives and artisanal mining, has grown substantially
since 1985 and will increase even more as COMIBOL begins leasing some of its holdings to cooper-
tives as part of the privatization process. This situation constitutes a social emergency of such magni-
tude and gravity that it has to be regarded as the most critical social problem in Bolivian mining
today.
2. Effects of mining on Andean social structs
The indigenous inhabitants of the Altiplano have significantly modified their culture and ways of
living in order to adapt to changing cirumstances as Bolivian mining has evolved during the last five
centuries Today, the population of the Altiplano  xms part of the general economy of the country, but
they coatinue to experience impotant dcanges as a result of the shifting structure of mning.
There has traditionally been an intricate net of intrelationships betwecn Andan envirounental condi-
tions and Andean culture. One of the main effects of mining on the surrounding culturl structues in
nearby communities and villages is that it has changed the typical values of individual ownersbip,
expenence and commitments to the land. Tibs process began as farmers shifted their main occupation
to mining, and accelerated as these miners were later obliged to sdl or abandon their land, either
temporarily or permaneutly, in wesponsc to anging employment oppormuities in the mines, Miis
process has often caused the break-up of the core family. As individua famiies must sell or abandon
their land, the woman's role may change from farming as a "compaiSeae to pusuiing activities in the
informal urban sector. In some cases, this means commuting into town each day to work as a steet
merchant; at other times, she may move to the city with part of the family.
3. Effects of rmning on socal structues in the Amazon
Most of the people involved in alluvial gold mining in the Amazon have migrated from other parts of
the country. Many of them ae indigenous peoples from the Andes. There is almost no information
about the impacts of alluvial gold mining on social sures in the Amazon, aside from general
impacts on Andean social strucures. Sedentury communities of people who are indigenous to the
Amazon are relatively small and few in number, and the Study Team found no information about
impacts on them.
xiii



V. ASSESSMENT OF TIE INDUSTRIAL (MANUFACTURING) SECTOR
A. HiUstoria perspecdve
be manufacturing industry in Bolivia experienced a prolonged recession duing the 1980s. In 1991,
the total production volume was still only 76% of that in the peak year of 1978. However, a clear
increase in production has occurred sice the extreme low (59% of the 1978 level) in 1985. The posi-
tive development of the manufacturing industry ever since 1986 is demonst-ated by annual growth
figures higher than the GNP growth rate almost evcry year. For exmple, in 1991, the industry gmwth
was 6.6% as compared to a GNP gmwth of 4.1%. That same year, the contribution to the GNP by the
manufacturirg Industry was 13.72%; this is sill rlatively low as a percentage of GNP. when com-
pared w-ith the mean with the mean value for Lain America, about 25%. Mme most expansive branch
of the industry has been the food industry, rising from a share of 39% in the period 1972-79 to a share
of 56% in 1986-90; the textile industry declined during that same period.
I= mole of the mnnufacuring industry in gena ng eyrt income to the country is fairly modest
However, at the same time as the total expotsL have increased from 638 million US$ in 1986 to 927
milion USS in 1990, the sharc of the manufactring industry has increased from 17 to 32%. Sugar,
soya flour, texiles and leatr products were among the most successful export products during the
last few years.
The Bolivian m     ng industry is mainly artisanal. In 1987, private industry comprised somc
12,700 enteiprises with a total of 49,000 employees, which means that the average work-fore was
less tha 4 persons per nufacting uniL There are only some 1.300-1.500 enterprises having more
than 5 employees, and thus beng large enough to be considered as tue "industries". Among the big-
ger industies, the dominant ones are oil refineies, cement plants, otler demical industries, food and
texile industries. As much as 83% of the indusui added value and 82% of the industial employment
are generated in the department of La Paz, Santa CrUz and Cochabmba.
B. Major categories of Industrial activtty
The manuacturing industry, as defined for the prpose of this repot includes all industria activities
in Boliva except (a) mining and concenration of metal ores, (b) exploitation of alluvial gold deposits
with the subsequent production of gold bulion, and (c) smelting of base metals in primary smelters.
Consequently, the mufactu    industry" covers a very wide range of activities and environmental
impacts. Major industrial caegories inlude:
1. Metallurgical industris
Tbe biggest metallurgical industry in operaton Is the Vinto smelter near Onuro, having an instlled
capacity of about 30.000 tons of tin and 6.000 tons of animony. (ibis and othr primary smeltes are
discussed further In the secton of the repaot on mining, because the Bolivian government treats pri-
mary smelters as part of the mining sector.) The previous very deficient environmental conditions there
are now being improved through German support and an investnent of US$ 53 million over the time
period 1992-95. In addition to the primary smelters, there are also several smaller metallurgical plants
xiv



for converting scrap metal to products such as valves and fittings in bronze, brass. aluminum and cast
iron. TIis industry mainly produces for the local market, as do the iroa casting plants that manufacture
equipment for tie mining industry. Another activity in this sector is the recycling of spent lead bat-
teries and tin scrap to produce lead tubes. rmconstituted lead batteries and welding metal. Some of
these small-scale industries play an important role in the recovery and recycling of valuable materials.
thereby contibutg to the replacement of imported products by domestic production.
Z Metal and metal finishing industries.
Ihis branch is rather small as far as the total output is concered, although a great number of very
smanll enterprises are Involved in the sector, particularly in El Alto.
3. Industial minerals.
ibis sector includes the cement, asbestos cement and glass industnes. These branches usually extract
the raw materials from mines or quarries of their own, although one manufact   of asbestos cement
products uses imported raw materials. The cement and the glass industries have presently entered into
a very ecpansive phase to meet the growing demand. The industry based on domestic asbestos is very
small scale and does not seem to have any potential for expansion.
4. Petroleum industry.
MTe petroleum industry in Bolivia is completely dominated by the state company Yacimientos Petrolf-
feros Fisles Bolivianos (YPFB). which was created in 1936 and given the mission to explom
exploit. refine and distribute the hydrocafon resources of Bolivia. The current producion of crude oil
and natural gas, expressed in oil equivalents, was 130.000 barrels/day in 1991. Ibis total production
achieved by YPFB and its subconors can be divided into 30,000 baresday of oil and 530 million
cubic feet/day of gas.
Of the natral gas produced, about 40% is exported (almost exclusively to Arge:rtna), 35% is reinjec-
ted into the oil-bearng formations and a litte more than 10% is sold on the domestic market and/or
consumed internally by YPFB. The oil is refined in three refineries located in Cochabamba and Santa
Cruz (total capacity 45.000 barls/day). The main operat ns in the refineries axe distillation and
ftionation of the crude oil, but there are also activities to obtain various other products. Twelve oil
pipe-lines and 8 gas pipe-lines ransport hydrocarbons to the refineries and/or to the industrial con-
sumers and points of exporL An oil pipeline connecLs the central oil fields with the port of Arica in
Chile, but cunrently no cnude oil is exported, since production is in balance with domestic consump-
tion- Some diesel is imported. A new gas pipe-line to Puero Suarez, for export to Brazil, wil be built
in the near future.
Prosecting for new oil reserves has been limited in the past, but several it national oil companies
have become active, following a recent change in legislation. YPFB continues to operate the refiing
and distribution systems.
xv



S.  Leather tannig and shoe industry.
This is traditionally an important scctor in Bolivia with many medium-sized and small units. They are
mainly located in Cochmbmba, though some are in La Paz and Santa Cruz Tihe tanning industry was
increasingly successful on the export market during the 1980s with an export figure of more hn  USS
17 million in 1989.
6. Textile Industry.
Ihe textile industry was the second largest manuftring sector (after the food industry) in Bolivia in
the 1970s, but has successively lost its importance; it represented less than 8% of the total manufac-
turing value in 1990. The traditional wool and cotton industry has declined at the expense of synthetic
fibers, a change which has, however, resulted in a strong recovery of export sales, amounting to a 25%
share of the total of exported manufactured goods in 1990. The highest concentiation of textile plants
is in La Paz, but the industry is also well established in Santa Cniz and Cochabamba. with a few units
in Oniro.
7. Paper industry.
Paper and carton manufaturing is a very small sector in Bolivia, with only one or a few smal mills
located in each of the depatments of La Paz. Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. All these units use re-
cycled paper, waste fibers and/or imported pAp as raw materials The associed paper converting,
graphics and prntindg industry consists of many medium-sized or small units, mainly concenrae in
La Paz_
8. Food industry.
Mhe dominating position of this sector within the m ng instry confinues to increase, both
v.ith regard to its total value and to the number of enterprises and workers. However, the Bolivian
food industry is predominantly producing for the local maret its export share sti being as low as
about 10% in 1990, though derivatives of soya seem to have been very expansive on the export mar-
kets during the last few years.
The bigger units within the food manufacturing sector include: edible oil plants; sugar mills; distil-
leries; breweries; and a yeast and food factory. Several  ium-sized or big units occur in the sub-
sectors of slaughterhouses, milk product factories, sofi-drink bottling plants and cereal processing
plants. The big factoies procsing soya, sunflower, cotton grains and sugar cane are mainly located
in the department of Santa Cruz, while a big edible oil refinry operates in Cochabamba. All major
cities have at least one brewery, one or several botting plants for soft drinks and one to several
slaughter-houses and meat-packing and/or other canning plants.
Many of the private modern food-processing factories have adopted the best available international
technology. E-owever, several older units still use obsolete and very wastefil technologies. This is
particlarly tue for the municipal-owned slaughterhouses and stat-owned sugar mills.
xvi



9. Miscellaneous.
The industial sectors discussed above arc all characized by operations that cause some degree of
envionmental Impact or considerable hazards with regard to occupational health and safety. In ad-
dition, the manufaclhrng Industry comprises a variety of other acivities whose operations have rela-
tively minor environmeal impacts, although somc of them are quite important with regard to th
number of enteprises and fte employment offed. These include clothing factories. saw-mills and
wood-processing (e.g.. furniture) fuctories. the ceramic industry, and the manufacture of machinery,
celctrical appliances, insruments, etc. The chemical industry is fairly restricted in Bolivia as far as the
total number of enterpnses or the total production value are concerned, but it covers a great variety of
acivities. The sector also includes recycling of waste lubricant oils and manufacturing of various
nished plastic and rubber products. The chemical industries are mainly concentrated in La Paz - El
Alto. with some in Cochabamba and Santa Cz.
C. National env!ronmentsl policies, laws and insittutions regarding industry
As noted above. the only effecdve regulation of industrial pollution occurs pursuant to a few munici-
pal ordinances regarding water quality. There is no special regulation of hazardous waste or industrial
air emissions. although these subjects are mentioned in the National Environmental Law.
Ihe Ministry of Exportation and Economic CompetitiLveness (ECE) (formerly the Miistry of In-
dustries) has authority to regulate industrial polution, although it has not exercised this authority
except in very limited circumstaces. MECE is prepaing a Presidential decree to create the Bolivian
Insdtute of Norms and Quality. is would be a private Institution whose responsibiltIes would in-
dude drafting industry standards, including environmental management requirements. MECE would
then formally promulgate these requirements, in cooperation with SENMA and other apprpriate
institutions.
The National Chamber of Industry has recently created a Committee of Environetal Affas which is
coordinating with SENMA on preparing the new regulations for EIA and environmentl quality.
D.. Industry and environment
1 General aspecEs
Unlie the mining industry, the manufacturing industry is not by definition consuming non-renewable
natiral resources. The mauacing sector cxhibits a wbole range of practces when it comes to Xt
responsible and sustainable handling of raw mateials, fm recovery and recycling to destructive uses.
However, almost all categaoies contibute to the depletion of fossil energy sources and to contarna-
tion of water, air and soil during the transformation of raw materials into finished products.
The environmental impacts of the manufactuing industry in Bolivia are relatively small, when com-
pared with those of the mining sector. Since the greater part of the Bolivian industry transforms agro-
based, organic materials into products, a great part of the major types of contaminants are similar to
the domestic wastes from cuties (organic substances, nutrients). Ilerefore, it is difficult to separate the
xvii



environmental impacts caused by industrial wastes fmm those caused by muniCipal sewage, especially
because most industries are located in densely populated areas.
Nevertheless. it has been possible to identify the foUowing environmental concerns related to the
Bolivian manufacuring industry:
1. The consumption of non-renewable energy and non-sustainable use of other natral resources:
fossil fuels; raw materials; siting of industry in areas with scarce water resources.
2. Land degrdation: inadequately planned tansport systems; siting of industry in densely popu-
l1ed areas; and loss of recational amas, green belts. etc.
3. Contamination of surface waters and gwundwaters from wastewater effluents containing: high
organic loadings (biological oxygen deficiency); slowly degradable organic substanzes; nutrients;
and toxic substances.
4. Poor waste management practices: solid waste; hazardous wastes; inadequate recycling and
reuse.
5. Air pollution: dust; noxious gases (SO2, NO., CO2. CFC,); external noise.
6. Occupational health and safety hazards.
The most fundamental requirement in order to achieve a rational utilization of natral resorces and to
minimie the environmental impact of an indusial pla is to ensure an appropriate location. Rational
planning of industry siting with a consequent segregation of industrial and urban areas is a relatively
recent phenomenon in Bolivia. By far the best example of a well-functioning industial estate comes
from Santa Cnruz wbere about 750 hectares northeast of the urbanized area of the city wve reserved
for industrial development At the end of 1989, about 250 eares were developed and almost 150
industres installed The municipality has provided the necessary ifstcre  (roads, water and ener-
gy supply, sewer system and storm wat collectors) and is operating an effluent treatment plat
El Alto. Cochabamnba and Onwro have also taken Inltiatives to set up indusial ess, but with much
less success. For example, in El Alto, an indusri reserve was designated without any guarantee of
land rights and without prvision of basic services such as electricity, water supply or sewer system.
Also, with few exceptions, there is no special segregation and Qtatment of industial or household
wastewaters, nor are there adequate systems for solid waste management and disposal.
A considerable part of Bolivian industry is located in regions where water is a very scarce commodity.
Such is the situation in La Paz - El Alto and in Cochabamba, where the water scarcity was aggravated
during the extended drought at the end of the 1980s and the first two years of the 1990s. In these
areas there is a clear conflict between industry, agriculture and domestic consumcrs, including recrea-
tion, with respect to the use of limited water resources. Some industries with bigh water consumption
in La Paz (e.g.. textles. leather tanning, yeast and beer production) do not seem to have taken any
decisive measures to reduce their water consumption. The water being supplied by La Paz's public
enterpnse "SAMAPA" was reported to cost 0.9 Bs/em3. a pnce which does not seem to present a suf-
ficiently stong incentive to save water.
xviii



nibre is an urgent need to lmprove water resource management in Bolivia. This is clear from the
extremely high pollution load in the nvers draining areas with high density of population and industry.
The tree biggest and most industialized cities, La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba, -c drained by
the nvers Choqueyapu, Pilaf and Rocia, respectively. In all these rivers, BOD5 values above 100 mg/L
(and occasionally exaceding 200 mg/L) are regularly recorded, at least during the dry season. These
BOD levels indicate a very high loading with organic waste. Such high pollution loads in rivers within
populated areas are certainly not consistent with any reasonable environmental goals. A few examples
may illustrate the situation
Quanttative discharges of organic waste (measured as BOD 5) to rivers rom some industries in Boli-
via. All discharges given as kg/day.
TYPE OF INDUSTRY                               BOD5    COMMENS
Brewery (small)                                  120      Individual effl, treatment
Brewery (big)                                  1 500      No treatment
Yeast factory                                  1 000      No treatment
Milk product factory                             260      No treatment
Vegetable oil factoy                             740      No treatment
Distillery                                       760      150 d/year, Ind treatment
Sugar min 1                             6 000-45 000      200 d/year, No treatment
Sugar mill 2                                  16 000      200 dfyear, No treatment
Tannery                                          500      No treatment
Urban sewage in Santa Cmiz, 190.000 inhabitants (for comparison)
- before teatment                              4,800
- after treatment                                600
he examples given probably represent some of the worst cases in the country. The inxustial branches
shown in the table togetr with slaughter houses, petroleum reSneries, chemical plans produdng
soap and detegents and textile plants are the most polluting industies in Bolivia as fair as organic
water pollution is concened The waste water effluents from some of these industries also contain
various other contaminants, such as: chromium, sufides biocides and dyes In tanney effluents; sol-
vents and dyes in textile effluents; persistent hydrocabons and solvents in oil refinig effluents; etc.
2. Recent trends
Unlike the mining sector, the manufacuring industry in Bolivia does not yet seem to have caused any
major large-scale or regional negative impact on the naturl environment. However, there are already
several examples of local or medium-scale detrimental impaCts on ecosystems, soils and the human
environment, including lage fish-kills, impairment of agricaltural activities and severe nuisance to
man. caused by emissions of toxic substances, dust, bad odors or noise. Tbere are to date relatively
few in-depth investigations made on the envionmenal impacs fm B3olivian industry. The already
demonstrated adverse effect however, clearly justify concem about the sector as a whole. However,
this concern should not hide the fact that at least some sub-sectors of the Bolivian industry obviously
xix



have beneficial impacts on thc environmcnt. insofar as they activcly contribute to a more rational
reutilization of rcsiducs and recycling of wastes.
Geniul awareness and knowledge about environmental issues was fairly well developed among the
Bolivian industry managers working at many of the (relatively large) companies visited by the Study
Team. Although some commendable initiatives towards environmental prote'ion measures were noted
in several cases, the missing Unk in many other cases turned out to be a lack of clcar incentives or
well-formulated rules to stimulate further steps towards an improved environmenL
E. Occupational health and safety
In the bigger companies and in the modem plants, which usually have adopted a sophisticated proces
technology with a high dcgree of automatic procss control, the working environment has a 'built-in'
high stand3rd. On the other hand, the smaller enteprises. and in particular Ihe older plants, exhibit
various deficiencies in the working environment.
As is the case in the mining sector, the working environment wilhn Bnlivia's Industrial sector shows
great variations from safisfactory to unacceptable. A significant number of the bigger and thriving
companies in Bolivia exhibit a satisfactory awareness of problems related to occupational health and
safety; they have adopted moden technology. safe equipment, and training practices to prevent ac-
cidents and educate their workers about potential nisks. Meanwhile, in many other companies, esocrcial-
ly the smaller entepises and older plants, ignorane and negligence is a major reason for occupational
illness and accidents. Major occupational hazards include: inappropriat handling of chemicals; indoor
air pollution (and the lack of respiratory protection); bad lighting conditions; nolse; and working
double shifts (to earn more money).
Only a few companies within the industial sector seem to keep records on occupational accidems.
However, the petrleum industry (refineries) and a few other companies stand out as good examples
regarding the reporting of accidents and the keeping of records and statistics. There is a clear need for
improvements in occupational bealth and safety, including better education and training of the in-
dustrial workforce regarning this issue.
F. Social impacts
The industrialization process in Bolivia has developed gradtally. albeit slowly, since the 1950s, when
massive migrations to the major cities began. Up to that time, mining and agricultue were the totally
dominant sectors within the Bolivian economy. However, this situation beg. i changing due to factors
such as low agricultural production, changes in taditional ownership systems concerig land, the
collapse of the international tin market with the subsequent closure of mis, and the lack of industrial
development which could integrate the many unemployed workers in the countryside. The
manufacuring industry in Bolivia is still a relatively small sector within the global economy, with a
consequently restricted overall social impact; however, its social impacts have been increasing,
particularly as they are linked with broader urban social problems.
Rapid urbanization and excessive growth of the capital are two outstanding features of many
contemporary Latin American societies. The development of La Paz-Ll Alto in Bolivia is a typical
xx



exampic of tis phenomenon. On thc other hand. Bolivia contrasts with other Latin Ancrican countrics
in that industry devdepod out of the already cxisting cheap and abundant workforcc. rather than
anracting workcrs from othcr countries.
Me large influx of people to La Paz-El Alto has greatly exacerbated problems of unemployment and
sub-employmenL hibs situation has resulted In a rapid increase in She number of street merchants,
beggars, prostitutes. thieves and other people of undefined occupation. Heavy cime is, bowever, not
yet a major concern
The very inadequatc education level of this population does not permit them to seek qualified worL
On the contary. the abundance of unskilled laborers, including men, women and children, has brought
down the income of the urban poor. TIhus, wages are very low and work conditions extremely
deficicaL
her is little data on the impacts of industrial growth on public health in urban areas, but this is an
important concern, especially in the larger cities. Since most new industrial ventures will presumably
locate to existing industrial centers in urban areas, it Is urgent to address existing problems with
infrastmcture and the related social consequences in cities such as Cochabamba. El Alto, La Paz.
Onaro and Santa Cruz.
VL RECOMMENDED PRIORMIES FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION
PLAN FOR THE MING AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
Every environmental aspect of the mining and industrial sectors in Bolivia requires very substantial
improvement This section recommends priorities for consideration by the Government of Bolivia and
other interested parties in preparing an Enviromnental Mitigation Plan for the mining and industrial
sectors. It is divided into three parts: (1) broad policy, legal and Instituonal issues; (2) major targets
for mitigation; and (3) recommended priority activities.
A. Broad policy, legal and Institutional Issoes - darifying and Implementing policies to
promote sustainable development
In principle, the Environmental Law (supplemented by the environmental provisions of other recent
and proposed laws) contains all the necessary policy elements to carry out a long-term national
program geared towards sustainable, environmentally sound economic developmenL However, there
has been very little harmonization of these elements with preexistng policies, laws and pracices.
Effective implementasion of polices on sustainable development will depend on harmonization and
integration at the policy, legal and operational levels. Ibis must be, of course, an extended and gradual
process.
The Govemment must balance the need for designing new legal instruments and programs with fte
need to improve implementation of existing requirements and programs. We recommend building upon
existing requirements, programs and institutions wherever possible, and taking a cautious approach to
draffing new legal instruments.
xxi



Given the newness of the issues and the very limited resources available to tackle them, it may often
be more productive in the long run to begin with general regulatory frameworks supplemented by
voluntary guidelcnes and other coopcratvc activities with regulated entities, and to formalize detailed
new procedures  rugh more comprehensive final regulations as operational experience grows. The
inberent delays In finalizing legal requirements with this approach would be justified by the benefits of
ensuring that all paries are familiar with the goals and the probable outcome of such wodL
Allowing govenment and industry adequate time to prepare and adapt to the coming rules would build
the acdibility and effectiveness of environmental management efforts by ensuring that new legal
requirements are in fact appropriate and feasible. It would also reflec the reality that routine legal
enforcement wil not be a practical option in Boivia for some time; the inshtutonal infrastructure,
public awareness and political will necessary for enforcement of environmental mnansgement
rquirements do not yet exist.
Aside from the problems with weak legal implementation and enforcement capabilities. it is important
!o bear in mind that legal solutions, while imp t  ve restricted effectveness m any case. Clear-ly.
no govemment can undearake to regulate all sources of environmental harm at once; development and
application of such requirements must be incremental. Inevitably. most sources will n  be subject to
significant environmental regulation in the early days.
Thus, the success of environmental management efforts rests heavily on building human resources, as
well as broad outreach and education. Ihis requires action on two levds: (1) raising awareness within
government. the regulated community, other key Institutions, and the general public; and (2) providing
educaton, tnining and on-the-job experience at the university and professional levels for people
working in the many fields that affect environmental management
These considerations have clear application in Bolivia. As this sectoral assessment illustrates. ther are
enormous variations in the kinds of mining and industrial activities tbat contribute to environmntal
problems, and the nature of those problems vithin different regions of the country. The govemment
will nced to tailor its approach accordingly. Legal approaches, supplemented by outreach and
education, offer promise in working with the larger operations. On the othe hand, making
improvements among smaller sources, especially those operating in the infomal mining and indusnrial
ctors. will depend more on broad economic and social, rather than legal, responses.
Key concerns within the area of broad policy. legal and institutional issues include:
1. Strengthening governmental and nongovernmenal institutions.
Unclear institutional responsibilities and weak institutional capacity are a major obstacle to crrying
out public policy initiatives in Bolivia, as in many other developing countries. Even where policies and
laws glready exist, it will not be possible to apply them effectively without strengthening institutional
capabilities. Improving these problems will require claifying government institutional esponsibilities
and strengthening institutiona capabilities, with particular attention to inaeasing human resources.
xxii



2   Overall planning for sound use of land and natural resources.
Ihe resource conficts and planning problems identified in this stady reflect larger problems within
Bolivia - and many of them will be resolved only as the county is able to take on the underlying
issues. Ihe Natio   Envion     Law's call for development of an Ordenamiento Teritorial is
potentially the most comprehensive response. Tlhe laws being prepared on biodiversity. indigenous
peoples, water and foxestry may hclp to resolve some problems of natural resources management as
they apply to different seaors.
Some problems related to mining and industy, such as conflicts with specific agricultual and urban
uses of water. will have to be addressed case-by-case. Othe problems could be addressed trough
genilal policies even before formulation of additional laws; in some cases, new actions could draw
upon exisn examples.
3. Setting goals for ambient environmental quality.
Setting goals for ambient environmental quaity is one of the basic planning tools that governments
use for managing environmental quality and natural resource use. These goals set targets for
environmental quality, based on the primary intended use of a given resouce basc.
In the near term, we would nMt recommend attempting to establish detailed, comprhcnsive
eaviromnentsl quality goals in Bolivia. To do this effectively would require far more technical
resources and institutional capabilities than the Government cumrly possesses. However, the
Govenment could lay the groundwork for estabshing these goals, perhaps initialy through the
regulation on envirnmental quality.
4. PLaning for new investments-
Improved planning for new investments is a major key to braing the cycle of poor envionmental
managemeuL Designing beEr systeMs kom the beginning is much cheaper and mo  efficiemt than
changing existing systems. It Is also easier to inject pollution prevention mesures at the design stage.
In the mining sector, the firt priority should be to incorporate environmental consideations into the
rstrruing of COMlBOLs holdings. COM[BOLUs plans to do this with support from the World
Bank wil be a major step within the mining setor, and will signal clearly the GovernmenVs
commitment to iEs new policies on environment and sustainable developmenL Also, it wi'l set an
important precedent for any fumre resructuring activities in BoUvia.
In the industrial sector, the emphasis should be on implementing the ew regulation on EIA that is
now being prepared. SENMA and others involved in this process will have to plan carefully in terms
of how many and which new investments activities should be the early candidates for EIA. Tibs is
important to ensure that the extremely limited EIA capabilities in Bolivia are not overwhelmed, and
that there are some early successful experiences with this new requiemenL
xxii



5. Key regulatory and program implementation issues include:
a Chmng oj2ntity-bnscd and pnc-lased reguat  instrumnts for cnvirnmental manaement
Slecing the best mix of regulatory insments in any given situation depends on a thorough
ungerstanding of the particular context and circumstances. Bolivia needs to adjust its choice of
insrments to the realitles of local environmental management capabilities. since thr Is very limited
tchnical experdse and Institutional capadty.
b. Pmng environmentlly sound terlnologies and proe . As discussed above, the
accomplishment of envirnmentally sound praices cannot be achieved only throgh formal legal
requirements and inccntves lhis is particularly true for couries like Bolivia that have traditonally
weak public administrations.
An important alenative means of achieving eavioumental management goals is to induce industry to
au voluntarily. Ihis can be achieved by a combination of information and persuasion. PubUc opimion
and the activity of non-govermetal. organiz2tiom are ofte influential in this respecL Some of the
groundwork for encouragig industy awareness and voluntry improvements through this route has
been laid through Bolivia's use of widespread consultation in developing major environmental
inifiatives, such as new laws and the PAAB.
c. _Solid an hazardous waste management. Bolivia needs to begin establishing a basic firmework and
guideliun for sound waste management practices. At a minimum. the governme  needs to: identify
major categories of waste that should be handled separately; develop policies and guidelines for better
waste management. including waste reduction; and develop guideines andlor regulatory requirements
for saniay landfills. Ibis should be done in close coordination with local government authorities.
d. Labfimonitoi1ngcapaciti. Increasing Labratory and monitoring capabilities is
fundamental to improving the technical, scientfiw, and legal aspects of enviranental management in
Bolivia- lhe market for thes services will gradually increase as environmental management grows.
particularly if, as recommended above, government institions generally rely on private services-
bMakng the needed improvements will require sregthening both technial and human resources. An
important step would be establishing a central environmental laboratory charged with setting standards
for quality assurance and quality control, serving as a reference laboratory, and helping labomtoies
across the country to coordina.
e. Occupational health and safey and its socil_ imp_ications. The main problem here is weak
implementation, rather than inadequacy of existiang requiments. TMe existing legal requirements for
occupational health and safety are litte respected and the general awareness of these matus is low.
One reason for this undoubtedly lies in the major economic and social problems which are affecting
Bolivia. However. this predicament must not serve as an excuse for not acting to improve workers'
health and safety wherever such possibilities exist Opporemities do exist in the larger mines and the
formal industrial sector; initiatives for improvement will be most efficient if addressed to employers.
TIhe Government needs to examine how to inaease its own support for worker safety and also how to
inase donor support In the realm of environmental management, occupaional health and safety
measures could often be linked to broader questions of safe facility opeations and emergency
prepareds.
xxiv



Regarding more sPecific measures tO be taken, the occmrence of siticosis among miners is a major
concern A study from 1978-82 showed an average rate of silicosis of 11% among underrund
workers. It Is probable that the situation has improved since then thrugh the closure of some critical
mines and the introduction by some companies of health controls and approriate measures. On the
other side, many more winrs are today working in the informal sector. in mines with very
rudimentary ventlation and other preventive facilities. Generally speaktng. Uttle is known about the
present day extent of the problem, so a new wide investigation concemring the health stats of te
miners should be caried ouL ibus would provide a basis for subsequent decsions and measures.
Another urgent issue relating to the health of miners, is the regular use of mewary in the exploitation
for alluvial gold, with resulting possible intoxication, both in connectin with the process of
amalgamation and, indirectly, through the consumption of mercury-bearing fish.
£ Addressing environment prhems involvingsmall sources nd tmer. The main
piaoity is to gain a better understanding of the small scale and informal minino ectivities. Key
questions to be answered are: to what extent are small scale mining activities in Bolivia economically
viable?; to the extent that smal scale mining activities in Bolivia ame not economically viable, what
measures can help to address some of the health and environmental problems?; and wbat is the
experience of other developing countries in trying to address similar problems?
B. Major targets for midgadon
1. Coss-cutting areas
a. Planninp for new Investments. All new maim investments (new facilities and expansions of existing
facilities) shoud be planned and cxecuted according to "best available and economically feasible"
technologies ElAs should be inorporated into the permitting procedur for new operations, and
envirnmental audits for existng operations. Using envirnmenta  aits to belp plan the restructing
of COMIBOL wil be a major advance in beter planning for new investments.
b. Ouation2l bealth amd saet. As discussed in the preceding section, the Government needs to
make occupational health and safety a higher priority, at least in formal mining and industrial accivities
of above a certain size. This should involve examining possible formal and infonnal incentives and
also enlisting more support from international donors and assistance organizations.
2. The mining sectm
a.    [     envXmn        g     n    n    . Environmental conditions In the area of Oruro are
causing grave concer. The problem is very complex because it involves pollution from many different
sources, inludidg: acid mine waters from a great number of mines in te area; effluents from mineal
concentraion plans; euiluents and air emissions from smelters and other indusay acid drainage from
waste rock and tailings; and human waste and sewage.
The impacts of these problems are senous and difficult to fix: surface and presumably gmund waters
are being contaD:nated and made unsuitable for human consumputon or irrigation; economic damage is
xxv



caused thtiugh destruction of conunual water and sewage istallations; and the popdlatioa is directly
affected by samtazy problems connected with industral and urban pollution. Also, the ccosystcm of
Lake Poopo is seriously treatened. This poses serious threats to the fishing and the daily livelihood of
the Uru Muratos tibe, which lives on the shores of Lake Poopo. Ihe lake is also an importat
watefowl babitat.
Presenm kowledge about the situation is rstricted and superficial, and few initiatives have been taken.
Two limited studies have been proposed to FONAMA for funding under the Enteprise of the
Americas initiative; one on environmental conditions in Lake Popoo, and the other on conditions in
Orm  town. Also, tWo of the major mines of the area wil be audited under the COMIBOL
environmental program. In the following section on reommended priorty actions, the Study Team
suggests beginning a pilot project in the Oniro area on Intgrated envionmntal management.
b. Potosi and thC recession of the mining sedor. The city of Potosi is in a state of prolonged
economic crss due to the recession of the mining sector and the virtual lack of altrnafive occupation.
Added to these difficulties are the senous environmental problems caused by: water scarcity; acid
drainage from the Unificada mine; the very extensive small scale and misanal mineral exploitation in
the area; the unplanned establishment of coocentration planKs within the city boundaries; the
uncontrolled discharge of mining waste; and the unresicted release of communal waste and sewage
into rivers flowing through the city.
Tlhe result is an extremely unhealthy milieu with rivers and soils being higbly contaminated. within the
city as weU as downstream for tn of kilometers. However, there is litte specific and quantitative
information about baseline environmental conditions, or the health impact on people iving and
worling in the area Ihe Study Team has supported SENMA in reorientg a planned study. to be
financed by FONAMA, towards the problem of pollution from the small concenAtion plants within
Pouosi and the relautd effects on the nearby population. Anoter planned activity is the COMIBOL
environmental audit of the Unificada mine (Cer Rico).
c. Minpgfor, alluviM ol in PM   of th Anazon bain in Bolivir Palts of the Amaon basin in
Bolivia are seriously affected by destuction and contamimtion related to the mining of alluvial gold.
Present activities do not seem to be significantly affecing indigenous peoples, but the potential impact
both on them and on the ecosystem in general need to be investigated.
Remediation of existing eavironmental damage will be a complex task. A huge complicating factor is
that the ares in question are largely outside of public control and without infrastructure. Health service
is rudimentary and serious accidents are very common. By and large, protecing the environment or
workers' health and safety are unknown conceptions.
There is only very limited information about actual conditions in the area or the interrelation among
ecological, economic, technical and social factors. The 1992 study conducted by L[DEMA in an
excellent star Ihis type of work should be extended to Tipuani and other areas.
The more direct task of eiminating the use of mercuy - or. more realistically, of improving the
procedures used in the amalgamation process - is a matter of enforement (in the limited instanees
where this is possible) and more generally of education and information. Even though this task is
fundamentally the responsibility of governmet authorities, nongovernmenal organizations could play
a major role.
xxvi



d  Small scale 2ni informal mining activifies ani thrir social and environmCntal implic2,ions. The
terrible occupational and environmental hazards linked to small scale and informal mining are
grounded in BoliviEs pessing economic and social problems. Like more generl worker health and
safety problems, it Is difficult to see how these hazards can be significantly improved apart from
amelioraing the underlying situaLion.
COMIEBOL's plan to lease mining rights on some of its less productive holdings to cooperatives is
likely to rsult in deteriorating health, safety and environmental conditions, as compared to the
situation when the mines were previously operated on an industrial basis. COMIBOL should explore
the possibilities for minimizing, if not eliminating, the potential for some of the most dangerous types
of small scale operations to be carried out In holdings that are newly leased to coopcLatives and other
small ventres. If here is some success in this area, COMIBOL should consider how any such
msures could eventually be applied to other holdings that are already leased.
3. The industrial sector
Overall, this environmental assessment Indicates at the enviromental and occupational problems
related to the manufacturing Industrial sector In Bolivia have a more lmited scope and are less acute
than those identified witin the mining sector. Nonetheless, there are several regions where mitigation
measures need to be taken in the short or medium term, as summarized below.
a. Poor urban and infustrial snninnifn El Alto. 'he most precarious environmental situaion, both
with regard to industrinized and urban areas, is encouatered in the city of El Alto. The almost
complete lack of adequate industrial and urban planning, provision of basic infrastructure and
municipal services (eg. water supply and sewerage systems with apprpriate waste reatment facilities)
gives this city a high priorty when it comes to remedial action. Moreover, the prsent uncontrolled
disposal of liquid and solid wastes threatens the very sensitive cosystetms in the closed Altiplano
Basin. including Lake Titicaca The present effoats to find solutions to the very complex waste
disposal problems in El Alto should be given fUll support Implementng the appropriate solution will
no doubt require financial support from sources outside the municipality of El Alto The scope of the
problem is so great    the GOB will have to take a responsibility for its solution, probably in
cooperation with foreign assistance efforts.
b. P_llutinn of the ChouN u River in La Paw The heavy pollution of the Choqueyapu River in La
Paz, caused by bath untreated industial and domestic wastcs, has reached such dimensions that the
river can be regarded as an open sewer going through the whole city. In addition to the advezse
aesthetic consequences, this situation creates obvious health hazards to the people living close to the
nver banks, to those who exact sand and gravel from the river bed, to those who use the water for
irrigation downsteam of the city, and to those who consume the crops produced in the irrigated areas.
The industries located within the city of La Paz should be given incentives or be forced to reduce their
water consumption by recycling of process water and to undertake pre-tatment of at least their most
hazardous wastes (toxic substnces and heavy metals). Complete on-site wastewaer treatment by all
polluting industries may be difficult due to lack of available land  Therefore, a collective treaMent
plant for all wastewater from the city might be the only realistic solution. For many years, various
solutions have been discussed, but so far, no final solution has been defined. The main problems seem
to be high costs both for construction and for contimuing operation and maintenance.
xxvii



However. the problems will only get worse and become even more expensive to fix as time goes on. It
is therefore strongly recommended that the municipality of La Paz and the GOB give this question a
high prioritv and select a solution to be implemented as soon as possible. As part of tieir response,
they should consider developing an institational arrangement for managing municipal water and sewer
sorvices similar to the ones used in Cochabamba and Santa Cruz.
C. IJpgrading waterghed manaeret in  L nt_ Cn  The municipality of Santa Cruz has already
provided adequat facilities for proper environmental management by the great part of its industry that
Is located in the Industrial estate. Most of the remaining industry in this region needs to upgrade its
envirumental managemenLt High priority should be given to the industries located in the valleys of
the Pirai and Chane luvers; most of these plants have inadequate or no wastewater  atmenL
Mitigating pollution of the Pirai River can only be accomplished through an integmated control and
management program covenng the whole watershed. Sound river basin management is necessary to
ensure that the multiple use of the river for recration, swimming. fishing and irrigation continues to
bc possiblc at thc samn time as it is uszd as a recipicat for adequately tcated effluents. Groundvater
monitoring is also necessary in order to evaluate the cafnt degree of contamination and make any
needed plans for protecting the futre water supply.
Ihere is already a regional organism, SEARPI, tat is responsible for several aspects of river basin
management In the Piral River catchment area. SEARPI should be given extended responsibility to
carry out more comprehensive environmenal management programs, in cooperation with industry.
SAGUAPAC and the regional Corapion for Development (CORDECRUZ).
ci Extending sewerae yses in Coc4wbamka. The municipality of Cochabamba has also taken
several commendable initiatives to reduce industrial polution in the city. The next step should be to
extend pollution control activities to thdse parts of the city wiuc are not presently covered.
Studies ar: alremuy in progre  to extend the sewerge systems to the easter and wester parts of the
city, and also to provide supplementary wastewater tatment facilities. Industries located in areas that
vnll eventually be equipped with sewers will have to install or upgrade their treaument systems, as well
as their solid waste management practioes. However, it appears that none of these improvements will
be possible until the city can resolve jurisdictional and political disputes with adjacent municipalities.
Therefore, resolving these disputes should be given top pnorlty.
C. Recommended priority acdvities
Ibis section identifies from the broad list of priorities above a subset of activities that the Study Team
believes could help _n=ye futur cac  to design and implement effec_ive prg s fo
envirnm     mangeMent In the rning and Industrilsectors. It may be possible to incorporate
some of tese acivities into ongoing projects of the World Bank cr other international orgaizations.
In other case, undertaking these activities will require new resources.
xxviii



1. Cross-cutting themes
In any activities undetaken, there should be a concerted effort to design the wali so that it:
a.                            t _ _ m b    I _ _pX on-the-job aminlng and
improvement of txhnical capabilities and facilities.
b. Stss  congensuM appmacbes 2nd hroad paicipato by all affected sectors and parties.
c. Helpis to Mrmote incentives and miiiesincentivesq to the cffirieCt Use of natural resources.
d. Contrihutes to bulding s   eent dtab2se on envirnncital con in Bolivia.
2.  Improved envirnmental management for major sources
The emphasis here should be on improved planning for future investments (both new and expanded
facilities) and addressing the most serious problems in existing major facilities. Wherever possible,
envionmental improvements should be linked to greater production efficiencies.
a. Incoporatng environment_ l con _idertins into the retcting of C'OMIBO  as effectively as
possible.
b- &jenythenirlg the development and application of environmental impa= a-ssesment procdure in
the dmning and indusial sectors.
c. Uang environmental audts of existing facilities to serve as a basis for negotiating needed
improvements, to be done on a voluntary basis or eventually as part of the permitting process.
d. Bette planning infmasrutue and mn_gement f_r industal estates. with El Alto receiving the
highest priority.
e. Delong gfideinesand pit proects in cooertion with indu   to build kmowledge and
expence
3.  Issues requiring furter study
Among the many Issues requiring fiurter study, the following are especially importat:
a. Conditions, underlying causes and ways to address _nvionmental and health poemS relatedt
small scalc hard rock mining and alluivial gnld mining
b. Choosing _nd implementing goals for ambient environmentalulity including developing an
effective mix of regulatory instruments.
xxix



C. Idlentifyino andl adresdn key economic factr, such as: clarifying what changes will be required
in national or local laws In oidcr to adopt appropriate price-based regulatory instruments; pricing and
implemcntation regimes for water, waste disposal and energy servicCs; and other economic mcasures
that can promote more efficient resource use and managemeuL
d. Clarifyng what Mmas   r needed to lproere sensitive ecot ms from mining and Industial
activities..
c.   JCj3 ng.-iflabIC human and technical resources and dtiniing how to maIe maXimm iuse
of thcse msources and how to increasc them.
4.  Proposal for a regionai pilot aCtivity - integrated envirnment management in the Oruro legion
Trhe Study Team believes that Ihere is an urgent need in Bolivia to begin addrssing in an integrated
fasion thc complcx linkages of exisring and projected problems associated with mining and indstzrial
development, as identified in tbis sectoal environmental assessmenL The team recmmends locating
such a pilot project in the Oruro area
Oruro represents a striking confluence of many of the major pmblems idenified in this sectoral
environmental assessmenL This drainage basin is experiencing multiple stresses due to the proximity
of mining fields and industrial activities to an urban alea and Lake Poopo. a sensitive ecosystem which
is the home of the Um Mwuatos tribe. Ouro already has an important institutional base with Which to
work, including laboratory and research capabilities.
Building technical and institutional capacity for environmenl monitoring and environmental
management in ruro would offer a focus for coordinated application of many of the priority activities
recommended above; it could also offer a model and training ground for maling similar improvements
elsewhere in Bolivia.
D. Analysis of alternadves
The recommended piorities for an Environmental Mitigation Plan will be critical to the success of
Bolivia's new efforts to improve environmental management of the mining and industrial secws and
also to lay the groundwork for successful design and implementation of the future environmental
projects in these sectors. They proposed areas of concentraon are relatively discreet and manageable.
factors that are important given the limited resources, especially institutional capacity, that are
available in Bolivia. Other national planning issues, sudc as broada questions of land use and resource
management, are too diffuse and involve too many legal and Institutional unertnies to make them
good candidates for activities designed specifically for the mimng and indusrial sectos.
The Study Team recommends focusing on program design and implementation. rather than drafting
new legal requirements, for two reasons. Fr  there are already activities, including the JGF and
ETAP administered by the World Bank. to help with legal drafling - an activity at receives
considerable donor support already. Second, future environmental improvements in the mining and
industrial sectors will depend heavily on stengthening practical capabilities within BoUvia to identify
environmental problems and carry out needed improvements.
xxx



As for the proposed regional pilot activity, Oruo seems by far the most suitable area. None of the
other regions and cities surveyed has a comparable mix of mining and industrial activity affecting a
nearby, well defined urban area and an important ecosystem, including the special concerns of an
indigenous tibe. The problems of Potosi are in many ways unique to that area because of its extreme
dependnce on minin. The problems of El Alto and La Paz are closely tied to complex urban
planning issues and have limited relation to current mining activities. Santa Cruz and Cochabamba also
lack a significant mining component. Alluvial gold mining in the Amazon basin in Bolivia is anodher
unique case and it would be exceptionally difficult to monitor conditions there or carry out an
extensive mitigation program.
E. Environmental management and training
Building institutional capacity for environmental management is proposed as a central aspect of all
recommended activities. Participants should be drawn from the public and private sectors, including
government, commercal enterprises and organiacns, universities, research insitutes, local
communities and NGOs.
F. Environmental monitoring of activities adopted as part of an Environmental Mitgation Plan
Developing criteria and procedures for monitoring environmental impacts of the recommended
activities selected for implementation will be one of the tasks in designing specific prjecLs.
VII PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
The Study Team and its Bolivian counterparts consulted with a wide range of organizations within and
outside of government A number of infoxmal meetings were held with the private industry,
represeted by the National Chamber of Industry, and the National Association of Medium Miners.
This to inform about the objective of the study, to hear the opinions of these organizations, and to
urge these organizations to take active part in the imminent formulation of laws, regulations, and codes
of conduct
A. Seminars
As an integrated part of the sudy program. two seminars have been held in La Paz: a) a three-day
seminar on "MIning and the Environment", with the participafion of three lectus from Sweden; b) a
two-day seminar regading "Environmental questions within the non-mining Induslrial sector". with
lecturers drawn from the SES team. The two seminars were arranged by SENMA- Each was attended
by about 60 professionals from the relevant sector. The seminars included lecur  within the
following main themes:
xxxi



General subjects
- Mining opeations and thcir environmental consequences
- Measures for the protection of the enviroament in mining ventures
- Legal. economic, and stagic means for improving the protection of the envi- ment as
related to mining
- Environmenta management and audits in the investigation of water quality in rivers and lakes
- Regulation of industrial contuminations
- Industrial occpational health and safety
Addressing Bolivian condifions
- The envirnment in Bolivia, with case presentations, intenational comparisons and
recommendations
- Enviromnental laws and regulations as applied in Latin America
- Health and safety in Bolivian industry: obser,.Aions, intcrnaonal comparisons =nd
recommendalions
- Panel debate concening the Bolivian mining and the eavironment
- One-day case exercise (in work groups) in planning an environmentally satisfactory mining
opeaton based on certain given, fictitious conditions
Extensive and engaged discussions accompanied the diffirent points of presentatio  All lectues vere
also distributed in written form.
B. Consultatlon regarding the flnal report
A draft Executive Summary and EA report (both tanslated into Spanish) were presented tO SENMA
in mid-April 1993. SENMA ciruated the draft for review to more than 40 differen organizations that
epresented a wide diversity of expertise and inerests (see Appendix HI). These rganizations were
given two to three weeks to submit written commeas on the dra. In late May. core members of the
Study Team retned to Bolivia to review thes comments and consult more closely with counteparts
and othe at meetings organized by SENMA: one in Cochabamba on May 20, 1993 (in connection
w.th ar. international mning fair), with concentration on mining Issues; and another in La Paz on May
24, 1993, focusing on the manufacturing industry. Ihese meetings had 25 and 12 participants,
respectively. Altogether 15 written comments have been received. he many valuable commen
produced, as well as opinions presented in the discussions, have belped appreciably in improving the
reporL
sxxil



VIIm APPENDICES
This report is accompanied by the following appendices:
L List of EA preparrs
II. Bibliography
mL  Program of seminarslist of consulted organizations
IV. Technical appendices (two separate volumes, including totally 13 supplementary techoical reports)
xLXn



PART 1: INTRODUCTION
L BACKGROUND
This is a seccal Environmental Assessment (EA) of the mining and industrial sectors in Bolivia. Its
purpose is to lay the foundations for more effective environmental planning and management in these
sectrs. The EA has been cared out by Swedish Environmental Systems with financig from the
Swedish govcrament, in coopeation with the World Ban.L The Study Team's lead institutional cOUn-
terpart has been the National Secretanat for the Envronment, although txy have also worked closely
with the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy. Many other public and private organizations partcipated
in this work.
The report is organized in eight parts.
1. Introduction
2. Baseline data
3. PoUcy, legal and institational fmework
4. Assessment of the mining sector
5. Assessment of the Industrial (-annfacuring) sector
6. Recommended priofities for an Environmental Mitigalion Plan
7. PubUc participation
8. Appendies'
This EA presents an overall diagnosis of environmental conditions and identifies strategic priorities.
TIhe recommended priorities for an Environmental Mitigation Plan include both broad policy, legal and
institutionl issues, and specific targets for environmental mitigation in the mining and industrial
sectors. Of these priorities, the EA recommends a subset of activities to be given priority in future
activities of the government of Bolivia, the World Bank and other interational organizations. These
activities fall into three categories:
l. Improved environmenl management for major sources of e  mironental problems;
2. Issues requiring further study; and
3. A proposed pilot project on integrted environmental management in the Oriro region.
In all these activities. there should be emphasis on building institutional capacity, developing consen-
sual approaches with boad participation, and promoting more efficie. . use of natural resources.
'Part IV of the Appendices are workcing papers prepared by inrdividual consultants during the
EA process. In some instances, they may not reflect the final conclusions of the Study Team, as
presented in this repori
I



II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Te.rs of reference and objectives
Ihc present Environmental Assessment was onginally dcefined as a Study of Industrial Pollution Miti-
gation, contning tWo parts:
1. A technical part with the ubjectivc to: a) Identify and assess the impacts of the major sources
of industal water pollution and occ-'pational health and safety deficiencies; and b) to rcommend
short- and mcditm-term strategies to amcliorate theme
2. A legal and institutional part with the objective to: a) provide an analysis to assist in the design
of a regulatory and Institutlonal framework for mitigation of industrial pollution and workae
health and safety; b) draft proposed amendments to related laws and regulations; and c) recom-
mend cnteria to identify investment projects for which special mitigation feaes should be in-
cluded.
As the result of an initiative from the World Bank. the terms of reference for the Study were modified
during Its execution to include the necessary elements to be used as a sectoral Environmental Assess-
ment Thus were added the issues of sectoral expansion impact on a) social problems; b) land degrada-
tion; and c) ecologically sensitive areas. Also, the legai and technical parts of the study were com-
bined.
B. Methodology (working strategy)
MTe work has been carried out by a team frm Swedish Environmeta Systems (SMS). consstdng of
seven members, in close oDopaation with a counterpart group appointed by the National Envirnmen-
tal Secretaiat (SENMA). The SES group has comprised environmental expertise within the areas of
mining, non-mining industy, occupational helth and safety, economy, institutional devlopment. and
legal matters The counterpart group has consisted of repsentatives for the Ministry of Mining and
Metallurgy (MMM), SENMA, and the Institute for Occupational Health (INSO) (further details are
given in Appendix 1). SENMA provided special expertise on ecology. Additional experise on econo-
mics and sociology was obtained from Bolivian oDnsultants through SENMA.
The team's approach to study and execution of the work was as follows:
1. Collecting background information regarding the mining and industrial sectwas and environ-
mental conditions from key ministries and other relevant government organizations.
2. Establishing contacts with trade associations and major company groups, such as COMIBOL,
the state-owned mining company.
3. Choosing mining and industial facilities to be visited. Selections were made from official
registers and suggestions fom trade organizations, based on the following criteria: (1) representa-
tive ooverage of all significant industrial subsectors; (2) balanced geographical coverage; and (3)
including companies of differec size and production capacity. Within the industrial sector, the
2



number of employees in the plants visited ranged from 10-650 employees; in most cases, the team
concentrated on plants having between 50 and 250 employees.
4. Visiting different facilitics to gather data through: (1) visual inspection. (2) interviews with
managers and employees; and (3) sampling of water effluents and solid waste.
In general, the team was subdivided into two field groups, one responsible for the mining sector
and the other for mnufacting industry; there was also some overlap between the two subgroups
to help ensure adequate coordination. Ihe team speciaLst on occupational health and safety parti-
cipated in the field visits of both groups. lhe legal and regulatory specialists participated in a
limited number of site visits.
Altogether, the team visited about 80 faclUties, located within the areas of Cochabamba, La Paz,
Oruro, Potosi, Quechisla and Santa Cnz lhe team was not able to visit any alluvial gold ming
sites In the Amazon basin because heavy rains made transport there vcry difricuiLlbe team
collected more than 150 water and soil samples. Ihese samples were analyzed for heavy metals
andlor organic components, using the services of tree Bolivian laboratories (see Appendix IV.4
on laboratory facilities and capacities).
5. Organizing the basic documentation collected during the team's field visits into site-specific
checldists ('listas de chequeo"). These materials have been prnvided to SENMA, but they are not
included as part of this report because they contain confidential information.
6. Interviewing and consulting with government authorities, trade associations. nongovemmental
organizations and others on both legal and technical matters.
The team's work was initiated with a lick-off and planning meeting In La Paz in the end of October
1992. The field work has becn carried out in two phases of about two months' duration each, during
November-December 1992 and January-February 1993. respectively. A progre  report was presented
in late December 1992.
As an integrated part of the study program, two seminars were held in La Paz (see Part 7, Public
participation).
A draft final report was presented to SENMA in mid-April 1993. SENMA cireated the draft to about
50 differenit affected organizations for review. Final consultation with counterparts and organizations
took place in La Paz and Cochabamba in late May 1993 (see Part 7. Pmblic participation).
3



PART 2: BASELINE DATA
L GEOGRAPHY
Boliia Is located in the cener of the South American continentL and covers a surface -rea of
1,098,580 km2. Briefly desaibed, Bolivia's territory comprises three main physiographic regions
(Fig.2:1): the Andean region covering about 28% of the tenritory in the central west and southwest
parts of the country; the sub-Andean region, c3mprising the mid-thermal valleys in the departments of
Cochabamba, Chuquisaca and TanJa, as well as the cxtreme Andcan ndges in the department of Santa
Cruz; and the eastern lowlands, covering more than 65% of the country's territory, and comprising the
Beni plains in the north, thir Pecambrian shield and the almost desertic Chaco plains in the south and
southeasL
Ihe great diversity in topography and physiography produces a widc -angc of climatic conditions
(Fig.2:2). The Altiplano. located at an altitude of 3.800 - 4,000 meters above sea level. lis dry and
cold weather with extreme daily variations, resulting in very scarce vegetation. In the northern part of
the Altiplano, Soihe agricultUral actLivity occurs in the Lake nticaca basin. In the higher valleys, poor
grass cover occurs in only limited areas.
In the southen extreme of the country, extensive evaporite fidds occu as salt lakes, covering a sur-
face of more than 12.000 km2. The northem portion of the eastern lowlands consists of tropical rain
forests, which change, further to the south, into subroical vegetation with savannas and drier grAs-
lands.
]L GEOLOGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES
The bedrock of Bolivia can be subdivided into six major, north-southf tending. structurl units, from
west to east:
Dhe Western CDBMICM consisting of geologically young (Tertiary-Quatenary) volcanic forma-
tions: stratovolcanoes in the north and a volcanic plateau in the south. Altitudes vary between
4,500 and 6.500 meters.
he Altiplano, a mostly flat, intermoutane basin of continental sediments at an altitude of 3,650-
4000 meters.
I;l Easmrn  a belt of mainly Paleozoic, stongly folded sedimentary rcks, eroded into
a deeply cut topography. The norther pan (the Cordillera Real) contalns high peaks consisting of
granite plutons.
'The Subandean me forms the foothills of the Andes. It consists of folded, connenal sediments.
Valleys and ranges reacfi elevations of 500-2,000 meters.
4



ifc Beni-Claco plains lowlands at an altitude of less than 250 meters. The Beni lowlands in the
north belong to the Iropic Amazon basin while the dry Chaco lowlands in the south arc part of
the Rfo de la Plata basin. Alluvial deposits ar covering a thick Tertiary redbod formatioL
'Tbe PrEcMubrimn shirld is the continuafion of the Brazilian Shield, consisting of gmanites, sdhists
and basic intrusions. Altitudes vary from 100 to 600 meters above sea level.
Since the 16th century, mining has been the totally dominant Industrial activity in Bolivia Some of the
fis deposits to be discovered are still being cxploited. Many hundreds of deposits have been worked,
containing a wide variety oi metallic dements. Howev, In gene. It may be said that all of these
deposits belong to one and the same type: polymetallic. hydrothermal veins. The deposits occur in the
Eastern Cordillera or in a similar bedrock occurring as primuding mountains in the Altiplano. The
veins are generally narow and steeply dipping. These characteistics. malckg the deposits less amen-
able to large scale exploitation, have assisted in maiaining the low degree of mechanizon in the
operations. The deposrs may contain one or several minerals of tin, lead, zinc, silver, andmony, tung-
sten, coppcr, aad bismuth. in diffeent associationS or in different parts of the same vein system.
Copper has always played a minor role in comparison with, for example, tin, zinc and lead.
An only recently recognized type of deposit is that of gold as dissemination in granitold rocks, as for
examNe in the new operton of Int; Raymi (siuated In a hill In the Altiplano). Another non-tradi-
tional commodity is lithium, ocwmnng in the Uyuni salt flats (southern Altiplano). It has recently been
the objea of negotiaLion for eventual exploitation. In the Amazon area, extensive xploitation for gold
Is carried otit in a number of places ExtAcion methods vary from artsanal panning to large scale
drdging operations.
The Precambrian area of the eastern part of the country has been very little exploed but is thought to
prsent good possibilities. Several finds of massive sulde mineralizatios have been made there
during the last few yeas, but it IS still too early to know anything more definitely about the economic
potential of the area. The large Iran ore deposit of Mut6n has been exploited on a modest scale since
many years. However, duc to lack of a nearby market and high transport costs for such bulk materials,
the fiture seems uncertain.
Potential areas for future mining represen about 30% of Bolivia's surfae. distibuted among the
following areas: the Andes; NE Bolivia, induding te easten slope of the Andes; and the Prcambrian
of easten Bolivia (Fig.2:3).
Most of the Andes is characterized by a high density of mineal occurrences with a great variety of
metals and good possibilities for finding new deposits. The Westem Cordillera has recently attracted
much attention fom mining companies. The area consists of volcanic rocls and sediments, intruded by
subvolcanic stocks. Ihese have a high potential for the existence of epitermal, bulk minable, precious
metal deposits. Of seondary Interest, but stiU important, are the numerous native sulphur deposits.
Ihe Eastern Cordillera, the histonically and presenty most productive area, still represents good prs-
pecting ground for new deposits. Only recently attention has been given to large-scale deposits related
to Teriary volcanics and intusives.
5



1)\  ^Fti   -                               BOL IVIA
-  Mein Rood         Relief (._I)    Clirnoli Zones
Smcomdwy Reods   -  we. aal,
Rosiloods        3am            J COO 30 413WO-Deoo^l
R~.                  -   *  0     @ rmw. i t AM
' -8,,R    4           I           TROC
-  ~~~~~~~~~~*gI9 AZIL
1'        -  -~~~~~~~~~ ~PEEU~
z1~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a A E  --41T
L.        ,    .       ,1
C-M ~ ~   ~    ~     (       -
_                        rru_                               1 .
RE
LLJ~~~~~ 
PARAGUAY                         n,
, SOUTHA  !,'CA
l ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   A     1 4\@, e    o. o                 ao   *-    I    ,'
U                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Ad7IA&
6cf.
--A   R  G   E  N         I  N  A
Fig. 2:1 Geography of Bolivia. Source: Ihe World Bank
6



Fig. 2:2 Climate map of Bolivia Source: after CYMAD (1992). Explanations: Hp High mountain
poLar, Bp Barren plain with dry cold winter, St Barrn plain with hot dry wintcr, Mt Mesodtmal, Dw
Barren plain with very hot dry winter, Td Tropical with dry winter. lb Tropical humid.
7



M UIN POTENTLALAREAS
,   ,,}   BOUVLA
W                 t     ~~~~~~~~W
Z~~~~E  wi n
t    ^ OC
WA.  '   R                        x       /~~~APfTAFA
Fig. 2:3 Areas of mining potential in Bolivia Source: SGAB - GEOBOL
Alluvial gold is being exploited in several areas of the vast Amazon basin. Very extensive potential
areas are still untouched by these activities.
The Precambrian stield of easten Bolivia reprse   a major target for funtre mining activities. It will
still require substantial exploration efforts to be evaluated, but the indications so far are promising:
gold-bearing gmenstone belts; major ultmmafic layered complexes with copper, nickel, chromium and
platinum group metals; pegmatite fields with columbium and tin-bearing granites, similar to those
exploited in Rondonis In Brazil; gold-bearing massive and disseminated sulphide deposits; and an
alkaine carbonatite province. At present, only one medium-scale mine is going to start operations,
while two major gold and gold-copper prospects are being evaluated.
A more detailed description of tbe mining sector is presented in Part 4, chapter I of this reporL
8



IIL HYDROLOGY AND WATER RESOURCES
lMe total amount of surface water annually available in Bolivia is estimated at about 317.600 million
mi. Tibis hydrological potential is distributed among tbree major watesheds with a very unequal avail-
ability of wat per unit surface (Fig.2:4):
The AMmaon basin- which covers 66% of the territory, includes 88% of the total amount of wat
and channels It thrugh several major rivers, Abung, Madre de Dios, Beni, Mamorw, I1ene
Orthon, and Yatla.
iRo  de In rlatabasin witih 21 % of the country,s land surface, represents 1 1.5% of the hydro-
logical potential and features as the main rivers Pilcomayo, Bermejo. and Paraguay.
The closed hasin onr Altinlao occupies 13% of the land surface of the country, but has only 0.5%
of the surface water resources. The main river. DLsaguadero, connects -ake Titicaca with Lake
Poopo. and a number of smaller rivers (Twco, Lauca and Rlo Grande de Llpez) drain the land
surrounding the large salt lakes in the south
The three basins contain 30 navigable rivers (about 20,000 kn), most of them being navigable the
whole year around. The most impoant waterways are the rivers Marmorz, Itenez and Beni. Io the
east, Bolvia has access to the navigable system of Rlo de la Plata, through the canal Tamengo, which
connects to the Paraguay river. In addition. Lake fticaca has a boat traffic with passenger and freight
services between Bolivia and Peru. The fluvial transport sector has shown, for several years. a conti-
nuous increase in tonnage and passengers of about 9% per year.
The hydrodectric potential in Bolivia has been exploited only to a minimal extenL Hydroelectric
plants with total installed power of 360 MW are in operation, representing 2% of the exploitable
potential and about 1% of the estiated total potential. The exploitable waterfals are located mainly in
the headwatrrs of the rivers Beni, Grande, Pilcomayo and Bermejo. As of 1989, hydroelectric power
represented only a minor fraction (about 6%) of the total energy production in Bolivia and electricity
accounted for only 7% of the energy consumption in the country.
The extaactive uses of water in Bolivia are not very well known, but it is esfimated that abot 85% of
the 1.5 million hectares under cultivation are irnigated (11% in the Altiplano and 13% in the valleys),
mainly through small-scale liTigation systems. With an average water use of 5,000 m3/ha, the total
demand for water for inrigation is about 640 million m31year. The total surface water consumption by
industry and for production of potable wat is poorly known. However, it has been estima   that the
mining industry consumes about 315 million m31year of surface water. Taking into account that the
great majority of this consumption takes place in the Altiplano, it represents a moderate 2% of the
available water resource in tis basin; however, the water resources are unevenly distributed and in
many mining centes the supply of water is scarce.
There is only limited data abot groundwater resources in Bolivia because most areas rely on surface
water. However, the cities of Santa Cruz and Oruro, as weU as parts of the city of Cochabamba, rely
on groundwater. There is little infomaion about the quantity or environmental quality of these
groundwater supplies.
9



As far as the living aquatic resources are concened, it has been estimated that less than 10% of the
fishery potential is utilized. Traditionally. the fisheries in river Pilcomayo were the most imponant in
the country, but lately, the catches in the Amazon basin, in Lak Titicaca and particularly in Lake
Poopo have increased so that river Pilcomayo is no longer ttAe main fishing area in the country. How-
ever, In spite of the inaease in total catches from 3,125 tors in 1980 to 7,134 tons in 1990, the conti-
bution to the GNP by the fishery sector was only a very modest 0.21%.
A particularly pv.ssing pioblem in Bolivia is that many of the zones with intensive economic activities
coincide with areas wher the water resources are very scarce. This is true in the entire Altiplano
basin, as well as in the region of Cochabamba. and indeed, this situation creates conflicts between the
various water users. For example, the intensive mining activitics in the closed basin of Altiplano cause
a degradation of the quality of the very scarce water resource, which is not compatible with a multi-
purpose use of this resource, for drinking water supply, for irrigation of crops and for fisheries (in
Lake Poopo). Therefole, wten setting environmental goals in the future, it can bc foreseen that these
have to be much stricter, avoiding any unnecessary contamination, in a closed basin such as the Alti-
plano with many conflicing demrnds for w2ter use, than for ex2mple in the lower Amazon basin,
where the amount of water is not a limiting factor. The Cochabamba area. as well as the city of La
Paz. both located in the headwates of the Amazon basin, are special cases, where particular caution
must be exercised In order to secure a safe ard effecfive multipurpose use of the limited water re-
source
WV. AREAS OF ECOLOGICAL SENSIIIVI
Altogether 43 areas have been declared nature leserves in Bolivi. IThe origin and reasons for the
prtecive measures, as well as the acta  status of the different reserves, vary greatly. In fact, the
slection citena have been so erratic that SENMA at present is canrying out a reevaluation which
Presumably will cause the cancelation of some of these reserves and modification in size of otles.
Another tool for the regional evaluation of ecological sensitivity (developed for SENMA by the Con-
sernation Data Center of Bolivia) is a computer-constructed map (Fig.2:6), based on the following
criteria:
3   Ecological fragility. including such factors as soil quality, vegetation cover, hydrological regime,
geomorphology, and geology.
*  Endangered species, endemic or threatened with extinction, including flora as well as fauna.
*   Accessibility, defined as human influence by means of access by road
Thus, the following main categones of ecological sensitivity have been defined
Highbsensitivil. Ecological regions of high ecological fragility. little knowledge concerning the pre-
sence of endangered species, and with good accessibility.
10



Medium sensitivity. Ecological regions of moderate ecological sensitivity (due to, i.a. less compacted
soils), some knowledge concening the knowledge of endangered species, and with access mainly
though minor roads.
LIo snsi. Ecological regions of low ecological fragility (partiaclaily from a geomorphological
point of view), good knowledge of endangered species, and with diflicult access.
As seen from te map (Fig.2:6). the general featurcs show high ecological sensitivity in the lowlands,
particularly in parts of the Amazon basin and in the soudtasten border areas towards Brazil, while
most of the AlLiplano is regarded as less sensitive. It is expected that this type of base for ecological
plnning will be elaborated *brthe in thC coing years.
Fig. 2:4 Hydrography of Bolivia. Source: after CYMAD (1992)
11



VwK  tmmMm                 EUIWk SMFr
w°                                           <~~~~~~~~~~~etA
r      O         ~~~~~~-ALIMO
VOC W              W 
FMw          /     b 
a     
WMA                                         3p
Fig. 2:5 Nature reserves in Bolivia. Source: SENMA
12



ECOREGIONES DE BOLIVIA
GRADOS DE AIIENAZA
D  km
fl  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At
Criturios: Suelos
4.                          ~~~~~~~~Tipo IJgogtacion
Accebt,i liiad
Act .Humaua
Fig.. 2:6 Map of environmental sensitivity. Source: Conservation Data Center of Bolivia
13



V. DEMOGRAPHICS ANI) SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDMTIONS
A. The Indigenous populaton
The Bolivian population has Its origin in the fusion of two fundamental ethnic components: the indi-
genous and the SpanishL Its distribution, evolution and mixing has been, and stDll is, influenccd by
geographical, social, and economic facors.
The aboriginal inhabitns of the Bolivian terdtory have been gruped in we lngWuisdc groups: the
Andean group, the Tupf-guaranf group, and the Araguaco group. To the Andan grop belong primmi-
ly the Aymaras and the Quccuas. who inhabit the Altiplano, the Cornllcra Oriental and the eastern
valleys, and at preseat through the migrations of the last ten yem, also fte easten part of te
country. The Urus and Chipayas. who live in the urroundings of Lake Poopo and re close to extinc-
tion, also belong to this group. The Andean population, traditionally makdng their living kom farming
and mining, have been profoundgy affected by the decline in the economy, which has substantially
changed the socio-economic structure and obligcd peoplc to look for new alteratives. OIne of these
factors was the massive dismissal of workers at the Comibol mines, which obliged many minem to
'relocate" themselves into coopeaives whem the way of working is very primitive and the ife con-
ditions very hard. Another altemative of these unemployed workers was to move towards the north-
east and integrate themselves under precatious conditions in the exploitations of the alluvial gold depo-
sits in certain areas within the Bolivian Amazon basin (for more detis. see Part 4, chlter I.C5-6).
A.nohe important factor. which directy affected the peasants, was the overvalution of the coca
products in the international mrket. Tbis reality caused thousands of families, escaping from drought
and famine. to install themselves in the regions of Codrabamba and Sua Cnzz. Tbis massive migra-
tion, in a short time, of the most diverse ethnic and socid groups has had a very negative impact on
the environment The inrduction of wage-eanig work and the m arization of human relations in
the most crude forms, have decomposed the traditional peasant society. It bas also canged the old
agricultural praices, which pected the ecostem, by chng8ng to single crop cultivation with the
consequent ecological damage, such as deforestation and th- depletion of the sails (Cebem 1992).
Bolivian govenumental documents distinguish betwen *Bolivian peasants", which denomination com-
prises the Aymara- and Quechua-speaking people, and the 'marginal ethnic groups" of the eastern part
of the country. These latter, also rered to as "nomadic and seminomadic indians", are the direct
descendans of peoples who inhabited the county in precolumbian times. They have their own soial
organization and a common language. They are confined to their own defn  territories. The total
population of these groups is estimated to 130,000 to 200.000 persons, belonging to 38 etnic groups.
of which 29 belong to the Bolivian Amazon basin.
The ethnic minorities may be divided into six linguistic families, a classification which also reflects
their respective culurl origin. These are:
a) Guaranl (Los Yuld del Chord-Mamord, Los Chinguano): This is the most numerous and signifl-
cant group. represeting 35% of the chnic minorities of the Bolivian lowlans.
b) Anwak (Los Moxo y Baure, Los Chant del Chaco): Ths group has traditionally been more
sedentary and created in preolonial times sophistiaed farming systems in areas prone to innnda-
14



tion. Presently it accounts for 20% of thc indigcnous population of estcmn Bolivia.
c)  Pano (Los Pacahura, Los Chacobo): A small group of a few hundred individuals Uving iL the
northast of Bolivia.
d) Takana. Constitutes 5% of the total ethnic minority population and are located to the deparments
of la Paz aui Beni.
e)  Chmco groups (La Zamuco, La Mataco): Constitute 4% of the indigincous population of the low-
1ands
f)  A dozen of small groups of uncertain onigin. The most prorninant group is "El Cliquitano", which
Is possibly thc most numerous group of the castern part of Bolivia (c. 25% of of the indigenous
populalion in the east).
Some of these ethnic groups live from agriculture (slash-and-bum) and usually have their own organi-
zation at a communal level. Other goups dedicate themselves to bunting, fishing and collecting, and
lack a centalized organization and authority. All the ethnic minorities are in principle nomadic, al-
though to a different extent. Each ethnic minority inhiabits its "territory", within which the individuals
of the group have common access to the natural resources.
B. Sodo-economIc data
A national census was conducted in Bolivia in 1992, giving a population figure of 6.3 million
(preliminary). According to the Instituto Nacional de Estadfstica, 45.2% of the population is li ing in
the Andean Departments of la Paz. Omr, and Potosi. 'ihis repesents a decrease from 52.8% in 1976,
the most recent census. The main growth area is the Department of Sana Cruz. which has expanded
from 15.4% to 21.3% between the two years of census. These figues partly reflect the migration fm
the traditional mining areas to the Ekstern Lowlands. As a national average, 57.7% arc living in urban
areas, an increase fom 41.7% in 1976.
Deite improvements during the last few years. Bolivia remains one of the poorest countries in Latin
America, with a per capita income of around US$ 700 in 1991. According to certain standards, as
adapted by Bolivian govemment agencies, approximately 55% of the urban population is living below
the poverty line. The situation is much worse in certain cities, such as El Alto and Potosi, in which
about 709% of the households are deemed to be poor. In rural areas the overall situation is worw an
in the cities.
The social sector accounted for 37% of the total current expenditures in 1991, of which education
stood for 24% units and health and social security for 11% units. The general development within the
social sector is very low. Thus, the mortality rawe is as high as 92 per thousand, nearly double Ihe
average rate for Latn Amican countries. Life expectancy is 60 yeas The adult illitacy rae is
23%. Less tan half of the population have access to safe water (47%) and only about one third to
sanitation (35%). The situation has improved substantially during the last decade, but there is still a
gap between Bolivia and te rest of the regionL (rhe above information stems from World Bank
sources).
15



PART 3: POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
L ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE
A. Branches of government
Bolivia is a republic with a democratic type of government The three brnches of governmental power
in the country, as set forth in the 1967 Constitution, are: the Prsidency; the Legislative Assembly; and
the Judiciary.
The atributions of the three bmnches of the govenment are laid out by the Consdtution. The Execu-
tive branch is dirccted by the President, who is elected for periods of four years. Like other countries
in Latin America, Bolivia has a bicameral legislature (Asamblea Legislafiva). Both the members of the
Chamber of Representafives and the Chamber of Senauos are elected cvery four years. Membess of
thc Assembly can be redected consecutively, unlike the president, who has to leave office at the
conclusion of ias term. Finally, the Judicial branch is headed by the Supreme Court and Is based In
Sucre.
B. Key ministries within the Executive Branch with respect to environment and the mining and
industrial seLtors
The structure and powers of the Executive Branch are established by supplta  law. Ihe Execu-
tive has the power to appoint and remove ministers at the national level to administer and manage the
sectoral ara and act as heads of the different sectral ministies that are created by Law. Within fte
Executive Branch, each Ministry Is responsible for planning and formulatig policies rdated to its own
sector. The prncipal ministries with direct responabilities regadi  pollution control are:
Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons: implements policy and adminision of all activities related
to the development of energy resources and exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons wich is
responsible for regulation in these areas. This Ministry bas a Nationl Directioo of Hydroabons.
Yacimlentos Petroifferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB) is an autonomous public institution affiliated
with this ministry; it is responsible for oil explration, exploitation and industrializalion at the national
and international levels.
Ministry of Exportation and Economic Competitiveness: defines policies for intenational com-
merce, foreign investment, promotion of competitiveness and local industry, commerce and tourism. (It
was previously named the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism.)
Ministry of Sodal Welfare znd Public Health: plans, directs, coordinates and implements the go-
vernment's bealth policy; drafts necessary technical regulations to protect the health of the poptlation
at large and to preserve the environment. The units within this Ministry include the General Directo-
rate of Hygiene, Occupatinal Health and Welfare (HOHW), probably the most important
organization within the social health and welfare sector, and also the National Institute of Occupational
Health (INSO).
16



Ministry of Labor: plans, directs. coordioates and implcemcns the govermnncat's workers policy.
Within Ihe Ministry there is a small unit for workers' health and safety.
Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy: implementation of policy and administration of all
activities related to the exploration and cxploitation of mineral resources.
MiNistry of Planning and Coordination: assists and advises the President, the Conncil of
Ministers and other public institutions regarding social. institutional and economic development poli-
cies. strategics, plans, programs and projccts; plans and orients, in coordination with the other rcspon-
slble ministies, economic and social activities at the national, regional and local levels.
Ministry of Public Works: participates in the planning, design, coordination and implemenra-
tion of programs and plans for urban and regional development of the country.
Ministry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture: implemcns policy and administers all activi-
ties related to the agricultural sector, including famming and livestock; protection, conservation, restori-
tion, development, promotion and control of rational use of all natusal renewable resources, including
forests, watersheds and soils.
The National Secretariat for the Environment (SENMA): a secetaiat ur  the Presi-
dent's Office with the status of a ministry, responsible for designing and directing all policies and
strategies for environmental protection nationwide. SFNMA was created by the National Environmea-
tal Law adopted in 1992.
The government strucure also includes some public institutions that work at the regional and local
levels. These levels are comprised of autonomous institutions and decentalized institutions.
Axt the regional level (depatnents) the General Law of Regional Cporatons for Development crea-
ted public institutions with regional competece to coordinatc and prmote social and economic de-
velopment thrugh the design and imple on of pogams and projects, to fulfill the national
development policies. At the same level, the county Is divided into nine administrative departments:
Pando, La Paz, Beni, Cochamba, Santa Cruz, Orm  Chuquisaca, Tsuija and Potosf. bese depart-
ments are further divided into provinces and municipalities. The capital of every department has a
mUnidp-ility, thai is administered by a mayor and a muicipal counil. Each municipal section has also
either a municpal council or a municipal board (jut) depending upon the populaton number.
Besides municipal authorities, that are elected through popular vote, each department has a central
authonty representing the executive banch, called Prefecto. Each province has a Sub-prefecto.
C. Major legal lnstruments
It may be helpful to review briefly the categories of laws and regulations in Bolivia. so that readers
can understand the designations of different legal insruments noted below.
17



1. Laws
Laws have higher legal status than regulations. A law (Iey. L.) must be approved by both houses of
Congress (Senators and Deputies). The only highcr legal instrument is the Constitution. A IgaLsdcree
(Decret Ley, D.L) is a law that did not go through the usual Congressional approval process because
it was enacted by a de facto govermment (ie., during a period when there was no democratically
elected government).
2. Regulatiocs
Regulations to implement a law or to estabBsh other govemrnental procedures are prepared by one or
more Executive agencies. Iheir title status depends on the approval process:
- Supreme decree (Decreto Supremo, D.S.): approved by the President and the entire Cabinet;
- Supreme resolution (Resolucifn Suprema): approved by the President and the responsible
Minist(s);
- Interministeial resolution (Resolucl6n Interministerial): appUes to more than one agency and
approved by all the responsible ministers; and
- Internal resolution (Resoluci6n Irna): applies to one agency and only appoved by the re-
zpponsible Minister.
Most of the legal instruments referenced below are ether laws, legal decrees, or supreme decrees.
IL ECONOMIC POLICY (see generally, Appendix IV.2)
The New Economic Policy. establisbed in 1985. meant the change in Bolivia frm a bighly protec-
tionist economic system towards a general libealization, domestically as well as in relation to the
exterior. Among otlb things, it meant the abolition of the extensive net of subsidies which had dis-
torted the economy. Another main issue was te emphasis on expots as the base for sustained eco-
nomic growth.
This policy was developed furiher through tax reforms (Reforma Tributaia, 1986) and revisions in the
Investment Law (1990) that were inuended to streamline relevant requirements and cncourage invest-
ments in technology transfer and other boosts to pnvate sector productvity and competitiveess. The
National Development Strategy (MPC 1992) stressed the importance of the private sector in economic,
labor, and management matters (and a conesponding shrinking of the state sector within these fields)
and the deepening of the reform regarding dentralization and modernization of the State.
Any alteraton in te national governments income from taxes and other financial mechanisms requires
an amendment to existing national legislation; thus, taxes, fees and subsidies may only be established
or modified through formal legislation. and not through administve procedues. Ihe same is true for
18



similar sources of income to municipal gQvernmeats. Under th Sistema Tnbulario Municipal, each
city hat an annual opportunity to amend Its assessment of taxes and ohacr fees. Minor adjustments in
intemst maes, wast collection fees, ctc. only require the approval of the City Council. However, any
more significant change, Including any change in tax structure, requires lhe approval of the naLional
Senat 
'Thee are strnger tax incentives for development in tie mining sector than in the industrial sector.
More specfic information on economic policy affecting the mining and industrial manufacturing
secUxs appears in Parts 4 and 5, respecively.
mL NATIONAL POLICIES, LAWS AND INSTlTUTIONS FOR ENVERONMENT
A. General aspeots
Government policics for environmental management devclop as pat of a larger agenda of raised con-
siousness about environmena concerns and the effeats of pollution on human heallh and econonic
productivity. As environmentalism takes hold as a poitical force, governments follow a patter that
genealy includes: adopting new environmental legislation; establishing a cental coordinating agency;
adopting regulaions for environmental Impact assessment (EIA); setting ambient cavironmental quality
standards; and adopting detailed regulations for environmental management
Bolivia is following this general pattern Ike many other countries in Latin America. it has recently
begun formulating policies regarding effective managemcent of natural resources and environn
protecticin, including aspects of pollution control. do1ivia adopted a National Environmental Law
(NEL) in 1992. It is now beginning to prepare more detailed regulations and is also developing a
Bolivian Envinmmental Action Plan (PAAB).
Prior to 1992. "environmental law" consisted of scattered elements in mary different laws and regula-
tions, which usually takc a secral approach. Inter-relations among the dient laws and the agencies
responsible fot executing them were not taken in conideration, resulting in many cases of overlapping
or unclear junisdictions. Most of these legal stuctr  predated evolvng concepts of sustainable de-
velopment to maximize long-term ecmnomic value of key natural resources and to ensure adequate
protection of public healthL Even whee elements of these general principles appeared, they have not
been implemented effectively. Most of the focus was on natural resource management; there was only
a minimal legal strucue for managing pollution or eavironmental quality more generally, with imple-
mentaton only in the area of providing potable wat and basic urban sanitation.
As noted above, thiere are inuumerble actual and potential conficts among Bolivia!s several govem-
mental and semi-governmetal insutions charged with responsibilities related to economic develop-
ment, natural resources management and environmental protectionL Many of these Initutions have
authoty direciy affecting each others' mandate and often thdr decisions overlap. In other cases,
responsibilities have not been clearly assigned legally to any institution.
19



lbcrc Is not a wcll-defined coordinating mechanism across public implementing agencies (ministries)
on atras affecting environmental protection. De facto coordination sometimes happens when issues
become contentious or become of a national intcresL The means of coordination should be the Natio-
nal Council of Economy and Planning (CONEPLAN). Unfortnately. CONEPLAN is able to resolve
contentious issues only at the policy level, whereas the majority of the overlaps or conflicts occur at
tie operational level.
These challenges wil be intensified by factors affecting environmentally and economically sustainable
development in Bolivia and many other developing countries. such as: the newness of the issues;
limited public awareness; the absence of a strong political will; coonomic problems; inadequate base-
line data and environmental monitoring capabilities; limited technical, financial and human resources;
and the fact at the Government itself owns or operates many of the activities to be regulated.
For Ehe foreseeable future, the Government's ability to implement new environmental programs will
depend heavily on a consensual approach; ruutine enforcement will not be a viable option undl the
consaints noted above have been significantly reduced Since the local public administration has
limited capacity and little prospect of building up that capacity in the short-term, nongovernmental
orgnzations have a potentially important role to play in examining environmental issues at the local
level with the direct participation of the community.
B. The National Environmental Law of 1992
The enactment of the National Environental Law of Bolivia had as an important antcedent the 1990
Ecological Histoncal Pause (Pausa Ecoldgica Historica, D.S. 22407 of January 11, 1990 and its regula-
tions D.S. 22884, of August 3. 1991). Ihis Ecological Pause was initially an effort to control timber
extraction whidch had gone unchecked for decades. Ihe objective was to stop granting new timber
contracts for five years. In this period the GOB would start land use planning efforts and would Iiti-
ate actions to regulate tbe timber industry.
Shortly after, the concept of the ecological pause was expanded as governmcat officials realized that it
was necessary to develop a national environmental agenda, that would go beyond fostry protection.
The Ecological Pause. it was cocluded, would have to deal with much more fundamental issues, like
the consolidation and definition of insttutions and processes to meet the environmental needs of the
country. As a consequence. the need for a national environmental umbreUlla law became evideuL
The National Environmental Law (NEL) became effective in June 1992 (Ley General del Medio
Ambiente, Law No. 1333 of April 27, 1992). The NEL aims to prmote sustainable development
through a comprehensive stmegy that encompasses economic and social. as well as techncl
approaches. The law encouages decentralized management, with substantial authority to be delegated
to Boliviaes nine d -patamtos. Under the law, the term "environment" Includes:
- urban and rural development and quality of life;
- biodiversity and ecosystem conservation;
- sustainable use of natural resources;
- incorporating environmental concerns into national planning (ecological, economic, social and
cultiral);
- environmental research; and
- environmental education.
20



TIhe NEL states that mG  specific requircmeats should be established through secondary laws and
regulations, and therefore many sectora laws, such as the forestry law, the mining law, the agrrian
reform law, and the biodiversity law, among others, will have to be reformed to comply with the
prindples of the NEL. Tbis process is aiready underway. Another change requird by the NEL is that
each ministry is to establish a unit in charge of evimental issues.
The NEL ceated two small new governmeot agencies to help carry out its requirements. Both agen-
des began oprating even before the law became cffective.
The Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente (SENMA) (discussed in more detail below) is respon-
sible for general environmental coordination wiin the Goverment and for managing the envimnmen-
tll aspects of the Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (SNAP). Ihe SNAP Is the only program ama
where SENMA has lead operaional responsbilitty. In all othcr anras, SENMXs duLy is Lu lelp with
coordination and implementation, and in some cases to promulgatc (or help another agency to promul-
gate) substantive regulations.
The second new agency is the Fondo Nacional para el Medio Ambiente (FONAMA) (discussed in
more detail below). Its job is to help identify and to some extent shape environmental investment
pniodties. Tbis includes disbursing envionmental funds on behalf of the Government; much of this
will be seed money to support promising public and private envirnmetal efforts. FONAMA is sup-
posed to work in close coordination with SENMA, and the Seetary of SEN1MLA serves as the head of
FONAMA's board.
The NEL was prepared through a consensual, paricipatory process. This fact, plus the emphasis on an
irectoral, interdiscipliary appoach, can potentially serve as a good basis for an evolving national
program to promote sustinable economic development his process also laid a good foundation for
development of the BoUvian Environmental Action Plan-
On the other hand, tt1 law as write and as it will be implemented must inevitably eflect constaints
in its stucture. For example, in many instances the law does not spcifically identify the goverment
authrity responsible for promulgating regulations. In other cases, the lead sectoral ministry Is given
that autbority and instructed to coordinate with SENMA, wiout any guidance on how this is to be
done; SENMA is making substantial efforts to lay the groundwk fr good coordination. Also, even
with a consensual approach to developing laws and regulations. tir application will inevitably raise
more tensions and present even hardr choices than may have appeared during the drafting stage.
C  The National Secretariat for the Environent (SENMA)
SENMA is a secretariat undier the PresidenCs Offce, created under the 1992 NEL, with the status of a
Mfinistry. It is the official national unit responsible for designing and dircing all polides and stra-
tegies for environmmental protection.
SENMA's mandate includes: formulating and overseeing application of the environmental poLicies:
introducing the environmental variables into the planning process; planning, codinating and monitor-
ing all activities related to the management of the environment; promoting sustainable development;
regulating and supervising the activities under its competence in courdination with other public natio-
21



nal and local entities; approving or rejecting the Envirommental Impact Assessmcnts of national impor-
tance, In coordination with the sectoral ministries and the Dcpartmental Secretariats of the Environ-
ment (SEDEMAs); and, promoting land usc regulation programs (ordenamiento territorial) in coordina-
tion with other public and privale institutions. regional or local; and mnanaging the National System of
Protected Areas, SENMA's only direct oprational responsibility. Tle Director of SENMA is a mem-
ber of CONE'LAN and heads the Board of FONAMA.
SENMA Includes the following techical units: the Directorate of Environmental Policy (Mma includes
the PAAB), the Directorate of Enviromental Quality Control, the Directorate of Proected Aes and
Biodiversity. the Directoa  of Legal Maners and the Directorate of integrated Resources. SENMA's
size and cxpertisc arc not adequate to carry out all potential aspects of Its extremcly broad mandate.
SENMA is helping to develop a nurnber of new enviromental laws and regulations, in cooperation
witt the otiler appmpriate institutions. l-bs work is being fianced in part through the Wodd Bank,
initially by the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) and subsequently through the prposed Environmental
Technical Assistance Project (ETAP). r'hich will run until 1995.
JGF projects include: the General Regulations to the National Environmcntal Law, the Rcgulations for
Environmental Impact Studies, the General Regulations regarding Envirnmental Quality, a new
Fortstry Law and a Law for Conservation of Biodiversity. SENMA is also assisting Congress in order
to ensure enactment of these laws.
ETAP projecs include work on a National W     Law, beginning in August 1993, as well as proposed
work in the following areas: a National Organic Law of Territorial Organization (and use); the general
regulations for enviromnental protection regarding mining and oil ddlling, as well as possibly helping
oter sectoral ministies to apply enviromental quality regulations; an analysis of the existing inta-
tional environmental protection conventions that have not been signed and confirmed by Bolivia; and a
proposal to reform the procedural system to allow class action or community action even when there Is
not a drect interest at stake. Some of hese scheduled activities may have to be modified In respose
to changing drcumstances; for example, the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons is already drafing
enviroamental regulations and the Ministry of Mines plans to do the same in the near future.
Under the ETAP, SENMA wi also caffy out other activities relaed to legal and institutional ares,
such as: training regarding environmental legislation through various seminars; the installation and
operation of a data base for the legal unit and other users (SENMA has been receiving also the assis-
tance of the IUCN and PNUMA-ORPAL of Mexico in this matter); follow-up to 'Agenda 21". the
blueprint for acton developed at the 1992 U.N. Conference on Environment and Development; and the
preparation of information bulletins.
To supplement these speiLfic tasks, SENMA is also engaged in a general analysis cf all existing legal
provisions regarding environmental protection.
22



D. The Departmental Coundils for thei Environment (CODEMAs) and their Departmeota
Secretarlats for the Environment (SEDEMAs)
Ihe NEL also established Dcpartmental Councils for the Enviomnent (CODEMAs) in each deparsa-
menro of the coniy, as organisms with the highest decision making power regarding environmental
policy withn teir jurisdictions: to approve and cnact enVironmental regulations to be applied within
their deparramevno; to supervise and control all activities of the SEDEMAs; and to pmpose lists of
candidates for Departmental Secretary of the EnviromnenL These councils have the power to approve
regulations related to tbe management of (hc envirament applicable within their territories.
The NE  also crated the Depamntal Scrctariats for dic Eavironment (SEDEMAs), decentalzed
units under SENMA. to help the CODEMAs by providing tecnical assistance and operational support.
The SEDEMAs would execute the policy of the CODEMAs and help to ensure that these polices are
consistent with national environmental policy. These secretariats are not yet opeative and there Is a
particular concern regarding the staffing of these offices due to the lack of qualified personnel in most
of the deparramentos.
To help meet the need for more personnel with environmemal training, USAID plans to send to the
United Stated fifteen teUows, to obtain master degrees in areas related to eavIronmental management
and pollution control. Each depanamento will pmvide at least one fellow. The fellows will also in-
clude at least two or three persons who would specialize in mining and environmenL
E. National Environmental Fund (FONAMA)
Financing of envimnmental projects is the direct responsibility of FONAMA (the National Envirn-
ment Fund). a public institution created by the NEL of 1992.
FONAMA has the role of organizing al the public investment in conservation, sustainable develop-
ment and environmental protection. To support and expand the operations, FONAMA has thwee func-
tions: technical, administrative and fund-raising Ihe laa   includes raising and manging funds, in-
cluding design and negoiaton of debt swaps. FONAMA has a s-teerng committee formed by:
SENMA represented by its National Secretary. three representatives of the executive branch, three
Lepresentatives from CODEMAs, and one representative of the local NGOrs.
FONAMA is an umbrella fund composed of funds, each with its different characistics and objec-
tives, as determined by the source and purpose of the funds obtained. In order to comaply with the
requirements of every donor regarding management and use of specific funds, FONAMA has separate
Technical Committees to oversee management of funds from different sources; each Technical Com-
nitmee is organized accoding to the requirements of the corrspondig donor organization.
The Technical Coordination Unit (MCU) of FONAMA is responsible for incorporating all the projects
ftat are received into a project portfolio, whidh if appoved is integrated into the national project
portfolio under the responsibility of MPC. Once this task is completed the TCU organizes the porfolio
into a national environmental public investment progam. These activities are intended to help meet the
priorities to be set thrugh the Bolivian Environmental Action Plan.
23



F. The Bolivian Environmental Actiou Plan (PAAB)
In 1991. the GOB and the interational aid agencies discussed for the first time the need to prepare a
PAAB. The PAAB is a project under the rcsponsibility of the Directorate of Environmental PoUcy of
SENMA. The purosc of this plan was to design policies and to idenfify priorities for environmental
prtcon. In 1992 SENMA, with the financial assistne of the USAID tlrugh the PL-480 program
and the World Resour  Insttute, sarted to develop the PAAB.
Tne general objecives of the PAAB arz: Establishing a normadve and Institutional framework that
makes possible to incorporate environvental issues into the national and regional development poll-
cies; formulating systemaically naional and regional envimental policies. that guide the implemen-
tation of specific projects and activities by SENMA, FONAMA, MPC, and the other sectoral institu-
tons; promoting the study an analysis of mattes relted to enviromental prteion, by rsearch and
educational canters, community groups and NG(ls, at the national and regional level; and, exposing to
the public knowledge the actvities and accomplishments of the PAAB, thorough the mass media,
nationally, regionally and intemationally.
The process of developing and implementing the PAAB involves diagnosis. discussion and conflict
resolution with all possible interested public and prvate paries. The PAAB is intended to estabUsh
and direct a permanent process. The unit within SENMA iD charge of the PAAB wiU help to define
and implement PAAB polices and priorties on an ongoing basis.
Bolivia held a National Workdshop for Environmental Planning in August 1992 to draw together pro-
posals for a national environmental policy. The PAAB stiU needs to contain more opeonatinal details
and other refinements before it can be implemented effectively.
G. Laboratory capadty and monitoring capabiliUes
The development of regulatory mechanisms has to be suppd by anytical competce and capacty
in order to determine chemical and physical parametes. Such services are needed both to determine
the baseline conditions and to measure effluents causing clenicall/pysical contamination.   e are
many laboratories in Bolivia (private, state-owned and at universities). which are rather we equippod
with the necessary facilities, i.e. sample preparation, instruments for anaysis. and computerized calcu-
lation/ presentation of results (see Appendix IVA). However, there is a general lack of resources for
maintenance and service. Highly qualified personnel are also scarce. The consequence of this is that
the available analytical inrstucture is poorly utized and often badly maintained. The reason for tbis
is the poor market for seliag analytical services and the lack of resources for researdL
Quality assurance appears low. at least in those laboratories dealing widt chemical contamination of
natural systems, and there is no established routine for international intercalibration studics. This is a
serious deficiency, as quality control of analytical data is of fundamental importance for technical,
scientific, as well as legal considerations.
Monitonng activities and capabilities within the envimnmental sector in Boivia, are very restricd
The main activities are connected with communal waste water treatment plants and internal process
contol within certain well n inldustuies. Systematc monitoring by authrties is virtaly lacking and
regional surveys are only camed out within international cooperation projects. The 'Troyecto Especial
24



del Lago Titicaca (PELT)", with support rom the European Community, is the only major project of
this latter kind. Of the few rsm=arch projects addressing particular envionmental problems related to
industrial activities, only the Lidema study regarding alluvial gold mining at the border with Brazil
(LIEMA 1992) comprises more ambitious research and monitoring (spread of mercury).
IV. ENVItONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
The National Environmental Law (articles 24-28) outlines a fraework for envixonmental impact
assessment (EIA). SENMA Is responsible for preparing Environmental Impact Statemenb (EIS) based
on ELAs for projects requirng review that are national in scope. For projects that are not national In
scope, the responsibity lies with the sppropriatc sectoral. regional or local authority. In these cases,
the EIS is to be formally issued by the mpprpripate SEDEMA. subject to rafication by SENMA.
SENMA and the SEDEMAS are rsponsible for monitoring cmis process and implementation of the
EIS recommendations.
SENMA is now preparing an initial regulation on EIAl Ther is a great need to huild the capability to
carry out EIA work. both within and outside of government.
V. USE OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES
A. Planning and development In general
Planning in general is done at three diffaernt levels. Ihe Naional level is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Planning, the sectoral level is the reponsibility of other ministries and oter public institu-
utons, and the local level is the responsibility of the municipalities. Additional planning responsibilities
lie with Ic Regional Corpomtions for Development (RDC), public insttutions with departmental
competence to coordinate and promote social and economic development
Ihe folowintg subsections will examine aspects of planning for land use and natural resource manage-
ment planning that apply most directly to mining and manufacStuing industry However, it is important
to bear in mind that these issues are linked to much broader planning issues as they relate to oher
sectors, especially agriculture, forestry development, and conservation of biodiversity, as well as con-
flicts between urban and rural areas.
The GOB is currently drafting several laws that will affect resource planning and management: Na-
tional Water Law; Foestry Law; and Law for Conservation of Biodiversity. Additionally, SENMA
plans next year to begin woring with the Congress and others on the National Organic Law of Terri-
torial Organization (land use), mandated by the NEL of 1992. (These various laws are discussed in
more detail in Appendix IV3.)
Bolivia does not have an effective policy or legal mechanism for seting priorities and addressing
conflicts among competing uses of land and natural resources. Unformnately, the carrent difts of the
abovementioned laws are unlikely to prove adequate in this respecL Perhaps it wil be possible to
25



tacwle some of these Issues thwgh the National Organic Law of Terrtorial Organization. It is not yet
dcear what concepts this law would embrace, but it is likely to include at least some aspects of urban
and rural planning. Flexibility in the kamework of this law and its implementing regulations will be
necesary to adapt to the national development process as it evolves.
B. Urban development
Regarding the use of land for urban development there are three institutions with similar responsibili-
ties: the municipalities. te Ministry of Urban Affairs and the Ministry of Public HealUL
Municipalities have planning responsibilities at the local level. Ihe Municipal Code, article 9 liL 1.
gives to municipalittes the competence to elaborate, approve and execute urban development plans at
the local level. Municipalities traditionally have concenuated their efforts in the urban areas, lacking
the capacity to plan for rural areas.
Article 9. lit. 17 of the same code, assigns municipalities the duty to preserve the environment, control
pollution and maintain the ecological equlibrium. in coordination with the Minisny of Public Health
and the Ministry of Agriculture.
At the urban areas, the municipalities should also provide all necessary public senrices and administer
them. i.c. potable water, sewerage systems, solid waste disposal, etc. Ihis gives implicitly the munici-
palities competence to overse all aspects of pollution control.
The Ministry of Urban Affairs (MUA) is the highest sctoa authority with competence to define
policies for urban development and enact generally enforceable regulations for the sector. It mainly a
regulatry agency and not an implemening agency. 1Te MUA has prepared and enacted regulation
rlated to the construction of potable water and sewerage systems as well as sanitary facilities in
buildings.
The Ministry of Public Health, under the Health Code of 1978. has some responsibillties regarding
environmental protection and pollution control, although urban planning in geneal at the local level is
a duty of the municipalities.
The Ministry of Publc Health has dirc responshility to control that health standards are met in all
sorts of constructions and buildings, including aspects like the following ( Health Code, articles 46-
52): all new urban development, the expansion of existing towns and cities and the construction of
new neighborhoods; and, the health standards for consuction and functioning of thters, cinemas,
sports facilities, hotels, restaurants, tansporLation facilities (airports, harbors, bus stations). It is also
21n terms of recoiling urban and rural development, one necessary step is a comprehensive
review and integration of all laws and regulations conceming the planning and organization of
rural and urban areas, regarding: land use; the administration of public services (water, sewerage,
and solid wast); the environmental and health control in the urban areas; the authorization for
partition of parcels and lots; building of public and community inhfastcwme and services; all new
urban development (neighborhoods), the expansion of existing towns and cities and the constuc-
tion of houses, office and apartment buildings and public works (roads); etc.
26



allowed to inspect at any time houses, ofrice and apanment buildings, etc., to control health and safety
standards.
Cr Rural development
National planning and management regarding rural land use is almost nonexistent, both at the policy
and operaional level. Social structures in Bolivia. especially of many indigenous peoles. is closely
tied to the land. This makes land reform parficularly difficult. even where some political will exists.
Use of rural land prmarily responds to the individual decisions of the owners or to the always increa-
sing demographic premsure.
At the sectoral level, serious efforts to establish a patern of soil utilization have been Implemented
without tangible results. The Law of Agaraian Reform recognizes a system of land use capability
classification (articles 97-100) but a national mapping to actually classify the soil under those para-
meters has not been performed. The oaly other signifcant refcrence in the same law, relates to the
official recognition of rural towns and communities. with the purpose of including them in the plan-
ning process to provide them with basic services and other necessities for development (article 101-
113).
D. Water resource management
All hydraulic resources are property of the State. TIe concept of hydraulic resources includes surface
and undeground waters. The rivers and all river beds are public property (Article 136 of the Constitu-
tion) and also the lakes and lagoons located in public property.
There are some regulations dated 1906 for use of waters that were enacted thugh decree. These
regulations provide a legal framework for surface and grund water allocation and use, and also in-
clude provisions for drainage systems usage and the right of access on public or private property to
use hydraulic resources. However, there is no general law or set of regulations for water management
in Bolivia.
Under the Organic Law of Municipalities of 1985. municipalities have to pmect all natrl resources
(including water). In order to do this, municipalities are able to enact ordinances that are enforceable
only within thir territories.
Bolivian law also allows the creation of regional institutions for management of river basins. SEARPI
(Servicio de Encauzamiento de Aguas y regularizacifn del Rfo Piraf in Santa Cruz) was created in
1983 and Is based in Santa Cruz. This institution is a public autonomous organism with competence to
implement all necessary actions to regulate the Piraf river, including coordination and planning of
social and economic development within the basin, in order to preserve and protea it. It is not clear
how the powers of this kind of institution are coordinated with te duties and powers of other sectoral
institutions, but it seems a very interesting approach to management of river basins beause it gives
one entity the power to plan and implement holistically; this could be considered as a possible model
for other water bodies in Bolivia.
Several drafts of a national water law were prepared during the last decade, but none of them had
27



enough political support to be enacted. Aa noted above. SENMA plans to help the GOB develop a
genera wale law, with assistance from the World Bank proposed ETAP prjecL It wfll be impont
during this process to review comprehensively all existing regulations and to define clearly the compe-
tence of each relevant institution.' Improved institutional rsources will be a prerequisite to better
water management, including water quality monitoring and related data management capabilites.
E. Potable water and sanitation
This subsection will briefly discuss potable waer and sanitation. with an cmphasis on institutional
responsibilities. The following section on environmental quality will discuss water quality and manage-
meat of solid and hazardous wastes in more detail.
1. National institutions
Both the Ministry of Public Health and the Ministry of Urban Affairs have jurisdiction over potable
water and sanitation.
In 1978, the Code of Health (D1. No. 15629 of 1978, Articles 32-38) gave the Ministry of Public
Health the duty to regulate, oversee and control the quality of aU water used for human consumption.
ibis included authority to determine the national policy for sanitation of all bodies of water and estab-
lish measuements to control all solid and liquid industrial discharges. The Code also gave the
Ministry of Health authority to determine national policy on solid waste management and to administer
and operate programs to dispose of solid waste (Articles 39-42).
In 1985, The Ministry of Urban Affairs enacted Regulations for Disposal of Industrial Waste into
Bodies of Water. Ministerial Resolution No. Ol(85. These reguations gave competee to the
Ministry of Urban Affairs, the Ministry of Public Health, the local lnstimtons and the decenraized
organsms of the ministries.
Then in 1991, a supreme decree (the highest category of regulationj designated Xt Ministry of Urban
Affairs as the institution with national competence in basic sanitation, inluding the task to reorganize
the administaive sector to control these matters. (DS. 22964f1991). D.S. 22964 defines the sanitary
sector to compr potable water and sewerage systems, effluents and discharges, management of solid
waste and environmeal poUution control. All functions given in previous regulations to the Ministry
of Public Health, plus the personnel and equipment of its Directorate of Environmental Sanitation,
were legally transferred to the National Dretora  of Basic Sanitation of the Ministry of Urban
Affairs (DINABSA).
The Ministry of Urban Affairs. through its National Directorate of Basic Sanitsaion (DINABSA), has
national jurisdiction and competence to organe the national system of basic sanitation (potable water
and sewerage). ibis indludes: plannmng at the national sectoral level and coordintng with all pertinent
national and intnational organisms; regulating the design of water and sewerage projects; priotzing
3SENMA should consider organizing an Executive Committee for the Protection of Hydraulic
Resources to promote this process.
28



all plans and projects of basic sanitation tp be implemented by any public or private entity with the
objectivc of including them into the National System of Investment; organizing all national pm-invest-
ment programs; coordinating that regional programs comply witti the national planoing; supervising the
tariff policy and assisting all institutions involved with water projects (e.g.. Departmental Directortes
of the RDCs, local water enterpises, municipalities, cooperatives, committees, juntas and NGOs).
The legal status of the two Ministries' responsibilities reginhing potable water and sanitation is Still not
enfirely clear.4 However, as a practical matte, the Ministry of Public Heallh teids to be more involved
with operation  tsks, such as inspecing sanitary cobdtions in regulated facilities, whereas
DINABSA in the Ministry of Urban Affairs plays mainly a normative and planning role. DINABSA is
not implemeating or exccuting any infrustructure projects, although it is assisting in the design phase
of projects and also in allocating resources. The Social Investment Fund (FIS) would be financing
projects through hiring of construction companies. There will also be one mlllion USS available for
pre-feasibiliuy (pre-inversi6n) studics tO die provided by the World Bank
2. Municipal institutions
The Ministry of Urban Affairs enacted the General Regulations for the Management of Solid Waste,
D.S. 14368 of 1977. These regulations confirm the competence of municipalities to administer public
services such as solid waste management and authorize municipalities to delegate the adminismufion of
those scrvices.
Under the Organic law of Municipalities of 1985. the municipalities have to offcr scrvices such as
Potable water supply and sewerage system. However. muncipaLlties under te Organic Law of Munici-
palities do not have the competence to regulate potable water quality.
Municipalities do have specific authority to regulate specfic aspecs of solid wast managemenL
D.S. 22964 authoized the creation of local organisms. which could be eithr public or private, to
administer and provide basic sanitary services. Potble water services are currently administered in
almost all cases by water entprises, whiich have a direct participation of the municipaity within their
board of directors. In some cases, like in Santa Cruz, the community has a direct participation in the
administration of SAGUAPAC, the water company.
3. Departmental instittions
D.S. 22964 dissolved the National Water and Sewerage Corporation and assigned its duties to the
Regional Development Corportions (RDCs). Each RDC has a Directte of Sanitation that is respon-
sible for waler quality and sanitation in areas where local govemments lack authority or capability.
Thus. the RDCs work with national and local institutions concerning planning and technical assistance
for water quality and sanitation, usually concernig inteactions between urban and rural areas or
plannig for new development in rurl areas nr existing citeL
4bis is because the 1978 Health Code is a law (Decreto Ley), whereas the 1991 document
giving authority to the Ministry of Urban Affairs is a regulation (Decretro Supremo). Laws have
higher legal status than regulations. as explained in Part I above.
29



VL ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
A. General aspects
Most of the relvdy few lega requircments concraing pollution control and othe aspects of cn-
vromental quality havc nevcr bocn implemented, aside from the provision of potable water and
limited sanitation effonts in some urban areas. The National Environmental Law of 1992 assigns to
SENMA the responsibility to estabUsh general standards for environmental quality. However, the NEL
did not address now this authority affects the Status of preexisting legal requirements and institutional
authorities.
SENMA is beginning work on a Regulation on Environmental Quality that will provide a general
framework for activities in this area. Its main purpose will probably be to introduce key concepts, such
as seling goals for environmental quality and promoting polution prevention, and to establish basic
approaches to achieve these goals, in coordination with the appropriate institutions. Some of the sug-
gestions for Recommended Priorities that appear in Part 6 may help with SENMA's work on this new
regulation.
B. WIater quality
As discussed above. in Part 3, dcapter V-D. national, local and regional institutions have responsibility
for different aspects of potable watr. In practice. implementation of water quality requirements occurs
pixmarily through the work of the urban watcr enterprses. They normally apply the recommended
potable water standards of the World Health Organizaion. The degree and efficacy of implementation
-anes widely among the different municipalities; the cities of Santa Cuz, Taija and Cocabamba treat
some of their domestic and inlustrial waste waters. A centrlized national system of vwat quaity
monitonng has not been implemented, although an informal system called Program for Quality Control
and Water Monitoing (Pfograma de Conrol de Calidad y Vigllancia del Agua), has been operatng for
several years, with some participation from the private sector.
The Regulation for Disposal of Industrial Waste into Bodies of Water. enacted by the Ministry of
Urban Affairs in 1985. has never been implemented. The regulation sets the following priorities for
water use: humna consumption, consevation of biodiversity, recreation, irrigation. industrial use, and
waste discharge. Under these provisions a body of water could be destined to more than one tye of
use and therefore bodies of water are to be classified based upon their ictended use in 5 categories.
The Regulation eontains a table that provides the physico-cbemical and biological parameters to classi-
fy bodies of watcr in any of the categories mentioned and all industries (including the mining indus-
tries) have to treat their effluents. All industries are supposed to register their effluents and file a
declaration (certficado de conczrmiento) detailng the expected effluents and the proposed ureatmenL
Fillng should be done prior to registration of discharges with the Ministry of Exportation and Econo-
mic Competitiveness (MECE) or the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy (MMM. Registrion of all
discharges should have been done within a specific peiod of time: two years for all existng indus-
tries. one year for industries being installed, and three months for all new industries. Based on the
declaration, the competent organism (although it does not say which one, it is safe to believe that it
refers either to the MUA or the RDC) should issue an authorization for discharges that is an indispens-
30



able rnqisite for industries to obtain Olx operation pemit from thc municipalIties or prefecturas. or
other competent organisms, such as the war entcrprises.
This Regulaton soems to be drawn from cxamplcs in other countries, with litale consideration of
priorities or dirmstances in Bolivia. In many respects the approaches mandated in this Regulation
may not be best suited to the realides of envimnmental management in Bolivia. SENMA considers
whether and how to modify the requirements of this Regulation (or promote implementation of useful
aspects) as part of its work to prepare the new Regulation un Environmental Quality.
C. Solid waste management
Bolivian law generally treats solid waste management as an aspect of preventing contaminaion of
soils (e.g., the Code of Health, the Organic Law of MunicipallUes, the law regarding agrochemicals).
Implementation of the existing national and local requirements is very deficienL Some municipalities
or urban water and sanitation cntcrpriscs usc public services or contractors to collect garbage and
deposit it in local dumps. There are apparently no sanitary landfills and there is no segregation of
different types of waste at the dumpsitcs.
Te Ministry of Urban Affairs is conducting a study in several cities to determine how to improve
waste management and whether to privatize thes services.
D. Hazardous waste managenent
Tee are no national requirements for hazardous waste management other than the 1985 Regulation
on Disposal of Industrial Waste into Bodies of Wat. which has never been enforced. Bolivia has
signed the Basel Convention of Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wast, but the Bolivian
Congress has not yet ratified the Convention. In generAl. ther are no legal requirements for hazardous
waste management at the local level. Two notable exceptions ae the operaion of the industial esate
in Santa Cruz, and the restrictions on discharges of tannely effluents In central Cochabamba- Both of
these examples are discussed in Part 5 below.
E. Pestiddes
MACA under the Law of Animal and Vegetation Control (Ley de Control Fitosanataio) is the institu-
tion in charge of authoring the importation and use of pesticides and other substances as well as
monitoring and preventing soil pollution due to iadequate or illegal use of pesticides.
Regarding control of use of pesticides, MACA is not canying out any activities and even a committee
(MACA. SENMA. APIA and MPH) that was formed last year to review the law and the procedrs
has been completely inopertive since the fist meeting.
31



F. Air polluton
The Health Code of 1978 (D1. 15629) gave the MinistLy of Public Health the duty to oranze,
through irgional and local organisms, the elimination and control of air pollution. 'he Ministry never
issued regulations and these provisions have not been implemented. Ihe NEL of 1992 gives SENMA
authority to regulate in ftis area, and the upcoming Regulation on Environmental Quality will pro-
bably include some reference to air pollution.
The GOB rently established a Multisectoral Technical Commission to carry out a pilot project to
control air pollution in urban areas. pursuant to a D.S. 23347 of December of 1992. This pilot activity
is to be the first step In establishing a National Program for Air Pollution Control- The commssion
includes membership from SENMA, MPH, MEH. MnCPA, MUA. MECE, MEC. MACA and the
National Police. Each participating institution has issigwed individual responsibilities for helping to
carry out this project rhe project Is still being designed. with implementation scheduled to start later
in 1993. SENMA is already conducting some monitoring, with the assistance of the Mexican govern-
mcnL
G. Selecting regulatory instruments for environmental management
Regtlators in both industrialized and developing countries have shown a strong preference for quanti-
ty-based approaches (QBA) that require pollutecrs to reduce the amount of pollution so that total con-
tamination is restricted to a targeted ambient limiL IThis preference Is likely to continue, despite the
theoretical superiority of ptice-based approaches (PBA) that rely on market forces to help allocate
environmental management responsibilities more efficacitly. (See Appendix I for a more detailed
discussion of these issues.)
There appear to be sound reasons why QBA has evolved as the major regulatory system for pollution
management However, regulatcxy systems should use a mix of QBA and PBA instruments, with PBA
serving as an important omplement, especially to help reduce the c06ts of regulation and to raise
revenues.
There are no ready formulas for selecting the best mix of regulatory instrtments. Instead, regulators
must be aware of the comparative advantages and disadvantages of the various QBA and PBA instru-
ments and combine them as seems most approprate in a particular situation. Successful application of
any of these instruments calls for carefl monitoring and adjustment of the regulatory program as
experience and institutional capabilities incruse.
Bolivia is at the earliest stage of selecting regulatory insments for environmental managemenL TMhe
initial work on enviromental quality regulations is focusing on quantity-based approaches, with draft
requirements in areas such as waste management and air quality.
The Government will also need to explore possible price-based approaches - for example, wheher
and how to establish a basic pollution charge that would generate revenues to help fund new envirn-
mental management efforts and perhaps encourage reduced pollutio. A complicating factor in Bolivia
is that introducing any change in the national government's income from axes and other financial
mechanisms requires an amendment to existing national legislation, as noted in Part II above on eco-
nomic policy.
32



H. Human resourcs
iTe human resource base, available in BoUvia, and capable of taking pant in environmcntal work
appes to be rlatively boad. A detailed assessment of the number of persons available with different
quafcaions within different public or prvate bodies has rXt been underaken as a part of this Sec-
tar  Assessment However, a prelminary estimate of the iumber of people in Bolivia having expe-
rience in thre fields of wat resourc management or who have had at least some experience of envi-
ronmental management in geneal, arives at a figue of aound one tiousand (professionals and tech-
viclans). Only the public entepriscs responsible for water and sanitation in the various departments of
the cottny account for a total staff of 1.800. among which 9% are professionals and almost 20%
techicians. Highly competent persons wre also found for example in the 14 chcmical-analytical labora-
tories assessed (see Appedix IVA), In several of the scientific-technical university institutions in
Bolivia, as weCl as In the consulting firms and In some private or stale enterxises (e.g. the CESICA of
the State Oil Company. YPFB).
Within the mining sector, those with a direct experience of environmental questions may be estimated
at around one hundred persons.
These preliminary estimates indicate: a) that there exists a sound and sold base of human resources to
build upon for the future, and b) that tee Is a need to broaden the existing resource base and to
further develop its competence Mmugh an ambitious education and training program. covenng various
categories of personnel as well as the diverse needs for the futme
Within the nongoveumental community, a large number of organizations (NGOs) are active in
addressing the needs of the population in generaaL Even if the social issues dominate, an appreciable
number of groups are active within the environmental sector. Sometimes such NGOs serve as coordi-
nators for the execution of multidisciplinary sudies, with finncin from abroad and including scien-
tists fom Bolivian universities and state organizatons. A good example of such a program Is the
pioneer work carried out unde the coordination of LIEMA regarding the envirnmental situation in
the gold exploitation areas of    nmost Bolivia (see Pawt 4. chapter mhF).
VIYL OCCUPAIIONAL EFALTH AND SAFETY
Bolivia has a fairly elaborate legal and institutional structue for pcotecting the health and safety of
workers. However, awareness of and compliance with these safeguards vares widely.
A. Legislation of Occupadonal Health
Mmhe area of occupational health Is govrened by various laws and regulations:
- The General Labor Law of 1942 and refonns;
- General regulaions to the General Labor Law, D. NoQ 224 of 23 of August, 1943;
- Regulations of Hygiene and Industrial Safety. D.S. No. 1694 of July 29 of 1949;
- Ihe General Law of Hygiene, Occupational Safety and Welfare, DL 16998 of 1979;
33



- Procedura Code of Labor. D.L. 16896 of 25 of July of 1979;
- Regulations of eform of the Social Security System, D.S. of June 1987; and.
- Regulations of the Boivian Institute of Social Security.
Articles 67-72 contain general pinciples regarding this matter. As a genw statement employers are
obliged to scumr te life and health of histher employees. To Utis end the employer must take al
measmes to prevent nd minimie pmofessional accidents and diseases. by means of providing workers
with a suitable place of work, adequate ventilation systems, sanitary Installations, and In geral by
complying with all existing regulations.
Every Industrial or commercial facility that has more than 20 employees must have inl:rnal regulations
addressing health and workers' safety that are legally approved by the Ministry of Labor. These facili-
ties must also have fee medical services and a pharmaceutical supply availabic for wodrers -when
more thn SO- and have to comply with the minmum regulations estabUshed by the Miaistry of Public
Health. If an Industry Is not able to support these services, the Ministry can compel the Industry to
join in a consortium of industries to provide a cooperative service.
Mhe Code of Labor. articles 79 to 92. establishes all the general provisions regarding professional
risks. Ihese provisions include the obligation of the employer to compensate his/her employees in case
of professional ilness or accidents. regardless of the existence of negligence in part of the employee
(artcle 79) and to compensate the corresponding familes is case of death
To complement the previously mentioned regulations, there is a General Law of Hygiene,
Occupatonal Health and Welfare of 1979. Ihis law addresses the genemal rules to control and
monitor occupational health issues. including the duties of employers and workrs, employment of
women and minors, and the institutional frameworlkis law also regulates conditions at the place of
work (infrastructue, windows, escalators, elevatos, lighting, ventilation, sanitary facilities, roads and
exits, electric equipment); flire prevention measurements (bandling of flammable and explosive sub-
stances). protection against machinery and general handling of tools, steam machinery, ovens and
dryers, tanspoaon of matials and  ansportation equipment, transortation and handfing of danger-
ous. toxic or radioactive substances, usage of safety equipment (gloves, uniforms, helmets. etc.). and
finally general maintenance.
Me Reguladons of Hygiene and Industrial Safety, DS. No. 1694 of July 29 of 1949 were enacted
before the Law mentioned in the preceleat paragraph and created the National Directorte of Hygiene
and Industrial Safety now the General Directomate of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Wel:are and t
seems that is still applicable because in general it does not contradict the laws enacted subsequently.
B. Institutlonal framework for Occupational Health
The General Law of Hygiene, Occupational He;Jth and Welfare of 1979 establishes the institutional
framework for reuating, controlling and monitu.g occupational health Issues. The main instiutions
or organisms involved are:
- The Nationa Councl of Hygiene. Occupational Health and Welfare;
- The General Directorate of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare at the Ministry of
Labor, and
- The National Insfitute of Occupational Health (INSO).
34



Te National Council of Hygicne. Occuptional Health and Welfare is formed by the Minister of
labor. the Ministry of Public Health. the Miaistry of Mining. lhe National Dirco of Hygiene. Occu-
pational Health and Wdfar, the Executive Dirctor of the Bolivian Instiut of Social Secuity, the
National Director of the National Instute of Occupational Health (INSO). a representative of the
workers union (Central Obrera Boliviana) and a   resentative of the Confederaton of Privatc Enter-
prises. The Councl has the power to produce aD policy in this area and also is in crge of institu-
tional coordination. It seems that the Council has not been able to fulfill these objectives. In fact
during the last four years the Council did not meet and only recently It has started meetng againL
The Gcnera] Dirzct   of Hygicnc, Occupational Health and Welfare at the Mnislry of Labor
(1IOHW), is the operative unit in charge of supervising compliance with the Gcneral Law of Hygicne.
Occupational Health and Welfare of 1979. liis institution has Occupational Health Inspetors. In
chare of receiving and processing complaints and repots regarding professional accidents or illness.
Iibs unit is located in La Paz and only has six inspectors to ake care of aWl reports and complaints in
the country. The General Dirtorate does not have units in other departments or cities of the country.
When a complaint or a rmport is received in other cities, the local labor inspectors handle it and only
when there is a disagreement between the inspector and the parties involved (employcr or cmployee), a
occupational health inspector from La Paz would then handle the matr
Regarding monitoring and evaluation, all Industries have to fiL in a questionnaime (DA2) every three
months and send it to the GDHOHW. Iibs questlonnaire contains information regarding all accidents
and illness occurred in the industry in the last trimester. It seems that the information collected has not
been used to produce scientific data regarding most common accidents and illness and possible ways
to prevent them. Furtemore, because of the lack of persnel. the GDHOHW limits itself to inspect
industries that have been identified as of high risk level and therefore an important percentage of
industes Is never visited unless an accident or illness is reported
All individual accidents and illness have to be reported by the employers, sending to the GDHOHW a
questionnaire DAI. also available at the National Health Fund- Information gathered suggests that
almost 40% of all accidents and illness are nevcr reported beause employers and employees reach
direct agreements. Only when direct agreements are not reached do employers file reports or em-
ployees file complaints. In the case that either the employer or the employee or both disagree with the
decision reached by the occupational health inspector, the case is sent to courL riLtain the judical
system the cases regarding labor issues are decided by the Disuia Labor Courts and then on appeal by
the National Court of Labor. Only by certiorari (casaci6n) are cases revised by the Supreme Court of
Bolivia. If the court niles that an employer failed to comply with the existing regulations, a fine could
be established, manging hom 1.000 to 10.000 bolivianos (US$ 250 to 2,500) based upon the serious-
ness of the case.
All idustries must organize committees (comitds mixtos) to oversee that all occupational health and
safety regulations are obeyed. These committees are formed by an equal number of representatives of
tne employer and fte employees. Apparently these committees are very infrequently organized
Industries also must have a department of hygiene, industrial safety and welfare depending upon the
ratio of accidents and illness they had and also the number of workers It is not clear if this is maida-
tory because there are no clear regulations regarding who makes the final decision to make an industry
ceate such a deparcmenL
35



Mhe General Direcroate is preparing drafls of various regulations: Health and Safety for Construction
Workers; Medical Services to the Provided by Companies; and Reguiatioas to Use Asbestos. hee is
no pmvisions regarding health standards for the mining industry and the Ministry is not currently
working is this area
The National Institue of Occupational Health (INSO) is a national Institution that mainly does re-
search and evaluation activitis and traininp. it has 50 peple worling there and It has four depart-
ments. Hygiene and Industrial Health. Labor Medicine. Planning. and Administiation and Services.
VIL FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Most intenational organizations are providing some support to environmental protection and manage-
ment in Bolivia. although direct assistance to control environmental pollution is much more limited.
The Woldd Bank trugh the  rA? project would be financing the most important project in this area,
that would include stuengthening of SENMA and FONAMA. prepamtion of laws and regulations and
environmental education. A consideable part of the project would deal with the implementation of the
regulation for environmental quality.
The Inteamerican Development Bank currently does not have an eavironmental project to assist the
GOB. but it has a Project for Urban Development and Sanitation (PRODULSA) that includes potable
water and sewerage systems and strengtening of municpalities. The same is appUcable to USAID and
the GIZ that harve conceantmed their effort in urban sanitation.
On the other hand, the Office of Cooperation of the Netherlands. would finance through FONAMA
(US$ 3.000.000) and LDiDEMA (US$ 500,000) smali projects, some of them rdated to pollution,
monitoring and training.
36



PART 4: ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING SECTOR
L INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE
A. Hlstorical perspecdve
Since Colonial times, mineral exploitation has been a major occupation in Bolivia. For most of tie
period since then, mining has constituted the main source of foreign currency, has contributed substan-
tially to fiscal income and has played an important rolc in politics. After being focused for several
centuies on the production of silver, mining during the latter part of the 19th century gradually shifted
into the exploitation of tin. The peak in tin production occurred in 1929, but the commodity remained
of prime importance right up to the collapse of the world tin market in 1985. As a consequence of this
latter event, in combination with other adverse factors. the dominant mining company, the state-owned
COMIBOL, has been forced to close many mines and has reduced its worlforce from about 28,000
employees in 1985 to about 6,000 employees today.
Since the 1970's, the exploitaton of ores containing zinc, lead and silver has emerged as the main hard
rock mining activity. In fact, since 1985 severl tin mines have also been converted to producing these
metals. This was possible due to the character of the most common ore deposits in the country, name-
ly polymetallic veins, containing tin, zinc, lead, silver, etc. in co-existence, or occurring in different
parts of the same deposiL
Simultaneously, gold has arisen as a main commodity through the extensive exploitation of alluvial
deposits in the foothills of the norteasten Andes and in  e Amazon basin and through the discovery
of a major deposit of disseminated gold in an intusive rock of the Altiplano. The previously relatively
important mining for antimony and wolfram has expenenced serious market difficulties during the last
decade, resulting in he closure of most mines.
Mineral production in Bolivia declined from a peak of US$ 756 million in gross metal value in 1980
to a low of USS 139 million in 1986. Since then a recovery has occurred to US$ 367 million in 1991.
Of this, 27% stems from state mines (COMIBOL), 41% from private mines, and 32% frm small scale
and artisanal operations. The 1991 production value in fact represens a production volume which is
higher than that of 1980 but at average prices which are only 40% of those prevailing in 1980
(Gustavson 1992). In spite of all problems. indluding the present low metal quotations on the world
market, the export of the mining sector officially amounts to more than 40% of the nation's total
export value (1991).
B. Restructuring of the national Corporacldn Minera de Bolivia
Ihe Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOL) was formed in 1952 by the nationalization of all
major private mines, these latter belonging to the three groups of Patfo, Aramayo and Hochschild,
respectively. ibis new company soon became a major power center in the Republic with widespread
social commitments and political functions. At the same time the technical development and manage-
ment was seriously neglected. As a consequence of this mis-management, worsened by falling metal
37



prices. COMIBOL went into technical bazkruptcy in 1985. All mines were closed, temporarily or
permanently, and a far-reaching program for restnucturing was initiated with the support of the World
Bank. This has meant a decrease in COMIBOL's share of the total national production from 63% in
1980 to 27% in 1991.
To help solve its economic, technical and management problems, COMIBOL is beginning to Invite
private participation In the management and opeiation of its mines through arrangements such as joint
ventures and leases. Mines that are no longer economically productive will be closed. Ihis process has
recently gained momentum and the plans are to offer successively, during a two-year period, al re-
maining operations for private participation. At the same time, the present COMIBOL wiD be replaced
by a aew holding company, which wiDl administer the state's properties. The technical and managerial
responsibilities will be left with the private partner.
As components of the World Bank support to this restructuring process, there will be environmental
audits of the main COMEBOL properties, as well as legal studies regarding environmental responsibili-
ties and liabilibies to help define state liabilities regarding previous envirommental impacts and future
obligations of the state and the new operators. The environmental questions to be addressed are similar
to those raised by privatization of state enterprises, even though in Bolivia, the state will retain owner-
ship of the nationalized mines (as required by the national Cositution).
C. Major categories of hard rock mining
1. General overview
With the transfer in 1952 of the main mining companies into state ownership, the private sector was
reduced to a number of smaller operations and small scale mining. Based on production and financial
criteria, this private sector has come to be subdivided into Medium Mining and Small Mining. Ihese
designations are stil in use even though the Medium Mining nowadays has surpassed COMIBOL
regarding the size of individual operations as well as total output Thus, after te addition more recent-
ly of th category of Mining Cooperatives, a classification is used as presented in Table 4:1.
The main mines now active, or active until recenty, are also preseted in Frg.4:1.
2. State mining (COMIBOL)
As mentioned above, COMIBOL is in a process of pnvafizafion through which all of its properties
eventually will be rnsferred to joint ventures or be leased. The heavily over-staffed company (the
productivity in 1991 being only one third of that of the comparable private industry; see Table 4:1) is
now successively laying off miners as well as other personnel. Of a total of 15 mines (only 6 are
presently in operation), 5 or 6 are estimated to be economically viable for forming joint ventures,
about 6 will be leased to cooperatives and the remaining ones wiU be closed down. Certain old waste
heaps and tailings deposits, which still contain appreciable amounts of metals, will be handled in the
same way. Apart from the mining properties. COMIBOL also owns the explorion nghs over large
tracts of land. The intention is that also these areas wiU be the objects of joint venures. A large num-
ber of abandoned mines, waste heaps and industrial sites that require rehabilitation wiU remain a
liability of the State (see also secion LB).
38



PI
I.                                 o
0.
S :e~~~~~
F



3. Medium Mining (Minecra Mediana)
Those private mining companies which fulfill certain criteria regarding production, financing and
management, are by law affiliated with the Association of Medium Miners (Asociaci6n Nacional de
Mineros Medianos). With te weakening of COMIBOL, this group now represents the main force
within Bolivian industrial mining, although with a smaller number of employees than COMIBOL.
Presently this group has 22 members, companies which range from stable major enterprise with
foreign participation to small domestic companies with only minor production. Most of them are well
administrated and have qualified technical and managerial staffs. With the present low metal prices,
only a very few of these companies are making a profiL
ibe envimnmental concern within this grup of companies varies greatly. Particularly those companies
with heavy foreign involvement show a genuine interest in solving their environmental problems. This
is the case with Battle Mountain (majority owner of Inti Raymi) and RTZ. The latter company, being
one of the world's leading mining companies, is a minority owner of COMSUR, a company which
owns several medium size operations in Bolivia (mostly old). COMSUR has embarked upon a very
ambitious program of technically developing these properties. Measures include the construction of
new technically satisfactory tailings dams, recirauation of water, reclamation plans, systematic moni-
toring of effluents, the intrduction of moden work safety practices and equipment, and a strong
indoctination of pesonne] regarding safety matters.
Table 4:1. Charaterization of the Bolivian mining sector. Note that. regarding production value, no
reducton has been made for realization expenses (smelting, freight etc.). which in Bolivia
averages 40-60 % of the gross value. Production value figures are taken from Asociaci6n
Nacional de Mincras Medianos 1992.
Gross production value 1991    No. of em-
Million US$         % of total  ployees (1991)
State mining (Comibol)             99                 27         6160
Medium Mining (Minerfa Mediana)   150                 41         4010
Small Mining (Minerfa Chica)     118 (total small and    32      7000 (estim-)
Mining Cooperatives (Cooperativas)  informal sector)             50000 (approx.)
TOTAL                            367                  100        67170
40



4. Small Mining (Minerfa Chica)
TIhe Minerfa Chica is a heterogenous group of small cnterrses rnging from industnal opaions
treating up to 200 tonnes of ore per day (and thereby being bigger than the smallest enteprises within
the Mtinera Mediana) to very small family-based activities. Their umbrella organization is the National
Chamber of Mines (Cimara Nacional de Minerfa) with regional offices in 8 diffement places around the
country. The Chamber esimates that there are at present around 1,000 to 1,500 companies of this
inod, only some of them being members and paying thir fees. A great majority of them are very
small and do not differ substantially from the coopeatives (discussed below) as regards organization
or work methods. Ihe total number of employed persons within this sector amounts to about 7,000,
with an additional 3,000 quanying for industrial minerals. This is less than one quarter of what it used
to be ten years ago.
5. Coopratives
As an old tradition, but much extended after 1985, groups of miners are working small deposits or
leftovers in mines which have been closed down; most of these mines are owned by COMIBOL TIhe
total number of such workers is many times larger than that of miners employed by the formal
industry. hibs informal miner may be a "locator" (leaseholder) through an agreement with the owner
of the mine (COMIBOL), or more often a 'cooperativista" i.e. belonging to a cooperafive (again
usually with a permit from COMIBOL). The cooperative is usualy, in reality, either 1) an informal
type of company owned by one or several individuals who employ other miners (npeones") or 2) a
loose association of "cuadrillas" (groups or gangs; often made up by a family, including children),
which serves the purpose mainly of acquiring the permit and selling the product Proper cooperation is
thus very limited and the term "cooperativa" is mainly a euphemism for the reckless variety of ente-
prise typical for a gold rush milieu.
The methods used vary from simple artisanal work to somewhat mechaized operations with pneuma-
tic drilling and the use of wagons for transport. These latter more developed operations are mainly
companies, in which the majority of the miners are daily workers, without any employment security
and working for an exceedingly low salary. As a rule, the "cooperativa mining takes place with
complete disregard for occupational health and safety as weU as any environmental concern.
The ore produced is either sold to an industrial plant or teated for concentaion in the simple mills of
the respective "cuadrillas". Primitive as they may seem, these plants ar often imitating the methods
used by industry, including the use of the same types of reagents. All waste goes to the same river or
stream from where the process water is taken. -lhe life of a "cooperativista". or particulady that of his
employee, is generaly very hard. physically dangerous and hazardous tD bealthL It is based on the
personal need for survival by exploiting ores wbich by all normal standards are uneconomic to re-
cover. It is a situation of social emergency which cannot, for financial reasons, be changed to any
major extent; i.e. any essential improvement of the situation requires an investment which would make
the operation unprofitable.
The informa mining must be regarded as an anachronism from an enviromnental point of view, in
terms of both the natual and work environments. In spite of its old traditions, it cannot be accepted as
a normal and satisfactory type of "industry". It pollutes the environment heavily and subjects the
worker to a variety of health and security hazards. Nonetheless, it will only disappear
41



when the accessible mineralizations arc exhansted or through the development of altemative
occpations. Until then. measures will havc to bc sought which can alleviate the worst aspects of the
situation without subsidizing or otherwise prolonging these unfortunate circumstances.
6. Alluvial gold mining
Alluvial gold mining is the exploltation of gold that occurs as dispersed grains in the loose overburden
or in poorly consolidated sediments. The gold originates from the bedrockc, from which it has been
liberated rough glacial or weatiering processes. During water tranportgold is deposited, due to its
weight, into concentrations of pockets or blankets of gold-bearing sfands, gravels or conglomerates.
The origin of the gold in most Bolivian alluvial deposits is thought to be the eroded upper pars of the
Cordillera Real. From there it has been transported to the norttern foothills of the Bolivian Andes,
to the tributaries of the Amazon River and. through glacial transport, to the western slopes of the
Cordillera Real (the slopes toward the Altiplano).
One can distinguish the following types of deposits:
1. Older conglomerates (the Cangalli formation of Upper Miocene age). Gold in basal palaeo-
channels or lower grade zones higher up in the formatios. The present locations of these de-
posits are usually along the existing river valleys; howe,ver, tey may also occur up to hund-
reds of meters above or below the present water course.
2. Taraces related to the present river systems.
3. Gravels in the present drainage systems.
4. Glacial deposits (till and glaciofluvial).
Gold has been exploited in Bolivia since pre-Columbian times. It is estimated that from the arrival of
the Spaniards up through 1934, more than 300 tonnes of gold were produced, neady all of it from
alluvial deposits (Mathews 1988). Presently, intensive exploitation of gold om  alluvial deposits
occurs in two main areas within the Amazon basin. namely 1) along the Tipuami and adjoining rivers
draining the Eastem Cordillera and 2) along the Madera and Madre de Dios rivers close to the frotier
with Brazil in the nonthmstemost part of Bolivia (fig. 4:2).
lhe total gold production from these areas is unknown because a major part of t is illegally taken out
of the country. A Congressional commission esEimated it to be worth US$ 400 million in 1989
(Gustavson 1992). this to be compared with the official production of US$ 43 million (including hard
rock gold from the Altiplano).
The method of exploitation depends on the nature of the deposit (see part 4. chapter EII.F, below). The
size of operations varies from large scale dredging to individual panning or exploration of underground
galleries. Many of the operations are carried out by cooperatives, organized in a similar manner as
described above. A majority of the workers are the so called "voluntanos". who are only very infor-
mally linked to the operations and work for a "patron" in return for the riiht to excavate for
42



their own gain during a number of hours per week. The large dredges active in the northcastern border
area are usually owned and managed from the Brazilian side.
A particular environmental concern in the gold workings is the general use of mercury for the amal-
gamation of the concenhatcs, mercury which is then heated off into the atmospherc for the recupera-
tion of gold and in this way eaters soils and watcrs. Other serious consequeaces include the hcavy
effect on the landscape by dredging, diversions of rivers etc. These areas of alluvial mining are to a
great extent outside public control and largely lack infxastructure. Hcalth service is rudimentary and
serious accdents are very common. By and large, environmental concerm and workers' hcalth and
safety are unknown conceptions.
Fig. 4:2 Map of main aeas of alluvial gold mining in Bolivia. Source: GEOBOL
43



IL POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
A. Economicllegal reform and the mining sector
Within the mining sector. thc New Economic Policy of 1985 implies that the governmcn; should
search for conditions and mechanisms to attract pnvake nsk capital, as the statc mining is not in a
situation to make major investments. The strategy comprises the following main aims:
o Avoid the collapse of the traditional mining industry through private investors, capable of
providing capital, modern technology and management competence.
* CGencrate a process of expansion and strengthening of the sector in accordance with the minc-
ral pntential of the country.
* Eliminate government interventionism and protectionism.
* Establish appropriate lines of credits.
These principles were established in legal form with the modification of thi. Mining Code in 1991.
(Law No. 1297, C6digo de Minerfa). This new law establishes clear rules regarding mining rights and
procedures for their allocation, as well as the tax provisions in association with the exploitation of a
denosit Thus. all taxes on production and exportation have been eliminated and replaced with a gene-
ral tax on net profits of 30%. and a complementary tax (guaranteed amount) of 2.5% on net sales
value. The latter is paid only when thi profit tax is lower than the complementary tax, and then re-
places the former. These rules are valid for all new companis formed after October 1992 and will
successively replace the old system based on royalties.
According to particular laws aimed at promoting investment, the mining sector is favored by a short
depreciation time for investments in machinery (5 years) and, In addition to this, the possibility to
deduct investments against profits. These possibilities include investment for the improvement of the
environment Even if these incentives are primarily economic in claacter, they should also help in
improving the environmental situation, parly as investments addressed directly towards environmental
improvements, partly as process and other improvements which indirectly give advancements also
from an environmental point of viow.
B. Mining and environment
The very few enviromnental provisions within the new Mining Code concern the use of water; there
are no specific mechanisms for implementing the ones concerning environmental quality and possible
harm. Article 85 assigns the right of use of water within the concession to the title holder, but obliges
him to return it to the original water source in the same condition as when it was taken. Article 87
calls for indemnization to those affected if wa:cr is rendered useless for human, animal or agricultur
use. Although it is implicit, no mention is made of water tratment to prevent damage. Article 91
states that the concessionaire has to get a water concession from the Superintendency of Mining. This
assignment of control to the Superintendency concerning water rights could cause conflict with other
authorities within this field.
44



A comparison of relevant water quality standards undcr Bolivia's Regulauon for Disposal of Industial
Waste into Bodies of Watcr (see Part 3. chapter VI.B.) with roughly corresponding standards from
other countries, appears below in Part 4. chapter ILE on environmental pollution.
C. Responsible government Institutions
[n general, all mining activities are under the supervision of the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy
(MMM). However, as summarized below. some important functions are handled by the Superinten-
dency of Mines in the judicial branch of govcrnment. Also, there are pending changes In the organiza-
tion of MM that may affect the assignment of cnvironmental responsibilities.
The allocation of exploration or exploitation rights is the responsibility of the national Superintendrency
of Mines and conresponding departmental units that exist in most of the departments of Bolivia. The
Superintendency of Mines serves under the National Court of Mining, which in turn serves under Ihe
National Supreme Court of Justice.
The Superintendency has at Its disposal for field investigations, the Technical Service of Mining, a
unit under the MMM, with regional offices in the main mining departments. A decentralized unit for
the administration of mining rights records. the National Service of Mining Cadastre (SENCAM), was
recently established within MMM. The Technical Service of Mining will be lransferred to SENCAM.
In accordance with the stipulations in the Environmental Law, a Direction of Environment is planned
to be established within the MMM. To a large extent, this new Direction of Environment may have to
rely on expertise outside of the MMM. MMM plans to begin developing environmental mining regula-
tions in 1993, possibly with assistance from the U.N. Development Programme.
iL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
A. General aspects
Mining opeations, as defined for the purpose of this reporL basically include a) the exploitation of
ores in underground or open pit min, b) the treatment of the ore to produce metal concentrates' (base
metals etc.) or metal buDions (gold and silver) and c) the discarding of waste products. The exacion
of gold from alluvial deposits differs in sevewal important respects from traditional hard rock mining
and therfore is covered in a seoarate section. Mining activities generally have a strong impact on the
environment Effects vary deperding on the basic nature of the exploitation as well as the procedures
and protective measures employed. The following main environmental impacts can be identified, al of
which exist in Bolivia:
'Primary smelters are included within this part of the EA report, rather tan with the follow-
ing Chn;.- - on industry, because the Government of Bolivia classifies primary smelters as part of
the a1  ig :ctor-
45



* bThe consumption of scarce or depictable natural resources
- Use of land
- Removal of ores and minerals
- Use of wat (surface watcr, ground water or fossil water)
* Transformation of the landscape
- Open pit exploitation
- Tailing dans
- Waste rock disposal
- Waste piles from heap leaching
- Dredging activities
* Wastewater cffluents
- Mine water
- Process water
- Tailings in process water suspension
- Lcachates from old waste dumps and other sources
* Solid waste
- Mine waste rock
- Tailings from concentation operations
* Dust and gases
* Occupational health aspects (see chapter IV.)
The mining sector is esdtmated to employ 60,000 to 80,000 people, about 15% of them in industrial
opeations and 85% in semi-mechanized or artisanal activities. Working conditions within the in-
dustnial sector range from good to poor, with the larger private companies performing besL Conditions
in state mines are deteriorating due to deficient management and lackang resources. Investigations ten
years ago showed, for example, that the average rate of silicosis among the workers in COMIBOL
mines was an alarming 11%; there is every rcason to believe that this serious situation persists. Activi-
ties within the work-intensive small scale and artisanal sectors are chadterzed by and hazardous
health and safety conditions and a general lack of formal employment rights or social insurance.
The mining industry consumes approximately 315 milion m3 of water each year. This is amounts to
about 2% of the total water resources available in the Altiplano. where the great majority of the mines
are situated. Even though this may seem a modest percentage, much competition regarding scarce
water resources occurs in many mining areas. The reirctation of watr in the processing plants
averages only 10-20%.
Effluents from mining operations cause widespread contamination of natural soils and waters. The
Study Team analyzed mine waters, brought to the surface through pumping or natural flow, at ten
different mines. In all cases, these samples exhibited high contents of one or several heavy metals
(e g., copper. cadmium, arsenic, lead and zinc), values which were usually 10-100 times higher than
the typical standards used for mining effluents in industrialized countries. Ihe aame is true for process
waters from beneficiation plants, sampled and analyzed at about 20 different sites. Such waters often
contain exemely high contents of heavy metals, as well as process chemicals such as xanthates and
cyanide. The fequent lack of proper tailings damr, or deficiencies in their management, results in 30-
50% of all waste waters with their contaminations being disch2rged to nature. Another major problems
is "acid rock drainage." which is caused by oxidation of sulfides in tailings and waste rock, and the
subsequent formation of acid, metal-rich solutions through leaching by rain water. All these sources of
pollution pose major potential threats to flora and fauna. Ihey also affect man more directly by redu-
46



dcg thc quality of water for drinkdng, agricultural and recrcation, and causing corrosion of steel and
concrete structures. such as water pipes.
The present annual production of solid wastc from industrial mining is approximately 5 million tonnes,
of which about one half Is discharged to tailings dams of satisfactoy construction and management.
The remaining Industrial min'ng operations will have to be equipped with such facilities at an estirna-
ted cost of USS 6.5 millionL The reclamAion of old tailings, the latter estimated to about 104 million
tonnes, implies a cost of USS 725 million. Ihese estimates do not include solid waste carreatly being
managed by the mine owners (certain private mining companies), or waste originating from small scalc
or antisanal operations.
The spread of meury to nature is a major conoen associated with alluvial gold operations in certain
parts of the Amazon basin. It is difficult to quantify mercury contamination hecause of the uncon-
trolled exploitation and the uncertainties about the extent of activities and rate of gold pmduction.
However, it seems likely that annualy at least 25-50 tonnes of mercury are discharged to nature, and
perhaps more. It has been shown that fish from the gold mining areas contain anomalous valucs of
mercury and ihere are preliminary indications of poisoning within the population. Another serious.
though unquantified environmental impact of alluvial mining is degradation of the land, patticularly
from dr. dging opertions.
The long history of contamination through mining in Bolivia is exemplified by the occurrences of
mercury from Colonial times in sediments in the Paria river close to Obrajes (Departamento de Omuro).
Merwcry was used at that time in a process for the extraction of silver. In the Paria river a number of
persons are now collecting, for comm ization. the merLury accumulations, which appear in certain
layers of the river sediments. The present-day widespread use of mercury for the exuaction of gold by
analgamation is dealt with in chapter mLF.
Dust from mine operations and the emission of poisonous gases from smelters, are other factors affect-
ing the environment as well as the human health.
In summary. Bolivian mining has caused and continues to cause a major negative impact on the na-
tural as well as the human enviromnment It is evident that aside from urban growth and related conta-
mination from waste and sewage, niining is the single most serious environmental problem in the
country. This is party through its direct effects, and parly through its social implications.
More environmental concerns abort Bolivian mining have arisen during recent years. This is partly in
connection with the new environmental law and the estblishment of SENMA. and partly though
other, often foreign, initiatives. *hus the first demonstration of proper cleaning of process water from a
mineral beneficiation mill has recently been initiated at the Bolivar mine. thugh a pilot plant con-
structed with foreign aid.
B. Restructuring of the mining sector and its environmental consequences
Environmental aspects have never been very important in Bolivian mining. However, the main compa-
nies, before 1952 as well as later within COMIBOL, usually collected their tailings in reasonably well
kept heaps or ponds. in order to preserve the material for possible later re-treatment and for the preser-
vafion of water resources Even within the area of occupational health and safety, significant improve-
47



ments (although from a very low level) wcre made within COMIBOL before 1985. The trends in
Bolivian mining during recent years. as scen from an cuvironmental point of vicw, can be summarized
as follows:
- Ihe change from tin mining to the exploitation of lead/zinc/silver has meant a change from the
dominant, wlatively clean, mclhods of gravity concentation to an increased use of process
reagents such as xanthates, cyanide, etc.
- The discovery of a new major low grade gold deposit near Onrro has meant the introduction for
the fist time In Bolivia of a large-scale open pit operation (the Inti Raymi mine) and the leaching
of the gold In heaps and tanks by use of cyanide solutions. In other places. heap leaching with
cyanide solutions is employed for the extraction of silver fron old waste material (two operations
in Potosi).
- The present unsatisfactory economic oerformance of many mines has caused a decease in the
ability and deternination of manageir _nt to control effluent and waste disposal. For example,
COMIBOL has recently stopped pumping the tailings at Its Santa Fe mine to the tailings pond.
Instead, it lets the waste go directly to the nearby river, in order to decrease pumping costs.
- The recent surge of innumerable new small scale to artisanal operations, (the phenomenon
having, nonetheless, a very old tradition) has given rise to serious problems, mainly of a social
character but also affecting the environmenL These activities are essentially outside any public or
other control, with the conseqrience that most procedures regarding health and safety are ignored
and that no anention is paid to pollution of the eavironment.
- Mines being closed often means less pollution from mine wa  and tailings. However, it may
also signify the cease of attention to taUings ponds (if existing) and the initiation of a more dis-
orderly operation by "cooperafivistas". Cosed opeations are usually left without any type of
clean-up or land reclamation. Acid drainage is occurring In a majority of these places.
- A positive development is the arrival in Bolivia of some fordgn mining companies with a high
degree of knowledge and standards in technical and environmental questions. Thus, a few good
examples of enviromaental management exist, in new operations as well as in mitigating old poor
practices. However, it should be mentioned that other foreign Investors with less financial possi-
bilities and litte prestige to lose, also are entering the Bolivian mining scene, with a iestricted
interest in environmental questions.
C. Use of land and natural resources
Mine exploitation is different from many other industrial activities in that it is natumally restncted to
the location of the ore deposiL Ihe only choice is which method of exploitation wiU be employed (e.g.
underground or open pit mining) and even tat freedom is generaly very restncted for economic
reasons. The processing of the ore is also normaly made as close to the mine as possible in order to
avoid transporting large tonnages. Exceptions may occur when a process&ng plant is serving two or
more mines or when the lack of water or otler necessary amenities makes anoter locaton moxe
suitable. A low grade (in the sense of low value) ore cannot usually be economically transported for
long distances whIle a high grade ore (like some very selectively mined and hand-sorted ores from
48



small Bolivian deposits) may be taken 150-250 km for their processing. Waste rock and tailings are
for te same economic reasons usually deposited dose to the mine and/or proccss plantL
Most of the Bollvian mines are located in high altitude mountainous terrain where there has boee little
altcrnative use of land and therefore litle direct conflict with other activities like forestry or agri-
culture. However. as mining in many areas is several hundred years old, often exploiting one and the
same deposit, urban areas have in many cases developed around the mining operations, thus causing
conflicts with any e;:tension of the industnal activities. The resulting disorderly mixture of industrial
and civil life In cities such as Potosf and Omro has a seriously negative effect on the quality of life
(see chapter VI).
Whilc land is an abundant resource in the Bolivian mountains, water is correspondingly scarce. Rain
and melt water are usually collected in dams at high elevations for use by industry as well as house-
holds, and sometimes even for irrigation purposes. Conflicts among these different water consumers
are very common.
D. Land degradation
Traditionally, Bolivian mining has occurred in underground mines with entrances by mountainside
galleries supplemented by vertical shafts. Only recenty has large scale open pit mining arrived to the
country, with the development of the Inti Raymi gold operationL Another possible extensive surface
exploitation is the extraction of salt for lithium in the Uyuni salt desert in southwestem Bolivia. This
development towards surface exploitations is obviously a trend which will be strengthened, as has
been the case in most other mining countries.
Regarding solid waste disposal, the tradition in Bolivia has been to let out the tailings downstream into
primitive ponds or directly into a river. Only recently have a couple of responsible mining companies
constructed proper dams for their waste and introduced plans for event  reclamation of their dams
and tailing piles. Wast piles from the heap leaching with cyamde for gold and silver is a by-product
of new extraction methods introduced in Bolivia during the last five years. These opeations seems to
be relatively well managed, but will have to be controlled In an adequate manner for many years and
ultimately be reclaimed.
Large scale dredging of river beds for tin (regarding gold, see chapter IILF ) has occurred in the
Aluiplano and the Potosf areas but is now discontinued due to lack of profitability. Ihe negative conse-
quences in a number of places have been the reshaping of valley bottoms and the destruction of some
farming land.
E Environmental pollution
1. Wastewater effluents
a. Mine water. The predominant Bolivian ore deposit is of a polymetallic sulfidic charater. The con-
tent of iron sulfide, mainly in the form of pyrite or pyirhotite, is usually high or very high. The
weathering of these minerals gives rise to higthly corrosive waters with acidities usually around pH 3
but occasionally as low as pH 1.5 (pH 7 is neutral). The frequently high contents in the ore of such
49



metals as zinc, lead, copper, arsenic, cadmium, silver. etc. are leached by the acid water and brought
to the surface - at active mines through pumping and at many abandoned mines by natural flow. Such
water, enriched in heavy metals, is oftcn discharged directly to any nearby river. At some mines the
mine water is used in the concentration piocess. directy or after neutralization and treatment, depend-
ing on the process used. From an eovironmental point of view, such a procedure is highly desirable,
even if In Bolivia tis usualy occurs only when other sources of water are lacking.
Analyses of water fiom a selected number of mines are presented In Table 4:2. As can be seen, most
mines produce water with a low pH and with a very high content of heavy metals. However. the
actual composition of the waters varies appreciably among the different mines. The generally high
mineral contents, particularly of cadmium, copper and zinc are of obvious major concem.
Table 4:2. Analytical results of mine waters at outlets. Sample locations: E32 Siglo XX mine. E33
Bolivar mine. E42 Unificada mine. E53 Huari mine. E96 Colquiri mine. E103 Japo mine
(inactive). E106 Mathilde mine (inactive). All values, except pH and flow, given in mg/l.
Laboratory: E1MM, Oniro. December 1992. For further details see Appendix IV.4 .
Sigbo XX     Bdlivar  U|milcmda        Huati      Colqu i|   Japo        Maihde
Snmple No.           E32          B33         E42         E53         E6         E103        E106
pH                     2.1          2.9         23          2.9         2.6         3.0         7.8
low m'hS               0.03         0.05        u.025       0.01  O        0        0.025       0.025
Suspended solids     452.         210.       3529.         99.         729.                   172.
Di;olved solids     5931.        1987.      44690.        4660.      20190.       2493.       720.
Ag                    A005  !       002         0.03        0.01        OD2         0.00        0.OO
As                     0.00         0.04        035         0.0         0.00         1.03       0.00
Cd                     9.0          1.1        14.           1.06        53S0       10.4        0.02
or              |      0.04         0.00        0.20        004         0.06       O00          0.00
Co                     5.5          0.14      2             0.03         5.75       838        0Q00
Fe                   600.         129.        5294.       2020.       1882.        458          1.2
Hg                     0.000        0.000       0.000        .000       0.000        0.001      O.OO
Mn                    15.8          4.33       24.8         22.6       361.         2.15       14.5
Ni                     1.25         0.08        1.30        0.40         2.06       0.28        0.09
Po                     0.10        O0s          0.18        0.10         0.23        0.10       0.00
Sb                     0.11         0.26        0.85        0.00         0.15        0.12       0.55
Zn                   224.         356.       2942.         461.       1330.         30.0       24.0
SO.                 3311.                    7504.        2629.       7922.       !48.%.      400.
50



b. Poess water. Process water from the concentaton plants employing notation contains three main
categories of contamination: 1) heavy metals in solution; 2) suspended slime with heavy metals; and 3)
flotation reagents and other chemicals added in the process. The usually high pH of 10-12 used in the
final part of the flotation process rcstricts the solubility of metals and thus limits their abundance as
dissolved ions by precipitation. In this way, metals are removed into the solid waste or into the sus-
pended slime, from where they may, subsequently, be leached out through natural processes. The
process water is discharged from the plant with the solid waste as a slurry. Sometimes this sluny is
discharged to a nearby river. but more commonly it Is fed Into some type of tailings dam.
Table 4:3. Analytical results of mill and tailings pond effluents. Sample locations: E12 Milluni mine
(inactive), sample downstream tailings pond. E36 Tiwanacu Poopo plant, overflow from
tailings pond. 144 Porco mine, overflow tmm tailings pond. E55 Kumurana-Jukucha plant,
effluent from tin plant (process water from lake contaminated by mining and acid rock
drainage). E62 AndaLalha mine, overflow from tailings pond. E94 Colquin mine, mixed
water 2 km downstream tailings pond. ElOI Sana Fe mine, process water from plant. All
values, except pH and flow, given in mg/I. Laboratory: 11MM. Oniro. December 1992.
Millni |a   Pvoop        pCr     | Kauama    Andacaba       Coblui    Smz Fe
S3ue No.             E12         E36          E4         ES5          E62        E94        EIOI
pH                     2.1         4.9         11.9         4.2        9.0         33          3.1
Flow u,/A              0.1         0.04         0.075       0.02       0.02s       o03         05
Suapcnded oibds      143.        650.          10.      16460.         12.       316.        750.
Diasved goldida      909.       9865.        1545.        949.       616.        7101.      2004.
AS             0|00                06          0.01       0L07        0.00        0.04       0.03
.00         0.41        0.00        4.60        0.00        020        0.00
Cd                     0.11        0.50         0.01        2.06       0.01        0.85        1.40
or                     0.000       0.00         0.00       020         0.00        0.05       0.06
cm                     0.460       0.45         1.09       143          1.63       4D08        2.53
Fe                    96.0        28.2          0.66       83.1         1.12      536.       376.
Hg                     0.000       0.000        O.0         0.003      0.000       0.000       0.000
Mn                    10.3         2.73         0.75       49.2        0.11       150.         4.15
Ni                     0.11        0.15         0.05        0.55        0.04        1.08       0.22
Po                     008         2.91         3.3        60.4        0.25        2.03        8.20
Sb                     G.13        0.23          .25        4A5         0.30       0.20        043
Zia                   33.0        50.4          1.16      313.          1.03      424.       106.
SO.                  553.        1 38.        449.        476.        279.       4203.      1203.
51



After the setling of suspended material, water is either disdiarged to nature or recycled for usc in the
plant lhe quality of the over-flow water leaving the dams is only seldom controlled. As exemplified
in Table 4:3. samples E44 and E62, elevated contents of certain elements may occur in spite of a high
pH. In agricultural aeas farmes may complain if the content of suspended solids is too high (i.e.
readily visible) while high contents of dissolved metals or chemicals tend to pass unnoticed. In cases
when the tailings pond water is not neutralized, or when acid process waler is discharged directy into
nature (as exemplified in Table 4:3 by samples E36 and EIOI, respectively) appreciable quantities of
heavy metals are released
Flotation reagents include sodium cyanide, copper sulphate, zinc sulphate, xanthates, frotfers, etc. In a
well managed plant, most of these chemicals are absorbed to mineral grains in the process and so are
no longer in free solution. However, when used in excess, they will remain in solution and go with the
tailings. The use of reagents in the heneficiation or leaching processes at some Bolivian operations is
presented in Tlable 4:4- A particular concem is the use of cyanide which, if not properly handled, can
be acutely toxic to man or other living creatures, such as fish. Xanthates are another worry because of
their toxicity to the aquatic flora and fauna. However, both cyanide and xanthates are normally readily
broken down (by oxidation and hydrolysi;, respectively) if the discharge wat  is kept for a sufficient-
ly long period in a tailings pond.
Table 4:4. Production and process data for a number of Bolivian beneficiation plants.
COmO I  Cavi            Eldivar      Pat        Velwde      Do        Andacaba
l_____ ___                                       _      _)    Digp
Capacty IAd        100          400         40          1200       300         g0         1go
POdUd!    Ag                     Ss         Zn/Ag       ZnAg        Zn/Ag      Zn/Ag     Z7/Ag
_b/As      Pb/Ag                   Pb/Ag      lb/Ag
Proessm           Hep Iac       Gaviq      FI L dIft    FIL diet   FIaL dkec    HaL duff.   Flo. dUff.
Reants:         I                                                I 
Xaatbais gA                                  394         20D         90          65         50
QaSO4  TA                                    660         400         480        350        400
ZnSO4 BA                                     194         75                     1SO        500
FROdsSgh                                     90          so          40          60        230
Limeg                                        9350       10000       16000       300        3000
Cyanide gA           500                     114         75                     100         40
ProzspH              13           7         5/11         12          12          7
Watr m3Ao            0.3         7.0         6.0         3.0         6.0        3.0         5.3
Watcr sowce       Waer dam      Spiap        Mime      Dam/mine     Dams        wen        MiDe
Waste aer outlet   RcircuL     To river    RecircDamN               Dam       RecirmL      NW
overfow    overflow               overflow
Solid was        Hes to be                   Dm                     Dam         Dam        Dam
covered
52



Mhis is far from always the case at Bolivian mdnes and cven less so in small scale and artisanal opera-
tions. Only the more recently established cyanide leaching operations (for gold and silver) have ade-
quale facilities for the control of cyanide solutions.
Poper facilities for the treatment of process effluents do not occur at any flotation mill operation in
Bolivia. However, the addition of lime to the overflow water from tailings dams is sometimes prac-
ticed. this in order to create a high pH and taxeby precipitate heavy metals. The only really ambitious
activity within this field is a small demonstration plant built, with foreign support at the Bolivar mine.
Here effluent water is separated from solids in settling tanks and then mun through vacuum filters.
c. Acid rock drainage. Acid rock drainage (ARD). or the synonymous Acid mine dminage (AMD), are
the terms used for acid, metal-bearing, natural waters, fmnned by the oxidation of iron sulfide mincrals
to sulfuric acid and subsequent leaching of rocks and mlneralizations. It includes the formation of acid
waters in mines (as described above) but has a much wider implication. lTus. the ARD process may
affect
- sulfidic ores in mines
- sulfidic mineralizations (veins, impregnations etc.) in outcropping bedrock
- sulfide-bearing waste rock stockpiles
- sulfide-beazing tailings deposits
Obviously this is a process which can continue for many years after exploitation has ceased. Duiing
the time of operation, mine water will normally be trated (or used in the process), tailings will be
kept wet (and thereby practically non-oxidizing) and waste rock is possibly used as refill. A very
negative consequence of the unfortuatle habit of letting tailings out directly into streams and rivers, is
the spread of this material over large areas with possibilities for subsequent and future formation of
ARD.
Moreover, after closure of a mine, mine water may still be flowing to the surface and into nature, and
tailings and waste rock may be open to oxidation/leaching. This latter situation frequently occurs in
Bolivia; many abandoned mining fields are still producing acid waters and resultant metal contamina-
tions. In certain areas. for example along the slopes of Cerro Rico in Potosi, leaching of the old waste
rock has gone so far that pynte and pyrihote have been totally consumed and no acid is presently
produced (a positive effect of this is that this complete oxidation has made the material very amenable
to the industrial leaching of remaining silver).
d. _m urXnment  regulatio rejgarding water QuaUly. The discharge of mine waters and process water
into nature may be harmful to man and. even more so, to the aquatic flora and fauna As it is usually
impractical or cost-prohibitive to totally avoid contamination, much thought worldwide has gone into
defining rcceptable limits. Different principles are in use, the simplest and most stmaightfowward being
based on maximum contents for the different dissolved elements in the discharge. Such standards,
particularly specified for mining operations, have been elaborated in for example the USA and Canada.
In other countries the guiding ptinciple has come to be the assimilative capacity of the receiving
ecosystem. In for example Sweden and Fiuand there exist no general discharge norms but an indi-
vidual examination of each opeation or new project based on the local ecological situation and the
choice of best available and economically viable technique. Japanese discharge stndards are drawn
from drinking water standards, presuming an average tenfold dilution in the receiving waters. A few
examples of standard discharge values concerning heavy metals are given in Table 4:5. Regardless of
53



which set of stanrds or recommenadations is chosen for comparison, discharges from many Bolivian
mines are very high in metals and Mhere is all reason for concern. Measures will have to be taken and.
for this end, norms will have to be established (any norms will have to take into account the fact that
an unusually high concetration of metals occur naturally, and so adopting norms fom counties that
do not have such high concentuaions occuning naturally would produce excessively strict standards
for Bolivia).
However, it may be inapprpriate to focus too much of attention on the standards as suchL Ihe ways
of complying with these standards are eqcally important for a good result. Ihe choice of suitable
technology and correct process procedures are decisive In these efforts. The scope is thus an environ-
mentally sound corporate planning, including economizing with scarce rasources, minimizing (or
avolding) discharges, the tratment of waste according to best Inown practice and a planning for
ultimate rehabilitation already at the sWt of a projecL Such a technological approach may also be
more efficient in promoting general eavironmental awareness than the sole promulgation of somewhat
abstract standards. With the intention of stimulating such a tactic, an outline for a Code of Pracice for
Mining Operations is presented in Appendix IV.12, with the hope that it can serve as a base for the
mining community as wel as the state authorities in elaborating the more detailed directions.
Table 4:5. Examples of standard valuer for metals in mining effluents as used in some different
countries. Sweden and Finland establish standards for each individual source; presented
values are examples from base metal mines. Bolivian values represent industrial discharge
limits according to "Reglamento sobre lanzamiento de desechos industriales en cuerpos de
agua", niles published by the Ministenio de Urbanismo y Vivienda. Al values except pH
given in mg/l.
US-EPA   US-EPA   Canada    Canda   Sweden F!inlad    Jpn          Bolivia
Daiy    Monthly    GTb    MOmbY               3 mams
_____ ____ _____ ____ ____sam pl                       _ _ __ _
pH              6.0-9.0   6.0-9.0    >6.0 T    6.0     >6.5    6.0-9.5   5.-36   4.5-10.0
Supended solids    30.    20.       50.       25.                40.      20D.       1.0
As                                   1.0       0.5                         0.5       1.0
Cd                0.0      0.0                          0.01               0.1       I
Cr                                                                         0.5       5.0
Cu                0.30     0.15      0.6       0.3      0.1       0.3      3.        5.0
Fe                                                               33        10.      10.0
Kg                0.00     0.001                                           0.005    0.05
Mn                                                                05       10.      10.0
Ni                                   1.0       05                 1.
Pb                0.60     0.30      0.4      0.2       0.1                 .        20
Sb
Zn                1.50     0.75      1.0       0.5      0.1       1.0      5.       50.0
SOd.                                       II                                     seoo.
54



2. Solid waste
aL TiIsnPs o.autiu . As indicated in the previous section, most of the now active concentation plants
only produce one tailing, which is discharged as a slurty. Only at a few mines, like the Huanuni tin
mine, two different wastes are geneated, one coarse sand which is ransported dry to a special moun-
tain-side tip and another fine slime whidch goes with the process water to the river. In previous times a
higher proportion of coarse waste material was produced in Bolivia, particularly in connecion with the
exploitation for tinL A major deposit of this lat   kind is the remaining coase waste fom previous tin
mining at the Siglo XX mine (Catavi), which holds more han 25 million tonnes of material. Similar
large quantities cover the slopes of Cero Rico AI Potosf, this mateial presently serving as the source
of silver in heap leaching operations.
Deposits of fine tailings occur in large quantities in present and previous mining amas. In fact,
in many areas, the large volumes of old waste represent a dominating feature in the landscape. In
addition, smaller heaps am often dotting the mountain-sides. Reliable figures regarding tonnages and
metal contents are available for many of the deposits as they represent reserves which could in many
cases be profitably treated for their remaining metals. The calculated reseves of this kind belonging to
COMIEBOL, totally about 86 million tonnes, are detailed in Table 4:6. A rough estimate regarding the
total existing quantiy of mining waste in the country would be aound 130-160 million tonnes. Ihe
main environmental concern regarding these deposits include 1) the conditions during an eventual
Table 4:6. COMIBOL reserves of metal-bearing waste malerial for possible re-treatmen
M4ining CnIer    Coarse wagze    F& ineUailn  so        Zn         Pb         A
WO00 km      WOU)=          s          s          s          gA
Hurnuni       j       22          2375     0.42.036
S_ Jose              1242         1897     0.34                  0.47       89-152
Bolivar              330             7     0.76       3.97       092            75
JapO                  201          425     052-042                _
colqu|ii    12016                          051        3.74
Cneoles               137         2065     0.31
San Viu ne            155           28                1.69                     203
T e;s.                183          720                1.0128    120-o-3S     95-56
An                     6          4355     0.30       0.38       0.47           73
Cwolqukpe             193         392      0.62-0.23
TUs                  250           193     0.44-024
UniICRa4             6550         5189     0.27-0.79                         196-75
CaIsyi              25897        19670     020.44
TOTAL               35966        49832
55



reprocessing, and 2) the possiblc leadcing by rain water with formation of add waters wimn high con-
tents of heavy metals (acid rock drainage as discussed above). This latter phenomenon depends basi-
cally on the present content in the different deposits of iron sulfide minerals, information which usual-
ly Is not available. However, it can be presumed that this content in many cases is high.
With a few good exceptions. the management of effluents and tailings at Bolivian mines is very un-
controlled and indifferenL However, generally speaking, the bigger and more tehnically and economi-
cally solid the company Is, the betler the managemenL Small operations and artisanal activities are
usually devoid of any sort of control. The present production of solid waste from mining in Bolivia Is
estimated to about 5 million tonnes, a comparatively modest figure. With the possible introdaction in
the future of extensive large scale mining, this figure could Increase very substantially. For example
the Intl Raymi operation is scheduled to increase its waste production from 1.4 million tonnes to about
5 million tonnes per year from 1994.
b. Cast of tailing-s dams. As a basis for cost evaluations, we have studied a number of recently built
tailings dams as well as certain companies' cost estimates for new dams. The costs vary substantially,
from about USS lSO/annual ton of mine capacity for the largest operailns to about US$ 4 - 5 for the
smaller and more expensive installations. We have anived at an avcrage of US$ 2.60 which also
Includes some improvement of the sewage systems in the associated mining towns (see Appendix
IV.5). Using this figure and presuming an annual tailings production of 2.5 million tonnes, result in a
total cost for the construction of tailings dams ot USS 6.5 million. The dams are usually built for a
period of storage of 10 years. Tlhe cost figures do not include possible requirements within the smal
scale and cooperative sectors. Nor do they include investments by those companies which are already
carrying out or planning such remediation measures. Furthermore, it is presumed that all investments
in new mining ventures will include adequate facilities for waste disposal.
c. CostL   lamntoi fls It is only during the last dcxades at mining cnmpanies have started
to reclaim old tailings dams and mine dumps. For this reason, the experience is limited. One thing is
clear, however. such projects are expensive. To reclaim an old tailings dam or a mine dump usually
costs 5 to 10 times the cost of building a tailings d; m, calculated per ton of tailings material contained
in the dam or dump. The usual concept is to cover the dam or dump so that air cannot reach the
sulfide minerals, whereby oxidation is prvented and tke production of sulfuric acid and heavy metal
leaching is avoided. Tbis cover can either be made by creating a lake over the dam or to cover the
dam or dump by a layer of material that is impermeable for oxygen as well as water. The method of
covering by wat, i.e. cleating a lake, is usually much cheaper than to cover with solid material, the
difference being 5 to 10 times. However. ceating lakes iE for natural reasons not always possible.
particularly in a dry climate as that of the Bolivian Altiplano.
An important aspect, from a cost point of view. is whether it is possible or not to economically re-
cover minerals from the old tailings dams or dumps Many of these old dams and dumps contain
appreciable amounts of metals that can be recovered by today's more sophisticated methods. In this
way the cost of relasmation can be substantially reduced, or carried out with a profiL 'thus COM3BOL
has made agreements with some foreign companies for the reprocessing of old tailings. However, this
requires  at sufficiently strict environmental requirements are incorporated into the lease or joint
venture contct Ibis has not been the case up to now, but steps have recently been taken to guaran-
tee such precautions.
56



In our cstimate above wc have not discounted the possibility of reprocessing the wastc for its remain-
ing mead content. With the present low metal pnces, the economy of such operations are In most
cases questionable, a situation which will of course dhangc if the market improves. Our cost figums
am based on cost experiences fron Sweden and USA (see Appendix IV5). As presented iu Table 4:7,
the reclamation of remaining major tailings dams and iine dumps would involve a cost of approxi-
mately US$ 725 million.  Is possible that some of these remediation objects wlll be attended to
within new joint vente operations or thrugh special reprocessing projects. However, a large paut
will still remain as the responsibility of ct present owner, i.e. primarily the Bolivian state.
Table 4:7. Cost estimate for reclamation of old tailings dams and mine dumps.
MINES                                TONNAGE           COST    TOTAL COST
milion tonnes     US$/t    million US$
TAIL[NGS DAMS:
Comibol mines (continued operations, joint     53       050             26.5
ventures, leasing to cooperatives)
Medium mig                                     10        050             5S.
SUBTOTAL                                      63                         31.5
iMINE DUM  PS:
Conubol mines (continued operations, joint    36          1.00           36.0
ventures, leasing to cooperaivs)
Medium  inn                                    5          1.00            5.0
SUBTOTAL                                      41                         41.0
GRAND TOTAL                                   104                        72.5
3. Dust and gases
In the dry climate of the Andes, abandoned waste dumps often give rise to the spread of waste ma-
tenal through the activity of the frequently strong winds. Another source of dust is duing crushing
and milling of ore in a dcy state, a procedure employed at a couple of heap leaching plants. If not
collected the fine dust may cause pil and inconvenience to the workers on site as wel as to the
sutToundings. lhe hazardous effect .)f the dust depend on its chemical and mineralogical composition,
particle size, concentration ox particles in the air, as well as the conditions and time of exposure. Ihus,
the inhalation of fine crystalline silica (quartz) may cause silicosis. If ore particles reach the respiratory
system they may dissolve whereby toxic elements, as for example lead, pass into the blood sbtam.
Gas emissions are a problem mainly in connection with smelting (see the following chapter).
57



4. Pollution related to pcimary smelts
Ihe non-mining industry of the Altiplano can be divided into two categores, namely process industry
and maning industry. Apart from a large cement factory, located at Viacha not far from L Paz,
the process Industry Is totally dominated by smelting facilities and in this way closely related to the
mining industry. Of the five sate-owned smelters only one, Vinto, is in regular operation. These
smelters are described briefly below. Due to the limited activity in most of these plants, the environ-
mental problems are presenily reticed. However, should this change, problems would certainly
appecr due to the outdated tedhnology in the plants (with Vinto as an exception).
In addition to the five state smelters, there are a number of small private smeltcrs, most of them giving
rise to serious environmental pmhlem.c. One is the Fundici6n Pero, located in the urban pr of Orjro,
causing problems mainly through its emissions of gases containing SO2 and particulates witi arsenic
and lead. It is now being dismantled and moved outside the city. but evidently without change of
technology. Two other plants, situated in the outskirts of El Alto (Hormet and Bustos), are producing
lead metal and trioxide of arsenic, respectively, with very antiquated methods. The work environment
is reported to be very deficient and gas emissions are causing problems to the neighbors (including a
school).
lhe five state-owned smelters are:
a. Vinto. Vinto is a major smelting complex for tin and antimony, located 7 kIm flom Oiro, and in
operation since 1971. The smelter is trating both high-grade (38%) and low-grade (20-25%) tin con-
centrates in a process consisring of roasting, reduction, volailization, tbermal and electrolytic refining.
The insaled annual capacity is about 30,000 tonnes of tin and 6,000 tonnes of antimony. The antimo-
ny smelter is at present rented to a foreign company for the teatment of concentates from abroad.
The previously very deficient environmental conditions are now being improved through German
support and an investment of US$ 53 milion over the time period 1992-1995. By means of these
improvements (installation of a new baghouse filter in the roasting and an electaic precipitatr in
the volatization department), the emions of arsenic trioxide to the atmosphe will decrease to
about 20% of the contents in the concentate, from the previous level of 50-70%. co onding to
about 10.000 tomes/year. The rehabilitation program also involves the building of an arsenic (As203)
plant to produce a saleable product, the installation of a new ventilation system with an electrstatic
precipitator, extension and upgrading of the wasewater treatment plant, and varous measues to pre-
vent diffuse emissions of dust Through the measures implemented, the managers estimated that the
emissions bad been reduced by 80%. The smelter is equipped with 3 stacks of 80 m heght and one
sack of 45 m. No recovery of sulfur dioxide gas (SO2) exists, because there is no maket for sulfuric
acid. Ihis means that the S02 and SO3 emissions are about 1,200 tonnes/year. However, the fuel does
not contribute to thes emissions, after tile introduction, in 1992, of natiurl gas as fuel.
b. Katampa This major lead smelter outside Potosi was constructed in 1984 but has never opera-
ted due to insufficent feed. The rated capacity is 24,000 tly of lead and 200 tly of silver. A techical-
economic feasiiity sudy is presently carried out by a consultant with the purpose of possibly starting
up operations. Ihe evaluation should consider the possible related envionmental consequences of an
operation there.
58



c. La .alca. Tis plant, located about 15 km to te northeast of Potosi and constructed by a Soviet
firm has executed volatilization of tin from low grade concentraes. It was in opertion only for three
years (1982-1984) and the prospects of its reopening seems to be meager. However, the plant will be
offered for a joint ventme by COMIBOL. A recent review by COMIBOL showed that the plant is in
good condition; it only requires overhauling the circuit for gases and eliminating arsenic. A dust
sample taken by the Study Team fro  the iteior of the stack supports this nced, since it showed very
high rnitents of arsenic.
d. Idamays. Tbis is a bismuth smelter, situated in the region of Tupiza, in southern Bolivia, with a
capacity of 600 tly of bismuth metal. It started operations in 1972 but was closed in 1980 due to the
fall in bismuth prices. A minor pilot activity for the production of copper sulphate has occurred during
1991-1992.
e. IMQ. This small plant in Oruro is used for volatilization of low grade tin concentrates and lately,
pilot research for the tramet of lead-antimony concenates from the San josg mine.
5.  Groundwater caminaion
Of the mining areas, only Churo relies on ground water for supply of water to its urban area. his
water is taken from wells at depths of 80-125 meters. The locations of the wells are at distances of 5-
10 km towards the northeast from the city. The groundwater flow is towards the south and southwest.
so the -watr is unlikely to be affctd by possible contamination from the city or from mining and
smelting activities to the south. However, more shallow, hand-made wells in the area of Vinto and in
the valley of Huanui, are said to contain water which is unsuitable for use due to contamination from
mining activities.
Many of the mines are set in high mountains where the prospect of encounteing grundwater is small.
Even in the center of Potosi, COMIBOL drilled holes to depths of more than 60 meters, without
findin water.
F. Special concerns related to alluvial gold mining
As described above, in Part 4, chapter I.C.6, alluvial deposits occur as horizontal blankets or pockets
in sedimentary formations. They usually range from S to 100 metes I width and hundreds of meters
in length. with thickness varying from less than 1 meter up to about 2 meters.
1. Methods of exploitation
The size, form and location of a deposit largely determine the exploitation methods used, which may
include:
a- In river plains, worling the alluvium using bulldozers, backhos, dump trucks, shaking screens
and sluice boxes. For example, in the major deposit of Tipuani Playa, covweng an area of 400 by
3,000 meters, it is estimated that about 5 million 3 of ground have been worked in this way
(Matthews 1988).
59



b. Alluvium prese in river beds is_commonly exploittd through dredging. These operations can
be small scale from barges, with material being sucked from the bottom of the river through tubes
directed by divers. Indusial scale dredging has been carried to some extent in the Tipuani area
but mainly in the Madera River, which forms the frontier with Brazil. In this latter area, 165
dredges, ali Brazi}an owned, were active in September 1992; this was only a fraction of the
thousands of dredges that have been active in previous years (LDEMA 1992). Gold in the Ma-
dera River occurs as accumulations in basal sediments at the 18 main rapids along a river stetch
of 80 km. The semi-consolid  sediments, occurring at depths down to 26 meters, are broken by
a drill and sucked to a dredge for gravity treatment- The waste material is discharged in to the
nver. The total movement of material during 15 years of erploimation has been in the onler of
magnitude of 100-200 milion n3.
c. River terraces. related to present rivers, are exDloited in the TiPuani area as well as allong the
MadCra River (nowadays mainly on tie Brazilian side). The dry sediments are disintegrated by a
water jet stream, the finer materials being moved as a slurry for treatment in sluice boxes for the
collection of a gold-beaing concentrate.
d. Gold in pal nhnnels of older sedimentary formations now exist as scatered erosion rem-
nants above present river courses or as buried deposits covered by younger sedimens. Such depo-
sits are comparatively restricted in size and access is usualy difficult However, the grade may be
very high, up tn one hundred imes or more the quality of the ores descibed above. Exploitation
is usually tbrough shafts and galleries in a similar mannr to that employed in conventional un-
derground mining. The installations are commonly very primitive and extremely unsafe for wor-
kers. The ore is treated in simple sluice boxes and by panning. This type of deposit was ecten-
sively worked in eadier times and is still an important source of gold in the foothills of the Cor-
dillera Oriental.
e. Gold in glacih. deposits on the westen slope of the CordiBera Real has been worked intermit-
tently for cenuies. Thus, the Lago Suches deposit, located at an elevation of 4,600 meters dose
to the Peruvian border. has been exploited along a zone of about 5 KM. with an estimated total
movement of materials of about 1.5 million in3. In the beginning of this centtuy, a foreign com-
pany worked the till by driving tnnels, blasting and then booming the loosened miateral downhill
where it was washed in the sluices (Matthews 1988).
2- Environmental and health impacs
In contrast to hard rock ore deposits of vein type vwth their dominant vertical extensions, the alluvial
deposits usually cover appreciable areas and their exploitation involves moving large quantities of
surface material. Ihis resulLts in changes in landform and the destruction of vegetation. Indirect impacts
include constng roads, felling trees, and pollution from hunman settlements.
Ihe prduct of all the alluvial gold mining operations is a concentrate containing gold. other heavy
minerals and gangue mineals. In order to separate the gold from the rest, the concentrate is invariably
teted with mercr,y t fom an amalgam. Mercury is then hed off into the atmosphere for recu-
peation of the gold. Mh use of retorts to contain the mercury are very seldom used.
60



In the most important exploitation ar  Ttpuani and suroundings, little is know about the impact of
the gold mining activities. A recent study indicates possible effects on human beings (Interamerican
group for research in environmental epidemiology 1990). Ibis study investigated the health of people
living along polluted rivers in a number of L atin American countries. Ihe results unexpectely showed
high trace metal contetMs (mercury in blood) in a group of children living in a 'Low risk" area in
Bolivia, the Runabaque village at the Beni River, about 150 km downstrem from TIpuani. These
*esults may underine the potential risk of mercury poisoning in the area. They also seem to show that
relative hazard of mercury contamination is higher han from otber types of heavy metal contamina-
tion.
A thorough study of conditions along the Madera River was recently completed by a group of scien-
tists working under the auspices of LEDEMA (LIDEMA 1992). The rcseachers concluded that
between 100 and 500 tonns of mercury have been discharged to the nver sinse the lae 1970s, and
thaL most of ttis mercury has been adsorbed to fine solid particles in suspenon. Tley estimated that
in the prcess of recuperating gold, about 6 grams of mercury are emitted for every 1 gram of gold
recovered.
Analysis of fish gave mercury conten¢s that were on average 5-10 times higher than  e values for fish
in uncontaminated areas. Tiis accords with the findings of another recent study that carried out similar
surveys of the Madera River within Brazilian territory (Malm et al. 1990). Analysis of human hair and
unne showed markedly higher values of mercury for men engaged in gold mining activities as com-
pared with other people tested, but stll wnthout exceptionally high concentratons. One reason for this
could be that the Bolivians living in this area rarely eat fish (in coDnrast to their Brazilian neighbors).
IV. OCCUPATIONAL EHEALTH AND SAFETY
A. General aspects
As nted above, in chapter ILF., the subject of wores' bealth and safety does not attract much amten-
tion in Bolivia; the undsding  nd knowledge about such questions among ordinary people are
very restricted the sector institutions are weak. and laws and regulations are often not known or res-
pected. Naturaly enough, this situation also prevails witbin the nining sector. However, the actual
conditions may vary remarkaly between different work places or companies. In general, the larger
companies mantain an appreciably better standard than the small scale operations.
1. Health and safety hazards
The accident rate in Bolivian mines and related faciities is very high; injuries caused by cnisbing are
the most common accidents. Ibe mining sector has far bettr managed repotng and statistcs regard-
ing work accdents than otber industies. so compaisons vwth other industies ae difficulL
The rate of sillcosis among undergound miners has traditionally been very high. A number of studies
during the 1970s and, with support of the WHO, durnng the penod of 1978-82, show an average rate
of silicosis among underground workers of 11%, an extremely high figure. Values from different
61



mines vaned between 3.5 and 22 %, while the rate of silicotubereulosis varied between 1.4 and 4.6 %.
The varintion between differen mines presumably depends on a combination of such ftors as: the
content of silica in the rock; the minng method employed; the degree of efficiency of ventilation; and
the humidity of the mine. he investigated mines were aU COMIBOL mines. Certain measures were
taken but the present situaon is not well known. Ihe major prvate mines have inmoduced customary
international sndards for worker health and safety.
Different toxic chemicals are fquently used in the ore concention processcn. These include cya-
nide, xanffes, acids etc In modem plants, the handling of these substances do not create much
problemL However, specially in the small plants, chemicals are often teated with less care, thus repre-
senting a health risk In tbe mines, fumes from explosives are a main concern. Health risks may occur
particularly in mines with deficient ventilation (for example in the cooperative mines).
The potential poisoning threat posed by the use of mercury in alluvial gold mining, is treated in the
preceding section (Part 4, chapter HLF).
Noise is a problem in the mining industry as we'J as in most other Bolivian industries. Mitigation may
often be costly, whereas the use of hearing protection is mainly a matter of organizaion and workers'
discipline
Most jobs in an average Bolivian mine are physically rying and wearing on the body. Difficult work
postures and intricate work movements create risks for over-load and accidents. As far as opeation
economics permit, inreased mechanization is the only effective solution to this problem.
2. Risk awareness and involved costs
As noted above, in the better mines, the management's general awareness concrning health and safety
issues is generally good. Besides physical improvements, safety measures include: regular monitoring;
the keeping of accident records and statistics; information campaigns; and training courses. Workers
are actively required to wear adequate protective equipment and to respect safety rules. However, it
will be a difficult and long-term mission to adequately raise general awareness about health and safety
among the workforce, even in the bete-managed mie.
In many other min, protective measures and routnes are less developed or bave deteriorated. The
latter situation is the prevailing one in many of the COMIBOL mines. However, the imminent capitali-
zation of many of the mine propertes should offer a good opportunity for greatly improving the situa-
tion.
Work injury prevention is a kind of planning that often pays off even economically. A better working
environment means fewer work injunes and less sickness absentesm. It is a good affair for the per-
son involved, for his employer and for the society in general. These relations are not always well
understood in Bolivia One way of intoducing such an awareness in a company would be through
careful recordiwg and analysis of all health and safety conditions and events, in combination with
training and education of key personnel regarding injuries and their cause. Thrgh better knowledge
and, as a suggestion, an incentive system which makes workers' accidents and health problems more
cstly to the company, a development towards better working environments could be stimulated.
62



B. Industial mining
Mining operations, and specially undergound mining work, present very specific problems for the
wording environment This is particulady true for the Bolivian mines, which often involve work in
narow excavation rooms for the extraction of are fom thin veins. Also, the use of narrow access
galleries often makes ventilation prolematic. These chteristics mk uneconomical the use of any
Lae scale mechanization of the operatons and so consve the use of uditional manual methods
(hand-held drilling, hand loading, timbering for rock reinf s etc.).
The major companies are well aware of health and safety questions. MTis was true for COMIBOL
during the beginning of the 1980s, when an ambitious plan for improving working conditions was
established. Considerable attempts were made to remedy the many serious problems, efforEs which
have since been largely halted due to economic and organizational difficulties.
The main private mining companies are managing worrs' health and safety mats wnth considerable
seriousness. The reason for this appears to be twofold: 1) the introduction of new advanced technology
has requd strict safetY ContI, and the processes employed comprise many built-in measures of
importance for the occupational health and safety; 2) foreign ownership (or part ownership) often
brings with it knowledge and sound procedures from industrialized countries. In fact, these two factos
probably represent the main forces for the improvement of the working environment within the Boli-
vian mining sector. Of particular importance is the second factor, as new foreign ownership may lead
to occupational improvemenots in old installations, as is the case in the several COMSUR mines. One
aspect of foreign participation is the influence of the international public opinion on the behavior of at
least the major companies. Ihis pressure follows tese companies evea abroad, thus helping to com-
pensate for the lack of local awareness.
C   Small scale and cooperative mining
The major part of small scale and cooperative mining is carried out unde very prmitive conditions
witLh few safeguards for miners' health or safety. The work is oflin camed out in old aandoned
mins, without precautions regarding ventlaton, histing, blasting, and rck caving. Ihis causes the
exposure of the miner to extreme hazards.
Ihe nature of the operations, ie. smal1 gmrps of miners excavang more or less at random where
good ore happens to be found, hs as a consequence tat suppor pillars are removed, waste rock is
left in the galleries making access and ventilation diffiault, explosives are used in a careless way etc-
Similar pnmitive conditions are met with in the alluvial gold operations, where the common use of
mercury in the extraction process is an additional health concer.
One of the effects of this work situation is a low life expectancy. Another aspect is the employment of
adolescens or even chdildren in the work. Possible measures for alleviaIting the sitioa are proble-
matic as they neawly always would imply investments in thnical facilities which are not justifiable
from an economic point of view. Advice and training is likewise an intricate matter as most of these
miners are already quite technically experlienced and well informed. Recommendations would often
mean telling the mnin  not to take that risk he will anyhow take in order to eam his living. As argued
in chapter I-C5, the situation is one of social emergency, the obvious solution of which should be an
alternative, more sound, occupationL
63



V. SOCIAL IMPACTS
A. General aspects
Since the arival of te Spaniards in the 16th century, ore exploitation has been the principal economic
activity in Bolivia. For several centuries, exploitation co tated on the production of silver, with a
shift to tin towards the end of the 19th century. From this time onwards, mining was transformed
successively to an industry, with the introduction of industrial exacton methods. In 1952, the main
mines were nationaze under COMIBOL, which became the largest company in the ountry.
The exporation of raw mateials is Boliia's most importan source of foreign exchange; this econcic,
structe makes the county very vulnerable to fluchuans in the prices of raw materials on the inter-
natonal market- Thus. the decease in the price of tin dunng the last decade has caused a dasic
reduction of mine producton and given rise to a social upheaval caused by mine closures and the
consequent unemployment of thousands of workers, plus a generA economic recession.
From the natilization of the mines in 1952 up to 1985. when Bolivia's new economic policy was
introduced COMIBOL played a fundamental role in the social as well as the economic aspects of
Bolivian mining. For example, COMIBOL prvided social infrastructures such as schools and hos-
pitals, and it disguised unemployment with administrative posts. rnis concentration of power gave rise
to nepotism and generAted an excessively large public sector - a situation that has caused major social
and econonic distortions, fomng a myth of prosperity and stability around the nationalized ning
companies.
The massive movement of workers out of the mining sector and into the informal sector is a promi-
nent development of the last decade. Before 1985. COMIBOL employed more than 30,00 workers,
which multiplied with tfhir dependents, constituted about 150.000 people. A few years aftewards,
COMIBOL had only 7,500 employees. Many unemployed miners went to the large cities, while others
moved to the alluvial gold fields of the Amazon basin
Bolivia is today a country of fee mardwt economy. Ibis shift in economic policy and the coming
privafization of COMIBOL are generating social problems that many miners are not equipped to
handle, either individually or collectively. Instead of being part of a pateralistic system where COMI-
BOL mantied a (sometmes ilusory) system of seciml welfare. they DOw find tbemselves salaned -
or often, unemployed - workers in the pnvate sector. Trade uimons have been quick to resort to public
or pnvate violence to generate political pressure. These teions are creating a critical situation tD
which there is no clear solution. However, building up the private sectr in mining could eventually
offer a positive way out of the cycle of unemployment and underemployment, if not a definite solu-
tioL
The informal mining sector, which includes cooperatives and artisanal mining, is becoming more and
more in respect of rate of employment the number of laborers in this sector will continue to increase
even more as COMIBOL begins leasing some of its holdings to cooperatives as part of the privaha-
tion process. The work conditions are primitive and dangerous, and the living conditions very preca-
nous. The cooperafives are seldom prvided with basic services; living is in simple barracks, wate is
often very scarce and the generally poor lifestyle often affects personal cOduct and traditional habits,
as weU. Health nsks and safety hazards are not resticted only to the worker himsdf. They also in-
64



volve his family. which often shares his work and living conditions. This situation constitutes a social
emergency of such magnitude and gravity that it has to be regarded as the most critical aspect of
social problems in today's Bolivian mining.
In very recent times, there have been pockets of socal protest to problems associated with minng. For
example, farmers have been objecing sometimes to perceived problems resulting from their reliance
on water that has been cotaminated by mning (see Appendix IV.7). Also, a few community groups
and nongovermental organzations have protested new mninig investments, such as development of
the Inti Raymi gold mine
B. Effects of mining on Andean socdal structures
The indigenous inhabitants of the Altiplano have sigificantly modified their culture and ways of
living in order to adapt to changing circumstances as Bolivian mining has evolved during the last five
cenmuries. Today, the population of the Altiplano forms part of the genera economy of the country, but
they continue to ecperience important changes as a result of the shifting structue of mimng.
There has traditionally been an intricate net of interrelationships between Andean environmental condi-
tions and Andean culture One of the main effects of mining on the surrounding cultual stucures in
nearby communities and villages is that it has changed the typical values of individual ownership,
experience and commitments to the land. This process began as farmers shifted their main occupation
to mining, and accelerated as these miners were obliged to sell or abandon their land, either temporai-
ly or permanently, in response to changing employment opporunities in the mines. This process has
often caused the break-up of the ccre family. As individual families must sell or abandon their land,
the woman's role changes from farming as a 'compaflea' to pursuing activities in the informal urban
sector. In some cases, this means commuting intO town each day fto wark as a street merhant; other
times, she may move to the city with part of the family.
C. Effects of mining on social structures in the Bolivian Amazon area
There is almost no information about the impacts of alluvial gold mining on social structures in the
Amazon. Sedentary communities of people who are indigenous to the Amazon are relatively small and
few in number. The Study Team found no information about conflicts between these groups and immi-
grants to the area or other impacts on these groups. Most of the people involved in alluvial gold
mining in the Amazon have migrated from other parts of the country. Many of them mc indigenous
peoples from the Andes; the desaiption abovc ef social problems related to the loss of steady employ-
ment in the mining sector would apply here, too. Often these immigrant miners and their families are
living and working in primitive, hazardous conditions.
65



VL REGIONAL IMPACTS
A. Genera aspects
A common argument in discussions about the environmental impact of mining in Bolivia is that most
mining occurs in mountainous areas where there is very little alternative use of resources (i.e. land-
scape and water). Ihis may be true in some cases (if the question of precsrvaion of the natual land-
scape as such is ignored). but in most places there are other competing interests. These 1tt may be
small scale farming, impacts on nearby towns or villages, or the well-being of the very miners (and
their families) themselves. Particularly in the old mining cities, llke Potosi and Omro, both of which
accommodate populations of arund 80,000 inhabints, ther are severe conflicts between industy and
civil life. A particular concern is the fishing lake of Poopo (also important to some bird life), situated
in the Altiplano to the south of Oniro. which is being contaminated by mining operations as weU as
other activities in the region (see below).
A faily typical example of conflicts between mining and farming Is prsented in Appendix IV.7. The
area in question is very dry and farmers have for a long time been using water originating from mines
for irrgation. The present complaints are that pollution has ineased. The reality cauld be that the
present drought has reduced rain water inflow to such a degree that nearly undiluted mine and ARD
waters (pH 3) that are being used for imgation have become aculely toxic. Mine ownes dlaim that
farmers are only abusing te new awareness of envirnmental legislation to get better facilities or
compensation. iis example shows at what at first appears to be a simple dispute, may tur out,
after a closer look, to be a ratber complex case of conflict It also Ilustrates the need for a competent
authority to deal with such incidents.
Another example of conflict, this time concerning the conmination of drinkdng water. is demonstatd
by the aband  MiUuni tailings dam, located to the ntheast of La Paz (Append  IV.8). Tailings
frm mining operations during several decades were allowed to f91 out a broad valley which is also
one of the main water sorces for the city of La Paz. Oxidation and leadcing of the tailings ha-ve
produced water that is high In heavy metals and has a pH as low as 2.9. The water has to be neutra-
lized and cleaned in the Achachicla treatment plant befao it reaches La Paz, at an appreciable cosL
As already mentioned above (Part 4. chapter l[LC). mining is distinguished from many other industrial
operatS in its mandatory localization to the place where the ore deposit happens to occur. Ths often
cases conflicts with other activities which may be dfficult to sclve. A related problem is the uner-
tainty about the locations of any new exploitations. Even if certain predictions regarding the existence
of additional deposits can be made, as to type of deposit and geological environment, ltile can be said
with cerUinty. In fact, the character. size and location of a mineralization are virually unknown
paramets until the deposit has been discovered and investigated The exploration efors needed for
finding a new deposit, In respect of time and resources, vary between very wide limits. and there is
always a component of gambing in such work In consequence with what has been said, it is difficult
to forecast In any detail the extension, character and location of future mining ventues and the implied
environment impacts. However, the folowing general directions may be given:
66
I



* It is to be expected thaL, for the foreseeable future, the focus of conventional mining in Bolivia
will continue to be in the Altiplano and to a large extent in areas of previous miaing activities.
Ihe environmental requirements in connection with such operations are reasonably wel known
and it can be assumed that, with the introduction of new policies and techniques, he problems
can be managed in a satisfactory way. It may even happen that clean-up operations in certain
old mining areas can be combined with continued or reopened activities. It is quite probable
that large bulk mining in open pits will replace underground, seective mining in some aras
* New possible areas for mining in the eastern part of the county (the Precambrian shield)
could present new problems and possible conflicts with farming and other interests. A compa-
rison between the map of potential areas for minin (Fig. 2:3) and the maps of ecological
sensitivity (Fig. 2:6) and nature reserves (Fig.2:5) do not demonstrate any alanning areal coin-
cidence. However, as argued above, the real extent of possible conflicts cannot be evaluated
until at least basic information about a new deposit exists. Exploitation of mineral deposits
within namure reerves should be legally prohibited. In this context, it is important that the
boundaries of natre reserves be clearly defined.
* Alluvial gold mining presents a particular problem tsee below, chapter VLE.). The main activ-
ties are concenwated to the areas indicated in Frg.4:2. Most probably these regions will also
make up the main exploition areas for the next future. However, It cannot be totally excluded
that new deposits will be found in oher pats of the Amazon basin, with the corrsponding
spread of contamination and destruction to new areas. An extmnsive inventory of all preseat
alluvial operations, the outlook for the futu, and the    en     consequences, is an ur-
gent task (see below, Part 6, chapter HLA).
B. Poto6i area (for further detais see Appendix IV.10)
The Potosf area has a long history. being developed as a mining  r  shortly after the arrival of the
Spanirds and the discovery of the immensely rich silver mountan Cezro Rico. The counrysde is a
dry mountainous landscape with deeply cut valleys and elevations varying between 3000 and 5000
meters above sea level (the summit of Cenm Rico stands at 4.794 m). Water iLs scarce and is provided
to the ciy of Potosl frm a number of artflcidal lakes in the mountains to the southesL The city is set
at the northrn foot of the mountain with drainage trugh several small rivers which join to the Alja
Maya river. Mhis latter river flows to the west and ulfimately, with otber tributaies, forms the nver of
Pilcomayo. The lt dewaters towards the Chaco m the sout. Farming is mainly restted to the
more open river valeys.
A major part of the mining acivities in the area are still focused aound the Cerro Rico ( Fig.4:3).
However, the mini  industry has decHned apprciably durng the last 6-7 years. The population of the
city has deaceased considerably and now stnds at about 80,000 persons. COMIBOL formay owns
most of the Cero Rico, with its remaining minral resources. but only exploits its lower parts (Mim
Unificada). Odt  comparively large private min ale located at a distance of 50-80 km from the
city cnter. Two new hewp leaching plants exactn silver by the help of cyanide solutions, have
been constucted in a baren landscape mmedLiately to the south of the Cero Rico. treating old waste
rock and colluvial material from the slopes of the mntainr Due to the recession within the minng
sector many mines (10,000-12,000) are nowadays active within cooperatives exploiting ore in the
67



upper parts of the mountain. Mhe COMIBOL beneficiation plant (Velarde). as well as many other
smal private plants, arc all located witiin. or in the outskirts. of the city.
Most waste water produced within the city goes unhated into the small rivers which join downstm
to form the Alja Mayo niver. Mhis includes the very acid water (pH 2.3), rich in heavy metals, that is
pumped from the Unficada mine with a flow of 3-4 I/s. Ibis water joins with process water from the
plants (heavy metals and reagents) and household sewage water to form a heavily contaminated flow.
Of the plants within the city, only the Velarde plant discharges its waste into a tailings pond (albeit
being in a precarious state). All other solid waste goes to the rives and sueams where it is partly
removed. in water solution or suspension, partly deposited as sediments In the river bed. During the
occasional heavy rains most of the sedimented mateial is flushed out to the main river through the
rather steep water courses.
Sampling or water and bottom sediments were carried out during our visit at several different points
along the Alja Mayo river ( Fig.4:4). Even if these samples were collected mainly to give a general
orientation of the situation, a rather clear geneal picture is given, namely one of very high contents of
heavy metals in the w2te of the river as well as in the bottom sediments. The values in water vary
between (approximately): arsenic 4-13 mgll, cadmium 0.8-1.6 mgll, copper 14-44 mg/I. lead 13-50
mg/i and zinc 120-358 mg/l. This is ten to hundmed times the internationally commonly used norms for
mining effluents. Still 20 km downstream from the citY. where the river passes the newly constructed
municipal hot sprng baths at Tasapaya, the water is heavily polluted. 'The amount of suspended solids,
almost exclusively originating fiom beneficiation plants, is likewise exceedingly high, namely 15-30
g/l where the river leaves the urban area and still 5-10 g/l at Taapaya.
Based on the available figures, fth annual transport of heavy metals in water solution from Potosi into
the nearby valley amounts to more than 30 tonnes of arsenic, 5 tonnes of cadmium, 70 tonnes of
copper, 200 tonnes of lead, 11 <toes of antimony and 1200 tnnes of zinc. An even bigger amount is
probably rAnsportd as suspended solids.
The present precarious environmental situation   the city of Potosi can be summarized in the folow-
ing main points:
- The lack of town plannng and control, allowing concentration plant opeations in the central
parts of.the city.
- The social problem of having tens of thousands of people working un   utmost primitive and
dangerous conditions in undgund  -m.
- The discharge of acid mine water without previous teatment into a river which is running
thmugh an urbanized area
- The free discharge of waste from concentration plants into rivers within the city boundaies.
- The lack of a sewer system, household waste wates being discharged directly into iver cause-
ways within the cdty.
- Ihe heavy pollution of a river system with contamination reaching far away frm the source.
AR of these aspects are obviously unacceptable, both from a sanitary and an enviromental point of
view. However, due to the intimate social coanecdon, it is very difficult to isolate any one of these
problems for separate remediion. The solution will have to be sought in general overall planning and
economic development. Certain foreign companies have studied the possibility of exploiting the upper
parts of the Cerro Rico "- lage scale, open pit mining. However, as yet no detailed planning has been
68



carned ouL One major problem is the esistance among thb population against the removal of part of
their "holy" mountain. Neither would such an opeation be veqY pesonnel intensive, so it would not
solve the unemployment problem. On the other hand, it could restore relative prospenity to the city of
Potosi and open up for the possibilities of resolving, among other things, the evivuonmental problems.
/~~8/
RE-',---
X    If^~~~~
. ~~           ,,                -
o~   \\ '- 
'\,~~~ '  ,e                  .---
Fig. 4:3 Main mine ant processing plants in the Potosi area.
69



Li
EN  EN                 N
;M 7.3
*A cm
Cd OM    Od 0.14
cm 4m    cm M
-ft&m   ft Tim
la=       a O'n
IA         an           Mm MA
C        lu Q=
d GM    ad an
*A am
am                                                              f
as
DM
a. Im
'YA
as km  cm I"
an am  ft m
ft QM   a
am  MR m    E75
cm I"                           pH n
m au                            m am
Am        AM 4m              C"
ad RV
am M              ft no
lb Din
an
Mm ISA
IM
Ca ILS
ft 4"
As 4AD
CA
rb Ia.7
IM             C 22
am
cm 149
Ca W
f'7                                                  ft CLU   .. N.
16 am
SW a    I.Ow                                   J/
J.
Water sample points (mgM               M     Concentralion pleM
Fig. 4.4 Map of Fbtosi aW its immeJiate summdings, deMMS=ing the lecahzatiOn Of the msin
maneral processing plants, sites for water sampUng and results of aWysis for selected elements. All
values, except p1l, in mgfi.
70



C Oruro area (for further details see Appendix IV.9 )
The city of Orunro is set in the Altiplano. a vast high plateau O western Bolivia at an altitude of bet-
ween 3,500 and 4,000 meters above sea level. The northern and central parts of the Altiplano drains
from north to south. Thus, the Lake riticaca. at the border between Peru and Bolivia, is dewatered
towards the south through the Desaguadcro nver, Tlis latter river flows to Lake Poopo in the Depart-
ment of Orumo.
Lake Poopo is endohidc, i e. it has no outflow. It drains an area of 55.000 km2. Ihe mean surface of
the lake is about 2,600 km2 but varies between wide limits during the year as well as between diffe-
rent years. Mbis is due to variation in water inflow, the flat landscape ir. which it is set and the very
shallow depth - on average only 2-3 meters. A smaller lake, Lake Urn, Is situated to the north of
Lake Poopo and connected with the later as an antechamber. In years of Uttle precipitation, this lake
may dry out completely. Average rainfall during fte penod 1980-1990 amounted to 435 mm, with an
annual variation between 220 and 759 mm. Nearly 95% of the loss of water is through evaporation.
The mean annual turnover of the water in the lake is very high (140%), which is more than one hund-
red times higher than that of for example Lke Titicaca. The salinity reaches up to 4%. The very
special properties of the lake makes it an unstable environment with wide fluctmaions also as regards
limnological chaacter (Fisheries Development Limited 1991).
As regards ground water resources, the Altiplano forms an extensive basin of water-bearing sedimen-
tary formations. One of its sub-basins, the Caracollo-OnIrI-Vinto sub-basin, supplies water from
drled weUs to the city of Oruro.
Mining has a very old tradition in the Oruro aea and is stl a major occupation, in spite of the reces-
sion within the sector during recent years ( Fig.4:5 ). The historically most important mine, the San
Jose mine, is located in the very mountain, on the slope of which the town of Oniro Is built However,
the operations in this mine have recently been susperwled due to diiculties in selling the producL
Another major mine in the area is the COMIBOL mine of Huanuni, situated about 50 km to the south-
east of Omro. Herc a rich tin deposit is exploited under somewhat chaotic conditions (30-50% of the
pIoduction is stolen, by workers and intuders). Other mines include the Santa Fe mine about to be
closed, and the Bolivar mine, which will be rehabilitated and reopened shortly tmhugh a joint venure
between COMIBOL and a pnvate parte. About 40 km to the northwest of Cano, the new major
gold mine of Intl Raymi is employing a process of cyanide leaching. Unlke Potosi, the  is no small
scale or cooperative miing within te city of Onm. However. such operons are common in the
HuanuDi area (eating ore fom the upper parts of the deposit or waste from the concentation plant)
and at abandoned mines in the Santa F ad Bolivar areas. The  imo smelter, located about 6 km to
the southeast of Onruo. is the only major tin smelter in the country, teating concentrates fim  Bolivian
as well as other sources
Ihe city of Onuro bas a population of close to 100,000 inhabitants. Apat from the mining activities, a
rather vaned industry exists. Due to the dry climate, water resources are generally scarce. Not so
much, hough. in the city of Omro, as in the mining towns. as for example in Huanuni with 20,000
inhabitants. In such plac  thre are often conflicts between the reqirements of the mining company
and the needs of the civil populauion
71



In&l Raymi   5
Fig. 4:5 lApof die DOno area exhibitigmi   ies xe proesn plai, ndwersmpln
sites. For anaflyilcal results, see ApenIx  19.
72



Water pumped from the different mines in the region is very acid. An exureme example is de water
from the San Josd mine in Oruro, which has a pH as low as 1.2-1.7. Ibis and other mine waters in the
Oniro area are also extremely high in heavy metal conteaL The San Jose water is pumped from the
mine to an exit in the slope of the mountain above the city. From there it is taken in an open channel
to the northem outirts of the city where It is mixed with sewage water and garbage in wide chan-
nels, flowing towards the south in the direction of the Lake Uru-Lake Poopo. However, part of the
water is also infiltrating the ground, causing conrosion on municipal water pipe-linas as well as on
concrete sewage tubes. Ihis sometimes results in water losses as well as the mixing of drinking water
with acid mine water and scwage water. As the piping systems get older, this problem is bound to be
more and more acute. A possible closure of the mine and a cease of pumping would not solve the
problem to any greater extent, as acid water would still emerge though natural flow. A neutralization
of the water with simulaneous precipitation of the heavy metals would be a solution, albeit a costly
one. Obviously, before taking action, detailed studies winl be needeA to define the problem and indi-
cate the options. A complicating fctor is the uncertainty about future minin activities in San JosL.
Waste rock firom mines. as well as tailings, occur extensively in al of the mining areas, located in
impoundments or spread out along slopes and in river beds. This material usually contains high
amounts of pyrite which easily oxidizes and, with water, forms sulfuric aid. The lter leaches out
metals, the result being waters of the same charcter as mine waters. This problem occurs both in the
city of Oniro and in many other pesent, or previous, mining centers.
'ihe Lake Poopo area represet an important ecosystem in the Altiplano and in Bolbvia. Its shallow
depth, the conspicuous variation in its eansion and the high salinity are some of the fa s which
makes it unique. Fish, duck and flamingos are prominent members of the falna. Regarding fish the
only indigenous species in the lake is the karAche (Orestias luteus), but the Argentnean pejerrey has
been introduced with success. Preent fishing Is carded out kom three viages from the easten sbore
of the lake. ITwo of these communities are the last relicts of the Urm Muratos tribe, who originally
lived on reed islands on the lake and still keep their own particular arcbitecture when building their
houses. A sudy made in 1990-91 showed that dose to 500 fshermen were engaged in fishing, landing
about 720 tomes of pejerrey (1990) at a total value of USS 184,000 (fisees Development limited
1991)-
Already in the beginning of the 1980s, fisbermen were complaining about the poor capaues along the
eastem part of the lake, supposedly caused by metal contamination from mining opeatios. 'hs was
investigated by Beveridge (1983). who carred out a study regarding the chemicl composition of
waters, soils, plants and fish from the lake, revealing marked anomalous me  contents in all of these
media Conceng the Analyses of fish, the results showed an increase of most of the heavy metals
with a factor of 5-10 times in comparison with Canadian fisL Fish captured during the last few years
is reported as being much smaller than in previous years and also, in many cases, extemely thin Tbis
is thought to depend on two causes: the collapse of the food supply due to the last years' drought; and
the supply of heavy metals from the mining areas (Fiseies Development Ltmited 1991).
It is obvious that the deicate PoopD ecosystem is seriosy threatened by contaminations from mining
operaons (past and present) as well as by antiopogemic pollution from the city of Oruro. However,
the issue is complex and many of the factors influencing the survival of the Lae are little known. As
remediation can be foreseen to be quite expensive, It is most desirable to urgety carry out the neces-
sary interdiscipinary studies, on which mitigation measures can be based.
73



Minor studies to evaluate mining impacts on lakc Poopo and the city of Onuo have been proposed
for funding under the Enterpise of the Americas pmgram.
D. Quechisla area
The Quechisla mining area is located in the southern part of the easte  cordillera, about half-way
between Potosi and the border with Argentina. Within a radius of 50 km. there are about 50 different
minng opwratons. mast of them small. The landscape is mountainous and desert-like. with a pr#cipita-
tion of only 100-200 mm per year. Water is thus very scarce, most of the possible sources being
surface wate. The altitude varies between 3.000 and 5,500 meters. Drainage is towards the east
(northen area) and towards the south (southern area).
Up to a decade ago, several medium-sized mines were operating in the area. Today only the San
Vicente mine, located in the southern part of the ama, is in regular operation. Several previous COMI-
BOL mines. as for example Tasna. Chorolque, and the Chocaya group. have been leased to small
miners or cooperatives. The operations can be divided into producers of concentates of tin, zic-lead-
silver, antmony, bismuth, tungsten, and gold, or a combination of these commodities. While San
Vicente produces zinc-silver, the smnll miners exploit mainly for tin and (more recenly) gold- A
bismuth smelter in Telamayo was closed in 1990 due to lack of proflltbihty. Anodher smelter in the
region, the Bnal Hnos antimony plant in Tupiza, is opeting at a capacity of only 50%.
The long and extensive mining acivities in the area have had a substntial Impact an the environmert
Large waste heaps am left (totaUlly 8-10 million tonnes) without much care and are now eroded durng
rAis and leached of their heavy metals (acid rck drainage). Mbis is for example the case In Telamayo,
once a veiy busy mining center, producing a vadety of concenates and bismuth metal. The leftover
old tailings, originating from Animas (Table 3:6) and other sources. are now being naturally leached,
producing elevated contents of arsenic and lead in wates and sediments as far as 20 km dovwstream
the Telamayo river.
The still active "major" mine, San Vicente (350 td, produces mine wat, wbich mixed with sewage,
contamin  the local nver. 500 meters downstream from the mine, the water contains the extremely
high concentaions of 6 mg/l cadmium, 31 mg/l copper. 1 mg/I nickel, and 580 mgfl zinc. The ore
from the mine is anspoted by truck I5 km to the Vetias plant Tne tailings from ibis plant goes
directly into the Vetillas river, the latter fiorming a furow in old waste, 0.5-5 m deep and stretching
more than 5 km downsream. A new tailings dam has been prepared but is not used due to the cost of
pumping the sludge. This is. anyhow, not an optimal soludon, as it implies taking the wast to an
uncontaminmated small valley without taking any umeaes concernng the old waste in the nver bed.
In summary it may be said that the Quecbisla area exhibits very similar environmentad problems as the
Omro and Potosi area. The man difference would be tat there are no large popaion centers and the
total lack of altenatives to mining. A particular feature is the extremely low precipitation and the
general relianc on rivers and dams as sources of wate. The widespread polluto fMm mining activi-
ties puts toe use of such sources in danger. The possible  aminaton of agricultal land along the
rivers futher downs=em is another concern.
74



E. Bolivian Amazon Basin
Alluvial gold mining is a regional problem as it affects large tracts of land. In spite of the present low
pnce of gold on the wodd mat, extensive exploitation is going on. mainly, along the Tipuani and
adjoining rivers. Data on alluvial gold reserves in Bolivia are poorly knownx but the qunttity is
thought to be very large, at least regarding lower grade deposits. The main potential reserve include:
(1) palaeochannels and recent placer deposits along the drainages of the Tipuani and adjoining rivers,
within a region covering about 20.000 km2; (2) old niver courses of the Madera River, close to the
Brazilian border, thought to contin as much gold as that having produced in the area hitherto; and (3)
glacial deposits in the norteastemn Altiplano. An increase of the gold pnce, improvement of ihastruc-
ture, and development of extraction technology could make exploitation of these reserves economically
viable and so cause new gold nrshes. Also, it cannot be excluded that gold-bearing alluvial deposits
wi be discovered in otber parts of the Bolivian Amazon area
A major part of the prescet gold production stems from operations run be "coopeativcs", these la=er
being organized in a manne similar to that described in Part 4, chapter LC.5. A majority of the
workers are the so-called "voluntarios", who are only very informally linked to the operations and
work for a "paton" in retun for he right tD excavate for their own gain during a number of hours per
weeL the total workforce can be counted in tens of thousads of individuals. The large dredges active
in the norheastern border ar  ate owned and managed from the Brazilian side.
An obvious envnvnmental concern associated with alluvial gold mining is the direct impact on nature.
The very character of alluvial gold operations involves large scale effects on the landscape thrugh the
dredging of river beds, divemsions of rivers, the removal of river terraces, deforestation. etc In these
works, no attention is paid to environmental aspects and government authorities exercise no control
whatsoever. AnoNt± factor, with pobably even more smous conqnces, is the contaminon of
waters and soils witfi mercury. Iis on-going poisoning affects tbe mines themselves directly as wel
as indirectly and represents a long-term tieat to the Amazon cosystm  (see Part 4, chapter E]:F).
75



PART 5: ASSESSMENT OF THlE INDUSTRIAL (MANUFACTURING)
SECTOR
L INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE
A. Hbtorical perspective
The mu ng Industry In Bolivia experenced a prolonged recession duing the 1980s. In 1991,
tie toul production volume was still only 76% of that in the peak year of 1978. However, a clear
increase in production has occurred since the exteme low in 1985 of 59% of the 1978 level. The
positive development of the manufacturing industry since 1986 is demonstrated by annial growth
figures higher ftan the GNP growth rate for almost every year of this period. For example, in 1991,
the industry growth was 6.6% as compared to a GNP grwth of 4.1%. TME same year, the contibution
w the GNP by the manufacng industry was 13.72%. which co,'d be compared with the mean value
for Latn Amrenca. about 25%. The most expansive branch of the inukstry has been the food industry,
rising from a share of 39% in the peiod 1972-79 to a share of 56% in 1986-90, while the textile
industry has declined during the same period.
he role of the manufactuing industry in generating export income to the country is fairly modest but
inreasin. While total exports icreased from US$ 638 million in 1986 to 927 million USS in 1990,
the share of the manufacturing Industry duig that period grew firom 17 to 32%. Among the most
succesful products on dhe exporL maikts during the l;st few years were sugar soya flour, textles and
leather products.
The Bolivian manuf ing ndustry is mainly artisanal. In 1987, private industry comprised some
12,700 entpises with a tota of 49,000 employees, which means that the average work-force was
fewer than 4 persons per manufacting unit. Thee are only some 1,300-1.500 entpdss having more
thar 5 employees, wbich could tus be considered as true "industri". Among the bigger inuste
the dominant ones are oil refineries, cement plants. oher chemical Industes, food and textile in-
dustries. As much as 83% of the indus=ial aded value and 82% of the industial employment are
geerated in the dements of La Paz. Sat Cru and Cochbaba-
B. Major categories of Industrial activity
Ihem are about nine prominent categries of idustria manufacug in Bolivia, as listed below. ihe
Study Team visited examples of all these different activities. The emphasis was on larger operations
that are likly to have a more significant impact in terms of both the ambient environme  and occupa-
tional health. However, many of the issues stdied lso arise in smaler opemtions, dhough on a more
limited scale. The number of employees in the plats visited by the Study Team ranged from 10-650
employees; in most cases, the team concnte on plants having betwean 50 and 250 employees.
76



1. Metallurgical industries
Ihe primary smelters we dealt with in Part 4 of this report, dLapr IILEA4. In addition, there are
severa smaller metlurgical plants smelting scrap metal to produce such items as valves and fitrings
in bronze, brass, aluminum and cast  Ihis industry mainly prduces for the local market, as do the
imr casting planms manufauring equipment for the mining industry. Another activity in this sector is
the recycling of spent lead battries and tin scrap (e.g. Hormet SA in La Paz) with production of lead
tubes, reconstituted lead bateries and welding metal.
Some of these small-scale industries play an important role in the recovery and recycling of valuable
materals, thereby conlrbuting to the replacement of imported products by domesdc production.
2. Metal and metal finishing industries
Tiis branch is rather small as far as the total output is concerned, although a grat number of very
small enterprises are involved in the sector, particularly in El Alto. The growth of this sector is pro-
bably hampered by the very high degree of recycling of spent metalc spare parts on the local markets
in El Alto and similar popular makets.
3. Industrial mineras
Ibis sector includes the indstries tha manufact  cemn, asbestos cement and glass. These branches
usualy extract the raw materials firm mines or quarries of their own: limestone, silica and gypsum
(cement industry). crocidollte and yellow asbestos (asbestos cement industry) and silica, dolomite and
calcite (glass industry). One manufatr  of asbestos cemnct products (Duralit) uses imported aw
matedals.
The cement and the gla  industries have presenty entere.J into a very expansive phase to meet the
growing demrand For example, of the four cemnt plants in the cunn  (i Chuquisaca, Cochabamba.
La Paz and Tarija) at least one is cuTently Implementing a production increase of more than three
times. Iiis wil probably satisfy the domestic demand for cement, esimated at 600.000-700,000
tonslyear at least for a few years to come. Also the glass boale mafamurer. Vidriolux Ltda. m
Cochabamba. is currently implementing an expansion project to inrease daily productio from 40 to
70 tons, with the aim of exporting (to Pau) abomt 50% of the future production. Ibis is possible sinc
the company can meet the high product quality requirements set by the intmatonal soft drink pro-
ducers.
Tne industry based on domestic asbestos is very smal scale and does not seem to have any potenal
for expansion, mainy due to the fiuhity of the low-grade mineral deposits in Alto Chapare Today,
only 2-3 of the previously more than 15 asbestos quames in tLt area are in operation, and the pros-
pects for the future are deemed very gloomy. For example, an asbestos concenton plant built im
Cochabamba (belonging to CORDECO) has never been in operation, except for some pilot scale ns
77



4. Petoleum industry
The petroleum industry in Bolivia is completely domnated by the state company Yacimientos Petro-
liferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB), which was created in 1936 and given the mission to explore.
exploit, refine and distribute the hydrocarbon resources of Bolivia. The curent production of cmde oil
and natural gas. expressed in oil equivalents, was 120.000 barrels/day in 1990 and had increased
slightly to 130,000 barrels/day in 1991. This total production achieved by YPFB and its subcontractors
can be divided into 30,000 barels/day of oil and 530 million cubic feet/day of gas.
Mhe latter is utilized in the following way: 41% are exported (exclusively to Argentina); 35% ame
remijected into the oil-beaing formations; 7% are sold on the domestdc market; and 4.3% are con-
sumed intenally by YPFB. Ihe oil produced Is refined in the three YPFB-owned refineries, one in
Cochabamba (cap. 27,000 barsld), one in Santa Cmz (cap. 15.000 barrels/d) and a small one in
Sucre (cap. 3,000 barresd).
The oil and gas production fields are located in the central and southen part of the country, just to the
cast of the Eastern Cordillera. Twelve cil pipe-lines and 8 gas pipe-lines (3,790 and 2,430 km
inlength. respectively) tansport the hydrocarbons to the refineies and/or to the industrial consumers
and to the points of export An oil pipe-line connects the central oil fields with the port of Arica in
Chile, but currently no crude oil is exported, since production is in balance with domestic consurp-
tionI However, due to the light charcter of the crude, the production of some heavier products. such
as diesel oil, does not cover the internal demand. hberefore, diesel oil is imported, mainly through
Aica to cover the existing small deficit On the other hand, gas is currently exported to Argentina
(about 200 milion cubic feet/day), and a new gas pipe-line to Puerto Su, for export to Brazil, is
planned.
The main operations in the refineries are distillation ir order to fractionate the cude, catalytic reforma-
tion to obtain gasolines with high octane numbr, and refining of the, heavy fractions to produce lubri-
can  (1.000 - 1.200 barlsday). The final products are gasoline for cars and aircfts. jet fuel, liquid
propane and butane, kerosene, diesel oil, fuel oil and lubricants for ose in engines and industry. As an
auxiiawy product, electrical power is generated in over-sized gas turines (in Santa Cruz).
Prospectng for new oil reserves has been limited in the past, but after a rece legislative change,
several inenational oil companies are become active in prospecting, drilling and production of oil.
while YPFB cntinues to opeate the rfining and distribution systems.
5. Chemical industry
Althougb this sector is fairly restricted in Bolivia as far as tbe total number of enterprises or the total
production value are concerned, it covers a great variety of activities including production of base
chemicals, explosives, soaps and detergents, dyes, paints and pharmcuticals. The sector also indudes
some recycling, for exmple recycling of waste lubricant oils and man ing of various finished
plastic and rubber products. The chemical industries are mainly concentrated to La Paz - El Alto, wilh
some presence also in Cochabamba and Santa Cruz.
78



Among the larger units in this sector, in addition to the pharmaceutical and plastic  aactimug
plants in the La Paz region. the explosives manufactUrer "FANEXA" (partly owned by COMIBOL)
and the soap and detergent producer'"QUIMBOL", both in Cochabamba, are noteworthy. The former
runs at reduced capacty due to the declining market for explosives in the mining sector, while the
latter faces increasingly tough competition from imported products sold by large transnational compa-
nxies.
6. Leather tanning and shoe industry
This is traditionally an important sector in Bolivia. The tannig industry was iceasingly successful
on the export market during the 1980s with an expat figure of more than 17 million US$ in 1989.
`here are many medium-sized and small units, mainly located in Cochabamba, but also present in La
Paz and Santa Cruz The couny's biggcst shoe mantfacturer. 'Manatca" is among t1x 20 or so Lan-
neries and shoe factories located in the Cochabamba region.
7. Textile industry
The textile industry was the second largest manufaing sector (aftRr food industry) in Bolivia in the
1970s. but has progressivey lost its importance. It resented less than 8% of the total manufactuing
value in 1990.
The traditional wool and coton industry has declined at the expense of syntetic fibers, a change
which has, however, resulted in a strong recovery of export sales, amounting to a 25% shre of the
total of exported manufactured goods in 1990. Ihe highest caoentrafion of textilc plants is in La Paz,
but the industry is also well established in Santa Cruz and Cochabamba. and with a few units in Oru-
ro.
8. Paper industry
Paper and carton mnufactuing is a very small sector in Bolivia, with only one or a few small mills
located in each of the departments of La Paz, Codabamba and Santa Czuz All these units use re-
cycled paper, waste fibers andlor imported pulp as raw mateials. Te associated paper converting.
gmphics and prinng indutry consists of many medium-ized or small units, mainly concentated in
La Paz
9. Food industry
The dominating position of tis sector within the m    sector has continued to increase. both
with regard to its total value and to number of enterpriss and total employment. However, the Boli-
vian food industry is predommiany proding for te local market, its export share still being as low
as about 10% in 1990, although derivatives of soya seem to have been very expansive on the export
markets during the last fiw years.
79



The bigger units wittin the sector include; the edible oil plants (at least two of which, SAO" and
"MO", are implementing important expansion projects); the sugar mills; the distillries; the brew-
erics; and a yeast and food facuty (in La Paz). Several mcdium-sized or big units are encountered in
the sub-sectors slaughter-houses, milk-product factores, soft-drink bottling plants and cereal proessig
plants-
The big factcies processing soya, sunflower and cotton gains, as well as sugar cane are mainly lo-
cated in the department of Santa Cruz, although a large refinery for edible oil operates in Cochabanba.
All major cities have at least one brewery, one or several boaling plants for soft drinks all one to
several slaughter-houses and meat-packing andVor otber caming plants.
Many of the private modern food-processig factories have adopted the best available inte onal
technology, while there are still several older units. e.g. in the sugar mill and the slaughter-house sub-
sectors, usmg obsolete and very wasteful tehnology. This is particularly true for the mui cipal-owned
slaughter-houses and state-owned sugar mills.
10. Misceilaneous
The nine industrial sectors discussed above are all characteized by operations that cause some degree
of en enal impact or considerable hazards with regard to occupational health and safety. In
addition, the mg  industry comprses a variety of other activities whose oprations have
reatively mimor cavironmental impacts. In Bolivia, these sub-sectors indude clothing factories, saw-
mills and wood-procsg (eg. funtre) factoies, which are qmute important sectors with regam to
the number of enterpnses and the employment offered. Other low-polluting and normaly very small-
scale operations of some impornce in Bolivia awe found within the ceramic industry, the manfac-
trng of machinery, elecal appliances, nstuments, etc.
IIL POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTMMUTlONAL FRAMEWORK
A. Economic/legul reform and the Industr  sector
The New Economic Policy of 1985 also appiBes to the imdustial sector in Boivia, as it does to the
mning sectr. his poicy aims to promote fiee maket and competition; joint ventures and iinial
reconversion of obsolete operations antended to faciitate technology transfer and in othcr ways
modernize the systm  Margnal operations are no longer to be protected and state interventionism and
protectiosm have been eliminated almost completely. Incentives have been redirectd eliminating
preferential low rate cedit and focusing on incenives for innovation.
Most restictions on exports have been eliminated and a unifoxm tariff system on imports has been put
in place. The national strategy is to allow market allocaions to develop v4th less Interference from the
governmenL The new economic poicy specially favored non-ftadtional expo, such as leather goods
and agro-based produ. The new Law of Investment, enacted in 1990, stmngly encourages foreign
investment The law establshes a clear and stable set of rules to allow repatriaon of profits, capital
and interes, dividends and royalties, liberated exchange rate and tansfer of technology.
80



B. Industry and environnent
1. Waler
Bolivia's municipalites exercise varying degrees of control over urban water quality, often through
delegated administative entities, as discussed previously in Part 3. chapter m of this report
Municipal efforts are sometimes supplemented by the Regional Development Corporations' Direc-
toates for Sanitation, which focus primarily oa rural areas.
The Ministry of Urban Affairs has not implemented its 1985 Regulation for Disposal of Industral
Waste into Bodies of Waler. Further discussion of this regilation appears in Part 3, chapter V.E above
and Part 3, dchpter ITLD below.
2.  Oher envimental media and categories of acamiants
Apart fron some rather basic solid waste collection and disposal procedures in urban areas, Bolivia
has little in the way of legal requirements or functioning progams to manage enviromnental quality
other than the activities regading water summanzed above.
C. Responsible government institutions
TMe roles of the maim national, local and regional instiuons that have been involved with environ-
mental matwrs relating to indusry was discussed in Part 3. chapter EL The other key institution is the
'Ministry of Expotation and Economic Competitiveness (MECE).
MECEs mandate is to encourage industrial growth and development; this implicitly includes authority
to regulate. conhal prevent and monitor pollution caused by industry. Thus, in the past, MECE has
prepared some regulations on envirnmental management, such as concerning the emssions produced
by vehicles that run on diesel fu*l.
MECE is now preparing a draft decree, to be pomulgated by the Presiden, to create the Bolivian
Institmui of Naoms and Quality (IBNORCA). This would be a private institution, with MECE repre-
sented on its executive committee. IBNORCA would be in charge of:
- regulating the quality of products;
- issuing permits regarding quality of products;
- regulating     ics of packaging. measurements, etc.;
prping sads to control environmental quality related to the industry (water, sodl and
air); and
- registering qualifed test laborataoies.
MECE expec this institution to take the lead on all environment aspects related to the industial
sector. IBNORCA would prepare proposed standards and MECE would then enact then through
ministerial resolution. MECE expects SENMA to participate in some of the technical commitees to be
created within EBNORCA. Beyond this, it is not yet clear how IBNORCA would fit within the larger
81



institutional context
From 1954-85, the predecessor agency to MECE maintained an industry register in arder to build a
data ba  to help implement certain requirements. However, the register was not kept up tu daft after
introduction of the new, more liberal nanional economic policy in 1985, and the GOB has decided to
eliminate this register altogether.
Instead, MECE administs a Register of Commerce and Corpoations, all companies inrported in
Bolivia must register themselves. MECE would be incoporang to the same procedure what is called
a Individual Corporative Register (Registro Unico Empresarial), that would be a section to obain
sectoral information regarding the existing industry in Bolivia, in order to perform ex-post facto eva-
luations of the ministry's policy.
There is no forMal requireme   that induSties register with either the National Chamber of Indusry
or the department chambers, although they are expected to do so (although this depends largely on
the ability of the Chambers to attzact new members). The Chambers have been playing a very impor-
tant role within the process to control industrial pollution. The National Chmber has created a Com-
miUee of Environmental Affais that works with SENMA on preparing the new environmental quality
xegulation.
DL    ENVIRONNTAL CONCERNS (for further details see Appendix IV.1 i)
A.    General aspects
MTe manufacturng industry. as defined for the purpose of this repmt, basicanly incudes all industria
actvities in Bolivia except (a) mining and concentrtion of metal ores, (b) exploitation of alluvia gold
deposits with the subsequent prxduction of gold bulion. and (c) smelting or fuming of base metls in
Prmary smelters. all activities that are discassed in Part 4 of the present reporL Thus, the "manufactu-
ring industy" covers a very wide range of indil activitie  carded oct at widely difent scales.
having various influences on the sustailability of natural resources, and caudng a vaiety of envirn-
mental changes and/or impacts.
Unlike the mining industry. the manufacturing industry is not by definition consuming non-rnnewable
naurmal resources. Some sectos, such as the mineral-based induy (cementL asbestos, glass) and the
petroleum industry do rely upon non-renewable natual resources, but other secto  use renewable
resources as dir main raw material This is particularly tue for the agro-based and foresby-based
industies. Furthermore, several industrial operations are focusing on the recyding of various kinds of
waste mateals in order to produce useful produc, thereby actively contrbuting to a sustainable
management of scarce resources.
Thus, the manufacturing industry exhibits a whole range of pracices when it comes to the responsible
and sustainable handling of raw mateials, frm recovery anid recycling to a desffuctive use. Howevecr,
almost all sectors contribute to the depletion of fossil energy soures and to conminton of water.
air and soil duing the tansformaton of raw materials In  funished produc
82



As pointed out before, the manufacturing industry in Bolivia is small, both compared to die mining
industry in the country and to the manufactuing idustry in most other countries in Lain Ameica.
This obviously means that the environmental impacts caused by this industry, tk  as a whole, should
be comparatively much smaller than those of the mining sect. Since the geater part of the Bolivian
industry transforms agro-based, organic materials into products, its contaminants and environmenal
impacts awe diffen from those caused by the mining sector. Also, it Is often difficult to separate the
environmental impacts caused by indusmial wastes frmm those caused by municipal sewage, beca
the contamnants are similar (organic substances. nutrients), and most industies are locatd in densely
populated areas. Nevertteless, one can identify the following enviromnental conces related to the
Bolivian manunfing indusny
Consumption of non-renewable energy and non-susainable use of other natural resources
- Fossil fuels
- Raw matcrial base non-sustinable
- Concentration of industry to areas with scarce wate resources
a  Land degradation
- Inmdequately plnned transport systems
- Siting in densely populated areas
- Los of recreational areas, green belts, etc.
* Waste water effluents
- Contaning high organic load (BOD)
- Containing slowly degradable organic substances
- Containing nutrients
- Containing tDxic substances
- Grondwate contaminanon
a  Solid wast
- Inadequte disposal practices
- Lack of recovery of usable residues
- Hazardous wases
o Air pollution
- Dust
- Noxious gases (SO2, NO1, CO. CFC)
- Extemal noise
Unlike the mining sector, the manufacturing Industry in Bolivia does not yet seem to have caused any
major large-scale or regionai negative impact on the natual environenL However. there are rlready
several examples of local or medium-scale detrimental impacts on ecosystems, soi]s and the human
environment, indluding large fish-kills, impairment of agricultural activities and seve nutiane to
man thee  have been caused by emissions of toxic substances, dust, bad odor or noise.
Ther have been to daft relaively few in-depth investigations made on the  inemta efficts of
the Bolivian industry Ibhe aready demonated avse effes, however. clearly jusdfy a coned
attitude towards the sector as a whole. But this concern sbould not hide the fact that at least some sub-
sectos of the Bolivian industry obviously have beneficial impact on the environment, whm they
83



actively contribute to a more rational reutilzaon of msidues and recycling of wastes. A quite com-
mon observation. during the many iterviews made with Bolivian industry managers, was that the
general awareness and knowledge about environmental issues was fairly well developed. Although
some commendable initiatives towards environmental protection measures were noted in several cases.
the missing link in many other cases tured out to be the lack of clear inc ves or well formulated
rules to stimulate furter steps towards an improved environmentL
B. Use of land and nstural resources
1. Siting of industrial plants
The most fundamental requirement in order to achieve a rational udlization of natural resources and to
minimnizc the environmental impact of an industial plant is to locate it on an appropriate site. Unlike
the mining industry and crude oil production, which have to be located where the meserves ame, a
manufacturing facility usually has several options for siting. Provided raw materials are available
within a reasonable distance, energy and water supply is adequate, a trwanspt system and a recipient
for waste water discharges are available, and the market for products is within reasonable reach, the
exact siting of a new productlon unit must be made with due consideraion of the environmental as-
pects. In countnes actively promoting sound environmental management, usually the local or regional
authorities give assistance to industry by pmviding the necessary infirastructure to opmnize the over-all
land-use planning and to minimize adverse environmental effects.
Such rbonal planning of industry siting with a consequent segregation of indusial and urban areas is
a relatively recent - and still limited - phenomenon in Bolivia. TIe best example of a well-function-
ing industial estate can be tan from Santa C:rz, vwere about 750 hectes northeast of the ur-
baized area of the city were reserved for industial development (Flg3:l). At the end of 1989, about
250 hectares were developed and almost 150 industries installed. Mhe municipality has provided the
necessary infrastructure (roads, water and energy supply, sewer systm and storm water collectors) and
is operating an effluent teatment plant (FEig5:2). which serves the industries esabished in the area, as
well as the domestic effluents from nearby areas. Ihe main problem in Sant Cuz is at the segrega-
tion of industrial and urbanized areas is far fom complete. Many older. but also several new, in-
dustrial plants are located witn the city, causing vanous types of interferences with the densely
populated areas, with the urban sewage tent plant and with the ground water quaity. Furth -
more. many of the most poUuting industrial installations in the Santa Cruz area are located close to the
banks of the nearby river Pirai (or its tributaries) and these industies (sugar mills, tanneries, distillery.
milk product factory, etc.) discharge their waste waters more or less directy ino the river, often with-
out any adequate effluent tretment, sometimes cing severe conflicts with the alternative uses of the
river (e.g. recreation, fishing, irrigation).
Simil initiatives to set up Industrial estats, although much less developed, have been takpn in El
Alto, Cochabamba and Orno. In El Alto the designation of an industrial reserve has been mad with-
out any guamatee of land nghts and without provision of basic services such as electlcity, water
supply or sewer systm The induistal estate in Cocabamba is located very far from the city in an
area vwth very poor road access. The provi5ion of basic services by the ai mcapahity seems to be very
lmited. Very few industries are located in this area the most conspicuous example being the explo-
sives factory "FANIEXA. The case of Onuo must 21so be characteried as a very balflerted de-
velopment of an indxstrial estt. However, along the road to Vno, her Is  concentration of
84



REFERENCIAS
hiAREA ADMINISTRMAlV
/h,,   _ LAGUNA DE OXIACION
/E 13 :a ETAPA
2a ETAPA
3m ETAPA
AREA URBANAr
Fig. 5:1 The industial park of Santa Cruz Source: SAGUAPAC
industries in the Zone of Guajara, relatively segregated kom urban areas. and where some basc lnfra-
sucture has been provided.
The most deficient situaion, wvth regard to industry sitmg, is the one existing in La Paz, were several
big, poutmng indusaes am located in the middle of densely nhabited reas. Since there is vially no
space available fir these industies to build individual effluent treatment plants or othe wse treat-
ment systems, the urbanized area, including the main river Choqueyapu, is beavily contaminated by
industnial waste, particay during the dy season. ThL e is presently no coDedive system for
85



LO 4,32haa
L3 0.74         112 071          IU  OM5
wnaerb           enaemb.          tXicos
L4 1.80
facuMmUv
L5 432
puilmento
Fig. 5:2    Layout of fte waste wate reatment plant at the industrial park of Sana Cuz. SouMe:
SAGUAPAC
reatment of the domesfic and/or industral effluents in La Paz, nor for teamen of the heavily con-
tminated river water. This sintation causes an unacceptably high rsk in fte agricultural communites
located downstram the city, where the river water is used for irrigation of various crops Including
vegetables. Both the high degree of bacteal and viral conumination of the river watrr and its con-
tents of persistent. toxic mateials (e.g. heavy metals and other industrial wastes) constitutes a hazard
not only for the people living and working in the area, but also for the consumers of the agricultural
products.
There are, however, examples In Bolivia of a responsible and cooperatve management of the potential
conflict between industry and agricultr. For example, in Cochabamba, some industries (e.g. the
"Taqiiiae brewery and the soap and detergent factory "QUI1MBOL") distribute their waste waters, in
some cases after pre-treatment and control, to farmer associations for use as a safe irrigation water.
Ihe same is tre for the combined domestic and industial effluents from the city of Cochabamba.
which after final teatment in a collective treatment plant ram by SEMAPA are distWibuted to a farming
community.
86



2. Linkage to raw material base
Alithough the environmental problems encountered in the production of raw materials used by industry
are not a centrl topic of this report, it might be perlinent to briefly discuss this indirect relation bet-
ween Industry and raw material supply. It is obvious that the markets and hence th structure of the
agro-based industry to a cerutain extent is a stering factor for the structuring of the agricultural and
husbandry sectors. For example, when the textile industry delines, the demand for cotton decreases.
and conversely, when the production of soya derivatives increases, more land is being used for soya
cultivation. Since different crops and different husbandry practices cause quite diffeet degrees of
pressure on soils and varying degrees of overall environmental impact (use of pesticides, impoverish-
ment of soils, deforestation, etc.), the governmeat miglht consider ways to promote a development
towards Improved sustsinability of the natural resources used as rw materials for industry. Ihis could
be achieved e.g. by aeating special incentives for those industies relying upon raw materials that
cause minimal envirmmental degradation. Induslries which are already practicing advanced recyclig
as a part of their business philosophy (paper mills using waste paper, glass fictories using recycled
bottles, battery factories using spent lead batteries, hydraulic oil manufacturers refining waste oils,
factories cornverting e.g. slaughter-house wastes into useful products, etc.) could be given speci
advantages, such as tax reductions or reduced treatment or disposal costs (when charged by the muni-
cipality) for their residual wastes, as compared to the general cost level.
3.  Eny consumption
ne petroleum and gas industry is obviously consumig a non-renewable natural resource. Nevertbe
less, it may seem reasonable to cover the intenal demand of hydrocarbons by domestic production,
especially since the Bolivian crude oil has an excellent qualty (very low in sulphur (0%Y) nitrogen,
heavy metals and aromatics) which limits the local and regional air polltion. On the other hand. the
burning of fossl fuels always adds to the global inrease of carbon dioxide.
The question is to what extent the goverment should try to infence the choice of energy sous
for example by sterng the energy consumon from the use of fossil fuls towards usc of rtoewable
energy. e.g. hydroelectric power or bioenergy.
At the present stage, the Bolvian industry takes a very small fraction of the total energy consumption
in the country (only a few percent), and thefe, any modification of the industys energy consump-
tion patten will only have a very minor significance. Many industal plants have reoendy swibhed
from fuel-il to natual gas as energy source for their boilers. At least some of the cemet plants
currently use natural gas as fuel for the kin, and the big "Vinlow smelter recently switcbed to gas. The
oil refiny In P almasolaSa   Cruz. genaes electricity in 3 gas turbines fuelled with refinery gas
and natural gas, and the surplus electricity (abou 2/3) is distributed to the regiona grid.
As a whoe, the YPFB is covering its cnergy demand in the refinere at 80% by nal gas and is
currely changing thre diesel oil motors in pumping stations to natual gas fuelled mots.
4. Watr supply
A considerable part of the Bolivian industry is located in regions where water Is a very scarce com-
modity. Such is the siution in La Paz - El Alto and in Cocabamba, were te water scarcity was
87



aggrvated during fte extended drought at the end of the 1980s and the first two years of the 1990s.
In these areas, there is a clear conflict between industry. agriculture and domestic coasuras, (inclu-
ding recreational users). with respect to tic use of the limited water resource. Some of the highly
water-consuming industries in La Paz, working in the fields of textile, leaIber tanmng. yeast and beer
production, do not seem to have tan any decisve measures to reduce water conumpon (although
the brewery reported that they went down from 15 m3/m3 to the still relatively high lWiel of 6 m31/m of
beer). The water beig supplied by the public enterprise "SAMAPA" was rpored 'o cost 0.9 Bs/m3, a
prce which does not seem to present a sufficiently slong incentive to save water.
The public wate enterprise in Cochabamba. SEMAPA  is using a system of prgressive water tariffs
(see Table 5: 1), but it is possible that the progression is not steep enough to effectively promote water
saving.
Table 5:1 Water taiffs in use by SEMAPA for industdal customers.
| Cmsomsption m'~   |0-10     13-50     | 51-100    101-150    121-250    251400
Taiffs, Bs        | 21.73
Trifs Bsimi3                  096        1.07       1.15       122        130
For otilization of the sewer, an additional charge of 65% is added.
An attractive feature of the watr management systm In Codcabamb is that all waste water, of urban
and industrial origin, that Is colleted in the centl part of the ity is anlzcd, after prper tatment,
in an iTigation scheme. A remaining problem in Cochabamba is that large aeas in the westen and
easter parts of the city are not covered by the wat management scheme. This was repoted to be
due to unesolved confIlcts on jurisdiction over the areas in question with neighboring municipalities.
A grwing problem in ihese zones without a regular, municipal water supply, as well as in  cities
with deficient collective water supply systems. is the dliberate and unconled pumping of water
from the ground water table. Ibis practice, together with the commonly practced disposal of excrea
and industrial wastes in underground septic chambers or in wells, will sooner or later result in both
quantitative and qualitative degradation of the restricted grou'd water resource.
There is still no general Inventory available regarding the groundwater resources iL lolivia However,
as a result of an iemational aid project, several local studies h-ave been performed in the noren
part of Altiplano, in the srroundings of Oruro. in the valleys of Cochabamba and Tarija, and in the
cities of Santa Cruz and Trnidad. Only the city of Santa Cruz is primarily supplied with water from
the grundwater table, while the cities of Onrro and Codhabamba are partially relying upon supply
from the aquifs.
The public water enterpises in Cochabamba and Santa Cruz (SEMAPA and SAGUAPAC) usually
extract ground water fom very deep vells (up to 300 m), where the ground water quaity still is satisfactory.
88



C.   Land degradation
Unlike the case in the mining sector, land degradation is generally a minor problem in relation to the
manufacturin indhstry. Imparment of scenery or degradaion of the local environment and amenitis
is mainly a rsult of improper sitng of industries or establishment of wast dumps in densely popula-
ted areas. L.and degmadation due to erosion or transformaton of tie nanul drainage patterns, which
may result In flooding and creation of permanent swamps, is mainly a resut of poor planning before
constcion of acces roads or other infatruture. Ite vcry extnsive ppe-line system for tansport
of oil and gas. built and operated by YPFB. may be a potential cause for land degradation. However.
no detailed information has been gathered on this issue. New pipe-line prjects will anyhow be subject
to thorough enviromental impact msessments, caried out acording to innatonal standards. A
special case of land degadaion, or rather river bank degadaton due to stoMe and gravel exttaction
orom the river bed has been identfied in Cochabamba- Here, a municipality-owned asphalt plant has
extracted material from the bed and banks of the Chaquimaya stream, causing severe erosion of the
banks with nsks of land-slides and damage to nearby buildings. The situation bas resulted in an acute
conflict betwecn the local community and the municipality, which is now considering a resiting of the
activity.
D. Envtronmental poilution
1. Wastewater effluents
a.                     T I he main contaminants in mixed industrial effluens can easily be grouped
in the following categories. In the overview, the conventional measurng pameters awe indicated as
vel as the potential effects in the receiving rver:
CATEGORY OF CONTAMI-  PARAMER                               P0IENTLAL ERFECTS
NANT
Sspended solids               S.S, Twbidity                 May desroy dte habits of ben-
- orgamic                     Volaie S S.                   thic fian anacnbic scdimcni3
- inorganic                   Non-volaile SS.
Dissolved inrganic substanc   Electr. cductivity,           May change the ionic composito
(salts)                       T.S minus S5.                 of the waer
Acids and alki                pH                            Toxic effects m extme cas
Heat                          Tempeaur                      Harmful to coldwa-adapted
Colored matrial               Color                          May change the light diaste of
Nuuicnts                      Pwt, Ntot                      Canse eutrphication
Dissolved organic substances  BODs COD                       Deplete the dissolved oxygen
Oil and grease                Spec. atalysis                Reduce eoxygenaion aesthetic
effects
Toxic substances              Bioassay, LC50                 Harmfil to aquatic life
89



In addition to the group parameters indicated above, a ccrtain mumber of specific chemical analyses are
normally caried out, depending on the ongin of the effluents and on the various alternative uses of the
receiving water. These may include specilic ions such as sodium, calcium, magnesium, chlonde. fluo-
nde and boron (if the receiving water is used for imgation), vanous heavy metals and other toxic
substances such as ammonium. cyanide and phenols (if the river waler is used as drinking war suP-
ply. as livestock water and/or for aquaculre or fishing). In the laner case, the effluents are usually
also subject to microbiological acalyses and - if needed - to specific determination of substances
having a strong odor or taste.
The exact design of the analytical program to be conducted on an industrial effluent must, of course,
be made with due regard to the Indusmial process and to the enviromental (quality) goals established
for the receiving water body. It Is always of the greates importance to take the effluent samples
during periods of normal (or represenaive) producuion in the industinal plant and, at the same tume.
carefully measure the volume flow of the effluent It is also imporant to know the acal production
level. This is necessary to be able to calculate the amounts of the various contminats being dis-
charged. in kg/day and/or in kghon of produrtL The potential impact of the effluent on the receiving
water is best estimated on the basis of the total quantitative load per unit time, calculated for each
major (and relevant) type of contaminanL The quanitative load per unit product is used to compare
the technical and waste management standard of the investigated planm wth hat of oe plants having
a similar production or with plants using the *Best Available Technology" within the contry.
b. Water quality and effluent standas The Ministry of Urban Affairs and Housing in Bolivia issued,
in 1990, a "Regulation of Dischbarges of Industria Wastes into Wat Bodies", which stipulates the
required water quality in 5 classes of receivnug water bodies as well as the madimum admissible
cocentarn ons of vanous contamants in industial effluents being discharged ito water bodies (see
Table 5:2). The legal status of this regulation is unclear, and it appears that no general classification of
Bolivian rivers as to their pnncipal uses has still been made Even if the published values can be used
as general guidelines, it is perfinent to mnke a few comments:
- The enforcement of effluent limits and water quiy standards of this kind and the contol of
compliance with the lmits requ  a very lage momtoag effort to be  rrd out by highly
qualified sampling staff and analytical Liboatoes (tbese may he authorized by the government).
It is very questionable if the priorizaon of this system is the best use of limited resources. A
more efficint way of achieving an improved water quality in rivers and fulfillin the environ-
mental goals that the govemnment (SENMA) has to establish for differe  regions and river basins
of the country, would be to promote the choice of en ally suitable technology as well as
a sound enviDromental management and shop-keeping in indusry. his goes hand in hand with
promotion of resoure-saving (low waste geneion) and teatmn  of residual waste according to
the best envonmental practice.
90



Table 5:2. Bolivian watr quality standards and industrial effluent limits (Reglamento sobre lanza-
miento de desechos industriales en cumpos de agua, 1990). Example of water quality stan-
dards for Class BK; waters destined to public water supply after conventional treatment
and to the preservation of flora and fauna and to drinking water for animals.
PARAMEIE                                EFFL                 WATER, CLASS B
Temperataur C                               40
pH                                         4.5-10            5.5-9.5
Dissolved oxygen                             -               609G saL
MPNI100 mL                                100.000            <10.000
Color UC                                   1.000             <100
Susp. solids mg/i                           1.0'             1.50D
Oil and grease zngfl                        20               1.0
BOD5mgI                                     300              <10
COD mg/n                                    500
Asenic mgfl                                 1.0              0.05
Barium migl                                 10.0             2.0
Boron mg/i                                  5.0              0.5
Cadmium mg/I                                1.0              0.2
Copper mg/                                  5.0              2.0
Chromium (VI) mg/i                          5.0              0.1
Lead ng/I                                   2.0              0.1
McuIy mg/                                   0.05             0.01
Selenium mg/I                               0.5              0.05
Cyanide mg/I                                1.0              0.1
Phenols mg/                                 0.1              0.005
Detergerts mg/I                             5.0              1.0
Total nitgen (NO3) mgA                      100              60
zinc mg/I                                    50              15
Manganese mg/i                               10              2.0
Irn mgIl                                     10              2.0
Calcium mg/l                                700              400
Magnesium Mg                                50D              300
Fluoride mg/I                                                2 .
Chloride mg/                                5000             700
Sulpha  Wl                                  8000             600
1 Seileable solids
91



- Effluent limits given as highest admissible concentation can easily be counter-preventive,
because it will somctimes be easiest to comply with the limits by diluting the effluent with clean
water. To open up for this possibility goes against the sound requment of reducing water con-
sumption. Reducing water consumption in a plant by water recycling and dosure of systems is
normally the best way to reduce waste and to mke effluent teatment cheaper and more efficient.
As pointed out above, It Is therefore recommended to express discharge limits as highest allow-
able amounts of BOD5, COD5. suspended solids, etc. per day. Based on these quanttative limits,
It is easy to calculate the highest theoretical concentation in the river water at low flow (during
the dry season) and thereby assess whether or not the quality goals for the river are meL 1his wiu
also reduce the need for frequent monitoring of the nver water quality.
- However. If the effluent concentration limits given should bc applied (together with te associ-
ated mles) in a general way, also including discnarges to receiving rivers with very limited capa-
city aow water flow), such as the rivers witin the Altiplano basin and rivers In the La Paz or
Cochabamba regions, it is evident that the numerical values for several parameters are far too
high to provide any real protection to the systems that should be prtected.
- When it comes to quality standards for surface waters, it is extremdy difficult, If not impos-
sible, to estabUsh generalzed lmits (for each class of water uses) at should be applied uniform-
ly over the whole territory. Ihis is patcularly true in a country Bke Bolivia with such a huge
variability in geology, hydrology and biocoenoses. he natual backgrund levels of many para-
meters most certainly vary by up to one magnitude between small mountain streams draining
areas with wide-spread minerzations and large, slow-flowing rivers in the plains. It is therefore
of paramount importance to produce reiable base data regarding the natural levels of the most
important parameters in uncontaminated parts of rivers in the main regions of the country. Based
on this knowledge, the environmental goals could be formulated as bighest allowable increment
in concentration (above the backgound level) for the important parameter rather than as ab-
solute concentrAton limits. It appears rational to adopt a region-specific system when formulating
such environmental goals (n tenrs of maximum increment in  on), because it may be
justified to allow a higher increment in a river belonging to the Amazon basin (provided this
crement does not interfere with any of the legitimae wat uses downsream) than in a river
within the closed Altiplano basn.
- At a closer look at the example given in Table 5:2 of quality standards for Cass B waters it is
obvious that the numerical numbers given for sevral parameters do no guantee full protection
of aquatic flora and faumn It is also evident that aquatic communities living in cold mountain
streams are much more sensitive to various contaminants discharged by man than are com-
mulnties e.g. in trpical rivers with a natural high sediment load. In most oth countries, it is
geneally accepted that the water quality limits neded to presere the aquatic fiora and fauna are
much more stringent than the limits needed to ensure a safe drnking water for humans. Finally,
there is a serious omission in the standards issued for irigation water, since sodium is not in-
cluded. This Ion Is one of the most harmfil elements for soils, if it occurs in high concenation
relative to the concentration of calcium and magnesium.
c. Waste loads frnm Boivii There is an urgent need to improve the water resource
management in Bolivia. This can be clearly inferred from the exremely high pollution load in the
rvers draining areas vith high density of population and industry. The thee biggest and most in-
92



dustrialized cities, La Paz, Santa Cruz and-Cochabamba. are drained by the rivers Choqueyapu. Piral
and Rocba. respectively. In all tese rivers, BOD5 values above 100 mgAl (and ocasionally exceeding
200 mg/I) awe regularly recorded, at least during the dry season. Such BOD levels indicate a very high
loading with organic wast. Fortnately, the affected rivers have a very turbulent flow, ensuring an
effcien: .reawation of the water. This rearoin counteracts the very high oxygen demand of the waste
load so tha the river watr seldom becomes anaerobic with pmducdon of bad smelling hydrogen
sulphide. Anyway, such high pollution load of rivers within populated areas are certainly not In com-
pUance with any reasonable environmental goals.
Since industry and urban areas in most occasons are not segregated, industrial waste waters and urban
sewage are mixed in the rivers, and therefore it is usually impossible to detrmnine to what extent the
industy is responsible for the existing niver pollution. The situation is even more complicated becae
a great part of both domestic and indusial solid waste Is disposed of direciy into the rivers. How-
ever. in various investigations it has been estimated that industry is responsible for between one third
and one half of the total pollution load of nver Choqueyapu.
Table 5:3. Quantitative discharges of organic waste (measured as BOD) to rivers fmrn some In-
dustries in Bolivia. All disdcarges given as Iglday.
TYPE OF INDUSTRY                                BOD5    COMMENTS
Brcwry (snall)                                   120    Individual ed. ucautca
Brewery (big)                                    1500    No u=aml
Yeast factory                                    -1000   NO Reahat
!dk pmduct fctory                                 260     No treatuent
Vegetable oil facry                               740     No tanaea
Distillery                                        76D     150 d1ye2r. lxL trearinent
sugar mill 1                               6.000-45,000    -200 d/year. No troitment
Sugar mill 2                                    16000    -200 dlyear. No treatment
Tanmery                                           500     No tearment
Urban sewage,                                             For cnparison
190 000 inhab Santa Cmz
- before teament                                 4800
- aftr mtnnent                                    60D
93



A more staightforward way of demonstraing the rle of industry as an important polluter of the nvers
is to give a number of examples of measured amounts of BOD5 being discharged fom the plants to
the nearby river (see Table 5:3). The examples given probably represent some of the worst cases in te
country. The industrial branches shown in Table 5:3, together with slaughter houses, petroleum refi-
nenes, chemical plants producing soap and detegents and texfile plants are the most polluting indus-
tries in Bolivia, as far as organic poDution is concened. The wastewater effluents from some of these
industnies contain, in addition, various other contaminants, e.g. chromium. sultides, biocides and dyes
in tannery effluents, solvents and dyes ia texte effluents, persistent hydrocarbons and solvents in
petroleum  efining effluents, and solvents, detergents and various chemical additives in soap and
detergent fwtry effluents. A more detailed account of the wastewa  compostion and the envimn-
mental management in the Bolivian industry is given in Appendix IV.1.
d. Wastewater treatment in Bolivia In spite of the examples given in the previous section, showing
high pollution loads from some Bolivian indusuies, the geneal picture is far from being totally dark
In several cases. quite advanced environmental protection measures have been taken, including tecli-
cally sophisticated wastewater teatment solutions.
An interesting feature is that within the same industrial branch, examples of very different levels of
environmental standard can be found. Whfle some companies do not perform any wastewa  treaument
at al - or only a very prmitive tneatmemt - there are other companies In the same branch, which have
instlled adequate treatment systems that appartly opeate at a satisfactory level. Ibis clearly shows
that there should not be any severe economic constraints to undertake an apprpriate wastewater treat-
ment since the companies in the same branch having done so are still competitive. Based on such
knowledge, SENMA will have a good argument to fowe those companies laggin behind to upgrade
the technological standard of their treamlent systems to the level vhich has been shown by oters in
the same branch to be feasible. As pointed out before, using this iumen. based on technological
standard. may be the most efficent way to achieve an overal envionmenta improvement
A few examples will ilsrt this poizL Fst, four breweries wae studied, and they have
chosen four different soluiions for thcir wastwaters:
1. Lage bwwey with a production of 250 in3 beer/day. No treatment of the watwater, which is
ddy discharged to the neaby river, adding to Its very high poUution load. Ibe BOD5 con-
cenmration of the effluent is 500-1000 mg/I.
2. Small brewery, producing 45  3 beerday. The wastewater is trated in a faidy primitive treat-
ment planI, consisfig of two sedimentation basns (partly deficient) and one stabilization
lagoon. Ihe teated effluent, holding a BOD5 of >400 mg/l is discharged to a nver with multi-
purpose use.
3. Medium-szed brewery aroducing about 100 m3 beedday. The plant has no wastewater treat-
ment system, but the effluent is channeled direty tD an mirgation scheme rmn by a syndicate
of farmers with whom the brewery has signed a long-term conacaa Tbus, the nutri  content
of the eflue  is utlizd and the  are no direct discharges tony river.
4. Medium-sized brewery with producion of 140 m3 beer/day. This company has built a sopisti-
cated wastewater treatment system, consing of lime flocculation folowed by a weE-designed
primary sedimentaion basin, activated sludge treatment with recycing of sludge, secondary
94



sedicentation and two stabilizatioP lagoons in series. From this treatment system, there are no
dischages to any nver. Ihe water which does not evaporatc from the lagoons is used for
irrigation, mninly of gadens. All the sludge is taken care of. some of it is sold as fertilizer.
Second, within the leather tanning sector, seveal plants were investigated Four examples may be
given:
1. Medium-sized tannery. processing about 10 tlday of freh ides with relatively low wat
ccnsumption. No wastewater teatment, except a very pimitive sediment tap. The effluents go
directly to the river. The lack of any effient protective measure was said to be due to lack of
space, since the tannery is locat  in a densely populated area
2. Large tannery (however. the exact production level Is unclear, since three difftrent figures
wexc reported by diffecent managers). Eftluents from soaking go direcly to tme river, while
acid effluents from chromium tanning and alkaline sulfide liquors arm mixed (with probable
formation of hydrogen sulfide) before they go to an aeration tank with short retention time and
then to a sedimentabon basin with deficient design. From here, effluents ar discharged to the
river. It was also reported that the solid waste disposal was out of control by the company
(one of the biggest in Bolivia), but that the waste was probably dumped into (or close to) the
river. However, it was also reported that a new wastewater treatment system was und  study,
including some water xecycling and anaerobic lreatment of some prcess s=rams.
3. Medium-sized tnnery, prcessing 10 tld of fresh and salted hides. All effluents are treatd in
an individual treatment pianL After segregation of acid and alkiie liquors, each stream is
first teatd in two precipitation and s non basins in series (each one witha a volume of
15 ro3), and then in two large stbilizaion lagoons in series. There is no direct effluent TO any
nver, the wastewater either evapoates or percolates imo The ground I was reported that both
the sedimentaion basins and the lagoons are cleaned periodically and all sludges we being
disposed of in a land filn Mime main ptoblems ame a possible overflow of the lagoons during
heavy rains and a possible cntamination of the ground water table by chromium However, no
data eXist to confirm this.
4. Small tannery, pocessing 4 tId of fresh and salted hides, and located in an urbanized area
This company has recently invested US$ 100,000 in a simple, but quite ingenious teaent
planL One third of the alkaine sulphide liquors are rcycled, the remaining part goes to a
sedimentation tank, followed by a unit for catalytic oxidation with manganese and air. About
50% of the acid liquors from chromium tanning are recycled and the remaining part is ratd
with lime to precipitate chromium hydroxide. After pretreatment, the two str     are mixed
and go to a flocculation unit where alum and a polyelectrolyte are added, then to a sedimenta-
tion basin (12 m3) and thereafter to an eration basin with a retention time of 3 days. The final
efflue   are dischwged to the municipal sewer, which conducts the combined wastewats to a
collective tetment plant (a series of stabilization lagoons). from which [he effluents go to a
large irrigation sche. The incenive for building this advanced, individal treamt system
was. first a municipal ordinance probibicng all industrid dischrges directly tD the river. and
secondly the application by the public water enterprise of a system of tadffs for the poUution
load to the collective sewer and teatment facility, which promoted consdable reductions of
the discharges.
95



The last cited example, which is from Cochabamba, clearly shows that it is possible to upgrade tec
cnviWWImItal management in the existing industry and the nver water quality in a city through a
combination of individual and collective solutions, implemented In cooperation between the pxivate
and the public sector. The municipal ordinance requres all industrial opeations in the regulated area
to have sepe wasewater systems for sanitary wastes, rainwater and industr  wastes. Each of the
12 tanneries in central Cochabamba, which were the main targets of the ordnance, had to build an on-
site treatment unit with primary and secondary treatmenL This process was oompleted for 6 tanneries
in the fist 6 months and for the other six in the next 6 months, according to SEMAPA Inspectoms
from tfhis enterprise tale a sample at each tnnaery at a random time each week. If violatons of tbe
stipulated maximum discbarges (established on an individual basis) are discovered, SEMAPA works
with the company to resolve the problem. If repeated violations occr, the compamies have to pay fines
calculated in relation to the amount of exceedanc of the given limits. This fine can be 8 times or
more higher than the usual monthly service charge fom SEMAPA. If a company does not pay the
tlne, or does not correct its violauions, SEMAPA shuts off access to the sewer system and the compa-
ny cannot continue operating.
Although this system is reported to work well in general, there still seems to be at least occasional
"undetected" violations of the prohibition to discharge raw tannery effluents to river Rocha. One such
case was observed by the study team in the beginning of February 1993. when a tannery within the
regulated zone discharged 7 kghour of BODs and 53 kgthour of COD. Another problem is that there
are several tanneies - and many other industies - located oatside the cenhtal part of Cochabamba,
covered with a complete sewer system The warwarer treatment system of those idust    in the
usir of Cochabamba, has a very variable stnd, and many of these plants still contibute lagely
to the contamination of the main river Rocha. Fixing tis prbem will require resolving the jurisdic-
tional reisputes between Cochabamba and neighboring local governments, as well as providing plan-
ning, education and thnical solutions.
In the city of Santa Cruz, a collective wasewater treatment system was planned and implemented for a
great part of the idustry, pior to its instlation Most of the about 150 industries installed in the
industial est  NE of the city dischage dthir industrial vastwaters to the treatment plant shoDW  in
Figure 5:2. This plant consists of two anarbic lagoons, ane facultaive lagoon and two polshing
lagoons, altogether with a surface area of 11.8 hectar. A separate lagoon (0.35 ha) was built for the
purpose of teaing toxic waste to be ansported to tbe plant by road-tnker However. this unit is
curently not in operation. The Influent to the treatment faclity (1,500-2,500 m3lday) holds a BODs
level of 600-3,200 mg/l (mean value 1,600 mg/A), a COD value of 3,100 mgnl as an average, is rich in
oil and grease (300 mg/l). based on data from 1989. Mhe efficiency of the treatmnent system in e-
ducing BOD has always been superior of 95%. resulting In BOD, values in the efuent to the river of
17-24 mg/l. The main problmcs encountered in this oollective tetment faclity Is the obstxcion of
the equipment by grease and the inaease in chromium levels in the two fis lagoons, after the instal-
lation, in 1990, of a tannery in the industrial estate. The increasing cbmmium levels may cause
damage to the miaoganms m the lagoons. So far. none of the industies atacbed to the treatment
system Pctce an! pretreatment of tleir effluents. However, the observed problems may fore
SAGUAPAC (in charge of the facilty) to require such pntreatment by industries producing hamfl
wastes.
As pointed out earlier, thee exist in Santa Cruz a great number of industries, some of them very lage,
which have no - or only very rudimentary - wastewater teatment These contne to pollue the va-
rious steam  as well as the main nver in the river Pai basin Since the conflicts with alternative
96



water uses are obvious. and since massive fish kills have been observed duing the sugar prduction
campaigns, thcre is an urgent need to promote the installation of adequate wastewater treatment (either
individual or. in some cases. collective solutions) in these industies.
However. the most alaming deficiencies in industrial wastewater tetment are those encomunted in
the industries located in the northem parts of La Paz. Most of these, quite large plants have no waste-
water treament whatsoever. Several satdies have contemplated various solutions to the problem. There
are at least three arguments in favor of a solution Includling the consnixtlon of a collective keatment
facility for all the industial wastwaters and urban sewage beng  anspored by River Choqueyapu to
a place just downsueam of the city:
(1) Using the river as the main collector, and at the same ime as a very efficient unatural" oxida-
tion ditch means tha great deal of the degradation of the organic waste has aleady takcen place
when the wastewater arrives at the treatment plant
(2) There is very limited space inside the city to build individual, on-site treatment systms.
(3) A collective tnent for urban and industrial waste might be the cheapest overall solution.
provided an unconventional treatmet system is designed focung on the elimination of patho-
genic microrganisms and paasites so that the effluents will be safe for use in inigalioo of crops.
This solution will, however, also require the impl ion of a water-saving program in all
mdusties (e.g. promoted by a sharp Incease in pdces for indus     wate) and pretreatment of
industrial wastewaters in order to reduce or eliminate heavy metals and other hazardous sub-
stances.
What argues against a collective treatment facility downstam La Paz Is, of corse, the nuisance
caused by the transportation of all wastewaters in an open channel though the whole city. Ihe con-
stant rnaeaion of the vastewater during Its transport In the very turbule  River Cboqueyapn is a
clear advantage. Tn spite of the extremely high oxygen demand of the river water, the dissolved oxy-
gen level never falls below zero and so does ot form bad-smelling ydren suiphide (except in
limited sections where the river flows in a tunnel). Furth  studies are needed to find the ultimate,
most convenient solution of this acue problem.
Finally. a few comments to the wstwaer treatment issues in the petroleumn indtstry. The two major
petroleum refinenes, Palmasola and Vane Hermoso, have instaled relatively complex wastewater
Ieatment facilities. Ihe wastewater from Palmasola (690 m3lday) goes first to an equalization basin
and then to a flotation unit for oil separation. Ibe searated oil is std partly in a tank and partly in
two large oil sludge lagoons, from where some 30% of the oil is repoted to be recycled back to the
refinery. Efforts are being made to increase the amount of recycled oiL After the oil sepmaration, fte
stll oil-conaing wastewater is teated in two stabiion lagoos vnth a retenion tme of 1-2
weeks. From here, the effluent goes to a smanl ditch wbich empties inlo Rio GCande. A regiuar, week-
ly effluent monitoring was said to be undertak, but Informain on was received only from a grab
sample of the outgoing effluenL At the time of sampling the discharge was about 140 kg/day of COD
and about 50 kg/day of oil and gease. Part of these conaminan  will have been degraded before te
wastew:ter reaches the river.
At the ValUe Hermoso refinery, two paralel treatment systems, working alternatively, are instaled
From a prmary sedimentation and oil separation basin oi is recovered a-ad recyded to the refinery,
97



either direcly or after steam sepoa  of sludge if necessary. Ihe wastewater (with a reported flow
of 410 m3lday) then goes to a regular flotation unit for fiuther oil separation and from there to two
stabilization lagoons containing a dense vegetation of water hyacinths. Ihe waler hyacinths were used
to absorb heavy metals and they were removed once a year and dumped on a land fill. Tie effluents
were reponted to be used in an expeimental irrigaion scheme. Accoding to some monitoring results
repored, the concetration of hydrocarbons in the effluents is only 5-7 mg/I. However, at a later check
made by te study team in a canal leading from the refiney to one of the tnbutaries of River Rocha,
the following amounts of contaminants were recordet Flow: 2000 m3%ay, BOD,: 550 kg/d; COD:
1.600 kgld; volatile (orgamc) solids: 800 kgld. It is not clear if the total amount of organic material
determined in this sample originates from the refinwry, but it appears that there is a discharge to the
river system. lt should be remembered that their results were based on a single grab sample, and
therefore, not necessarily representative for the average situation.
Ihe wastewater treatment practiced at the oil production sites has not been assessed, because no oil
well could be visited due to weat  conditions. It was, however, reported at no special treatment is
done of the drilling mud. which may contain vatious chemical additives. As a general rule, it is impor-
tant to avoid any direct discharge of ground water from the formation to nearby river This formation
water is usually extremely saline and may contain high concentrations of hydrocarbons as wel as
drilling mud chemicals. A gas production site was visited where the water, with a rported sodium
chloride content of 15,000 mg/I, was conducted to a 1 m deep lagoon without any outleL Ihus, the
water evaporated and/or percola  into the ground.
2. Solid waste
As discussed in Part 3, chapter V, although there is a regulation on solid waste management, imple-
mentation of its requiments is very deficient. The responsible municipal units have usually not been
able to establish a comprhensive and systematic system of household and urban waste collection,
tansport and disposal, incuding plans or strategies to avoid or reuse/recycle the produced waste
material. These instittiona/administrative failings wiUl be illustted in the following descrptions of
the present waste management policies in the cities of Cochabambs and El Alto.
In CochaSbanba, the municipal "Deparamento para Limpieza y Recoleccion de Residuos Solidosm is
rsponsible for garbage collection and final disposal at a dumping site about 8 km outside the city.
There is no sorting or separaou of the was, neiter at the collecon nor at the dump, except that
chemical wastes from tanneries are deposited at a difernt site. Even medical wastes are not segre-
gated but considered as part of general solid waste materal. Ihe only form of recling that occus, is
done by some poor people livg close to the disposal site and collectig garbage for varous uses. The
city does not seem to be awae of any risks or problems for human health that could ais from  this
site. The city collects garbage every day from 55 central collectton points as well as from the steets,
houses, markets, schools and frm some iduste (including hospitals and clnics). The garbage
trucks often lack technical service and maintenance and there is not enough staff to cope with the
growing waste amount. Tbe city hzs a tractor to compact the waste piles, which are daily covered by a
15 cm thick soil layer. Of the total of 170 tons of daily disposed solid waste, about 10-20 tons are
collected by private services that pick-up wastes fmm industries (lie tanneries, but also hotels), which
do not have a special pick-up arangement with municipality. It is obvious that the preset disposal
system does not address the poSsibility of waste treatment designed to reuse or recycle
98



valuable raw materials nor does it ensure a long-term and enviromentally safe disposal of all the solid
wastes prduced by households, commerce and industry.
Ihe sitation regarding waste disposal in El Alto looks quite similar. Here, garbage from the [own is
collected twice a week by presenty 9 pnvate carriers ("micro empresas") and aasported to one of the
two open disposal sites. There is no waste classification or sepamtion between domestic, commercial
and industijal waste, so that the final deposit Is composed of a mixtur of various types of materials.
Although no distinction Is mad between household and Industrial solid waste, the "Deprtnamento de
Saneanuento Urbano". at Mhe municipality of El Alto, has established different rates for their collection
and disposal. Besides poor people living in the suonading of the disposal sites, the municipality has
organized some knd of recollectioo, which means that about 20 different groups, cach with about 20
individuals, are charged with the sorting of various valuable materials (e.g. glass, metals, plastic,
bones) from the 70 tons of daily disposed domestic waste. Again, tere are no particular measures or
precautions taken against the formation and infiltaion or toxic components into soil, surface and
groundwater, or the development of explosive gas mixtures. However, it has to be mentioned, that a
third disposal site for solids wastes is studied with the help of the "Fondo Nacional del Desarollo
Regional" (FNDR) and with international assistance (Japan. Germany), called "Servicios de barrio.
recolecciones y transporte y disposicion final de residuos solidos". including also an environmental
impact assessmenL
From these observations. the following preliminary conclusions may be drawn with regard to a rapid
and effective improvement of the present waste disposal system in Bolivia:
3 increasing public awareness by information on and provision of a systematic collection net-
work. e.g. containers designed to separate valuable raw matera from the gatbage
- central egistaton (preferably at SENMA) of the type. property, site and amount of solid
wastes producd in the country (inventoy)
* reporting and coordination of all activities (industial, commercial or domestic) generating,
collecting, tansporting. treating (reuse) or disposn hazardous waste mateial, in order to
build up safe waste management instruments on a long-term base (tatment/disposa strategie,
licensing)
a careful planning, design and realization of all new disposal sites for both domestic and indus-
trial residues, according to international standards
* priority listing of old waste disposal sites (wild Saumps") reiring urgent remedial measures
e support of the development of recycing teChtnolo'Y to recovcr valuablc raw material and
energy from solid waste
* creation of awarding systems and incentives for good householdlng practices with regard to
low-waste production process
As an Immediate measure to reduce the risk of any long-term contamination of drinkng water re-
sources by leaching cbemicals from uncontrolled waste dumps, the careless disposal of noxious resi-
duals from various industrial precesses together with rather harmless and inert domestic waste mate-
99



rials has to be stopped. Hazardous waste shoud be disposed of only at specifically designed and
continuously monitored land-fill sites, with no contact between the percolate and groundwater.
3.  Hazardous vaste
In Bolivia. there is no clear definition yet for this ype of waste. but it usually includes all residual
matezial which could be noxious, environmentally hazardous, explosive, inflammable or cause infec-
tious diseases. due its charactmistics or volume. For these substances. It is highly recom-
mendabldmandatory to keep the whole tanst chain fom the ongin until final disposal,un   a
strict surveillance; this is sometmes referred to as "cradle-to-grave management.-
Hazardous wastes may be liquid or solid and include the following examples:
- oil waste
- solvent waste
- paint and varnish waste
- glue waste
- strong acids or alkalies
- cadmium contminated waste
- mey conaminated waste
-waste rich in antimony, arenic, barium, berylum, lead. cobalt, copper, chromium. nickel,
selenium, silver, thalium, tin, vanadium and zinc
- cyanide containing waste
- PCB-containing waste
- pesticides coaining waste
- waste from laboratories
These special waste materials shoald in any case be collected, e-)treated and disposed separately, U
order to ensure technical safeguarding. elimnation and long-term controL In indusalized counies, it
is obligatory by law that the one producing hazardous waste has the responsibility for handing  nd
safe disposal. All pdvate firms engaged in the management of spcial (industrial) waste havc to get a
license fist fm  the cmepndng waste regulation aInthity (municipality).
At present. no waste classification system  ists In Bolivia For many m ing industres it
seems to be common practice to get rid of thir hazardous wastes by simply charging the municipal or
prvate carriers, without any fiurter care about their final fate and disposal. If the induswy will rEmain
without any clear guideines, which defne the hazard poentia of their wast and how to Drse valu-
ables or to stabilizelneutalize and dispo  It safety, then the curent practice of unntrolled waste
disposa wili continue. creating Innumerable sources of a long-tern chemical  nmination of the
envronmeni It is indicative of the weakness of the exisatng knowledge about the ral dimensions of
the countys waste dsps. that even SENMA has no information whatoever concerning the dif-
ferent categories. amount and final destination of hazardou redues produced.
It has to be mentioned here, thal some of the visited actoies seemed tD havc succeeded in doing
some kind of pioneer work with regard to a careful householding and management of energy and
materials (see Appendix IV.ll).
100



The collection and dismantlement of old lead batteries and the consequent use of a11 reusable lead
parts to build-up aws ones, is a good example to demonstrate how to save non-renewable resources, to
avoid the emergence of hazadous waste and to apply cheap and easily available raw materials, all at
the same time. Another example is the collection of spent lubricant oils and the subsequent reforma-
tion of this material to produce hydraulic oils.
4. Air pollution
Tbe mnufactuing industry in BoUvia is not a big contributor to air pollution, with one major excep-
tion, the cement industry. In addition, there are some minor sources, mainly of a local concem. Emis-
sions of the classical industial air pollutants, sulphur dioxide (SO). nitrogen oxides (NOQ) and other
oxidants ane fairly Insignificant on a quantitative basis. Besides the small volume of the Bolivian
industry, which results in small total emissions of NO, the absence of SO2 emissions is a result of fte
increasing use of natural gas for heating. steam production, etc. Ihe limited quantity of fuel oil still in
use is furemor practically fre from sulphur.
The cement plants in Bolivia have, for a long time. emitted huge amounts of dust One of the two
plants studied, "SOBOCE' in Viacha, did not install any protective measure until 1984. Prior to this
year. the annuial dust emissions might have been over 20,000 tons. After the installation of an electro-
static precipitator, the production has increased, and the present emission seems to be in the range of
9.000-10,000 tonnyear. The cement plant in Cochatamba, "COBOCE", opeated during 17 years
without any dust emission control system. After the installation, in 1989. of a baghouse filter, the
emissions were reported to be I t/hour, coresponding to about 7.000 tomdyear. The above indicated
rmission figures are uncetain, however, since no monitoring is carried out.
It should, of course, be an absolute requirement that a cement plant shald be equipped with an effl-
cicnt dust cmission contrl system. Whis is also an obvious means of raw material saving. Ihe envron-
menta impact of large, silicacontaining dust emissions fmn a 50 m stack is not only local, but
creates regional niwsance for the affected population (disturbance of respiatoy orga, accumulation
of dirt) and inteferes with agricultural activities
'COBOCE7 is currently increasing its pnrducuion capacity fom 300 tld to 1,000 t/d and reported that
t-hey will also expand themission control sytm  However, no envnntl impact ament
has been camed out to support the expansion project.
Other industries causig atmospheric pollution are those  tting malodorous substaces, e.g. tanneries
(hydrogen sulfide and other bad smelling substances),sugar mills, distilleries, edible oil faacoris
slaughter houses and a plant producing bone-flour. Mast of these emissions are merely causing nui-
sance in the close surundings of the industrial installations. In some cases, particularly when the
industries are located cose to residental awas, the problem has been considered as serdous. Ibis was
thc case in Cochbamba. where the concentration of tanneries in the suthem pat of the central city
caused such a degree of disturbance, thal the municipality deided to take resolute steps to remedy the
situaiion (see above).
Another case In Codhbamba, where a severe conflict has arisen between industry and the local popu-
lation is related to the asphalt plant "Chaquinaya", which is owned by the municipality. Ihe air pollu-
tion (dust and noxious gases containing polyaromatic hydrocarbons) in the surroundings has resulted in
101



strong protess from the local population, and the municipality is now considering a zesiting of the
planL
The petroleum refineies ane emitting fairly high amoun  of hydrocarbons to the atmosphere, but the
total quantites are poorly known. In addition, the rfinery in VaUe Hermoso emits various solvents
(firfural - 27 litersld; methylethylketone - I banreld; and toluene - 1 barrelld). TIose emissions pro-
bably only have a local impact within the industrial area.
It may also be pertent to mention that the air polution caused by petroleum products, e.g. gasoline,
is kept at a low level due to the excellent quality of the crude produced in the country and to the
process used in the refineries (in particular in Palmasola). In the lattr refinery, no tetraethyl-ead is
added to the car gasoline, which in stead holds high levels of benzene. The refinery in Valle Hermoso
adds 0.3 cm3/gallon of tetraethyl-lead to regular gasoline, and 1.3 cm'Iga:lon to the premium gasoine.
Ihe emission of lead by car exhausts In urbn  areas, particelarly in Santa Cruz, is thWeore insignifi-
canL Since a large part of the domestically used diesel must be imported, and since this often holds a
low quality, the urban air pollution caused by buses and trucks remains a considerable problem.
Extena industrial noise does not seem to be a major problem in Bolina, although some sources may
cause local nuisance, e.g. cement and glass factories, oil refneries, textile plants. This problem is
aggravated by the Improper siting of many industries within residential areas, but the number of com-
plaints from neighbos seems to be low.
5. Groundwater contamination
Generally speaking, the degree of groundwater contaminon In Bolivia Is poorly known, because of
the limited amount of investigations regarding the contents of iuusta and other contaminants in
goundwater samples. As a result of an internaonal aid prqect, a data bankc on the mineral composi-
tIon of groundwater in the Cochabamba and some other regions has been estabhlish at the GEOBOL
office In Cochabamba. However. conenations of organic mateil (COD, color. oil), bacta ad
inorganic comintant (ammona, chromium, other metals) are normally not included in the data sets.
It can therefore only be speculated that tere is at least a consderable risk of groundwater conamina-
ton in areas where industrial wasewats are disposed of io underound cbambers and wens, or
into stabilization lagoons built on permeable ground, where infiltration occurs. Ibis kind of wastewater
disposal is quite common in the cties of Santa Cruz (outside the industrial estate), Cochabamba and El
Alw.
6.  Potential for disasters
Among the vaious industries surveyed, the bigger units involved in high-risk operatons, an have
safety planning and emergency organizations of a high standard. Ihe explosive factxy FANXA",
located in the industial estae of Cochabamba, can be cited as an example of excellent emergency
. Ewac unit operation is canied out in a separate building, surrunded by high walls mae
of stone and earth The whole plant is equpped with potection against lighting and buildings where
high-risk operations are camed out have floors protected against static electricity. Other examples of
good emergency planning are YPFB's petroleum refineries, where all tanks are equipped with safety
walls made of eartnh Ihere is also a sophisticad alarm system for accidental spills and a wdll-orga-
102!



nized fire protecon brigade. A similar high standard emergency set-up was obserV  iu the edible oil
industy, where the use of large amiunts of hexane in the extaction process presents parficular risks.
In smaller industries, the use and stoage of high-risk ceicals and/or gases was quite often made
without any specal safety precautions: no special spill collction systems, no sepa  storage for the
most hazardous chemicals, and no appropnate emergency orgaion or taining of the staff In case
of fiLre or explosion, even the smaller plants, located in densely popultd areas might cause consi-
derale damage in the surroundings. It Is therefore  omme hat the competnt auity should
conduct regular checks of the emergency organzation and fire protection equipment in all industies
belonging to the high-risk category.
IV. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
A. General aspects
As is the case in the mining sector, the working enviroment within Bolivia's indusal sector shows
great variabons from satisactory to unacceptable. In the bigger companies and in the modem plants,
which usually have adopted a sophisticated process technology with a high degree of automatic pro-
cess control, the working environment has a "built-in" high standar  Ihc managers of these compa-
nies, using imported process technology, in general also show a satisfactory awareness of problems
related to occupational health and safety. The smaller enterprises, and in particuar the older plants, on
the other hand, exhibit varioas deficiencies in thc worldng enviomeaL
Among the 36 different workplaces surveyed, almost one third had a sa_tsfac=ry woring envin-
ment, with only minor deficiencies. Another tbird of the plants visited (13) had a fairy acceptable
working enviromerL In this group, there are still many issues wich n:main to be solved. However,
the problems seem  to be manageable. There was a certain knowledge and awaeness in respect of
working environment questions and a number of measures had been taken
A mmnor goup comprisng 7 workJplaces had a poor workng envirment The general awaeness was
very low and very little had been done in order to protect the wmrs from the isks i t  work
High noise levels, a general disorder and machinery withot safety protection were common in these
workplaces. However, even If the conditions in these places were alarming, It woud not be impossible
to change the situation. A lack of awareness seemed to be the main problem, more than a shortge of
resources and possibilities.
Finally, a group of 5 companies exhibited a totally unacceptable workng environment The deficien-
cies were so fiundmental and grave that it is hard to say how imrovements coudd be made without
changing the whole prduction process, machiny, premises, etc
103



B. Workling accdents
In many companies the general imprsion is that faors  at can contribute to accidents awe very
common: genel disorder lack of safety equipment. slippery or greasy floors, dsks for stumbling, lack
of banists. bad lighting conditions, etc. In spitc of this her are "few or no working accident"
accarding to the company managemenL
OCly a few companies within the lndustial sector seem to put on record the working accident occur-
ring. Ibis lack of recording is common although the companies are obliged to report over working
acidents to the "Mhnisterio de Trabajo y Desarollo Laboral" every third monthL Only a few companies
have been able to demonstrate that they respect these regulations. For obvious reasons the informaon
provided be the "Ministrio de Trabajo' or the "Caja Nacional de Salud" (CNS) is very incomplete.
However, the petoleum industry (refineries) and a few othe companies stand out as good examples
regarding the reportng of accidents and the keeping of records and statistics.
C Chemical hazards
In many workplaces, the workers are exposed to chemicals of diferent kinds, such as:
- chromium compounds and other chemicals in tannenes
- a2senlc, antimony and sulphur gases in smelters
- lead in battery production
- solvents in the graphics industry
- dust in cement producton
- PVC, acrylate and styen  in the plastic industry
- berzene and toluene in refineries
- formaUln in chicken farming and ia foundies
- tensides in detergent producdon
- asbestos in the production of roofing tiles
A recent study by INSO at the Vinto smeter ponts out that, in spite of the ongoing Imprvments,
too high contents of arsenic. antimony and sphur gases occur in certain pakts of the plant and tat
high contes of arsenic and antimony appear in the mine and blood of some of the wors.
Already in 1979 it was esblished by INSO that more than 60% of the workers at a minor smelter
had high contents of lead in the blood. More ta a decde later, as repmted by CNS in 1990. 47% of
the investigated workers (45 persons) still presented values that indicated a risk: of lead intoxication.
INSO is active in contolling the working environment in refineries and some other critical industries.
Unforunately it is done only as a service to be paid for and then, conseently, does not Inlude the
less serlous but more polutng industries.
In some indusrie with an internal polluted atmosphere the exposed workers use respiratory protective
equipment ilis is of course graifying even If, in many cases, tere may be reason to doubt that the
equipment is maintined in a saisfactory manner. In other cases the workers do not use respiratoy
protective equipment even if there are very good reasons to beLieve that they shouldL
Lbeling, insuctions for use and safety instructions regading cheuicals being used, are often defi-
cienL
104



D. Noise, lHghdng and ergonomles
Noise is a very common problem in the industrial sector in Bolivia. Accadiag to INSO. more than
one half of the total work force are exposed to exorbitant levels of noise, and 40% of the workforce Is
said to have impaired hearing. The frequency of workers using hearing protetctrs is nevertheless low
and very few measures are taken to decrease fte high noise level.
Lighting is often a neglecced area. A majorty of the waorplaces visited had unsatisfactor lighting.
What is often not remembered is that a certain amount of light may be sufficient for "doing the jobW
but still insufficient for the avoidance of accidents. In inost industries, there are many heavy jobs,
difficult work postures and inticate work movements that create risks for over-load and accidents.
Less firquent in the Bolivian industry are the short-cycle, monotonous, frequently machine-controlled
jobs which are so common in the highly industriaized world. Such jobs cause high frequencies of
strain injuries and other muscular or skeletal diseases.
E. Possibibties for Improvement
One of the most important tasks is to raise the managemenrs awareness about the benefits of a sound
working environment. and to let this awareness penetrate tbrough the whole wokforce of the com-
pany. Therefore, the first need is educaion and tfaining.
Work Injury prevention is not just a duty-, it is a kind of planning that often pays off even economi-
cally. A better woring enviromment means fewer wrxk injuries and less sickness absenc. It is a good
affair for the peson involved, for his employer and for the society in general. The base is a well
functioning health monitoring and recording systm. Possibly some type of incentive should be estab-
lished in order to convince employers, as wel as employees, about the need br suc measres
Ihe problem of chemicals in the working envirnment has to be solved by means of technical and
organizational measures, such as the substitution of a hazardous process or substance with a less
hazaros, encapsulation and exWaMcinL In the Sho term, however, adequate measurs of this kind
are not always possible. Employees wID at least tempoarily have to wear safety equipment in the form
of breathing protets, eye shields, protecve clothing and gloves.
The shor-term, most efficient way of rapidly improving the occupatonal health situation n the Boli-
vian working life, is probably withmi the sector of hearing potction The present Situation of wide-
Spread indifference is most tragic, since even restricted measums could improve the situation appre-
ciably. not to mention such a simple thing as wearing hearing protectos. It should be the responsi-
bilitY of the employer not only to supply these devices but also to enforce their use.
105



V. SOCIAL IMPACIS
The llndustiralzation pocess in Bolivia has developed gradually, albeit slowly. since the 1950s, when
mssive migaios to the major cities began. Up to hat tlme, mining and agricultre were the totally
dominmn sectors within the Bolivian economy. However, this situation began changing due to factors
such as low agdrcultul production, changes in traditional ownership system conceming land, the
coDapse of the internaional tin marlet with the subsequcnt dosure of mis, and the lack of industrial
development which could integrte the many unemployed workers in the countryside. Ihe manuifac-
tureg industry In Bolivia Is still a relatively small sector within the global economy, with a conse-
quently restricted overal social Impact; however, Its social impacts have been increasing. partilarly
as they are linked with broader urban social problems.
Rapid urbanizaoion and excessive growth of the capital are two outstanding features of many coniem-
porary Lain American societies. The development of La Paz-El Alto in Bolivia is a typical example of
1his phenomenon. On the other band, Bolivia contrasts with oth  Lafin Amcrican counties in that
industry developed out of the already existing cheap and abundant workforce, rather than attrcting
wokers from other countries.
El Alto can be charcterized as a "boom-town" because of its rapid growth The migration to this city
esented a desperate flghL from unemployment and misery in the countyside, rather than a search
for wor in existi  industries. Within a few years after the massive migrations began. El Alto became
a real city In terms of Its size, even though it has only minimal infrsuctue and sfill lacks basic
services, such as water and sewage systems.
The large influx of people to La Paz-El Alto has greatly exacerbated problems of unemployment and
sub-employment This situation has resulted in a rapid increase in informal sector activities. Heavy
crime is, however, not yet a major concern The very inad te education level of tais poulation
does not permit them to seek qualified work On the contrary, the abundanc of unskilled laborers,
including men, women and children, has brought down the income of the urban poor. Thus, wages are
very low and work conditions extremly deficenL
A substail number of the bigger and thriving companies In Bolivia exhibit a satisfactoy awareness
of problems related to occupational health and safety; they have adopted modem technology, safe
equipment, and aining practices to prevent accidents and educate their workes about potential risks
Meanwhile, In many otber companies, ignorance and negligence is a major reason for occupational
illness and accidnts. Major occupational hazards imclude: nappropiate handling of chemicals; indoor
air pollution (and the lack of respiratory protection); bad lighting conditions; noise; and woring
double shifts (to eamn more money).
Many manufauing industry activities also pose hazads to the environment and public health Wih
few exceptions, thre is no special segrgation and treatment of industria or household wastewa.,
nor are there adeque systems for solid waste mnagement and disposal. Since most new industrial
vnur    ll presumaly locate to existing in=ustral centrs in urban areas, it is urgent to address
existng problems with Infrastructure and the related soci services in cities such as Cochabamba. El
Alto, la Paz, Onzo and Santa Cruz Also. there is a need for imprvements in occupational health and
safety, including bettr education and training of the idustial workforce regarding this issue.
106



VL REGIONAL IMPACTS
A. La Paz (Choqueyapu Basin)
The main river draning the valley of La Paz is River Choqueyapu with its two main tributaries River
Orkojahuira and River Irpavi. River Choqueyapu later joins River Bopi, that flows into River Alto
Beni, forming a part of the Amazon Basin. The headwaters of these streams arc the melting water
from the glaciers on the high peaks (e.g. Mount Chacaltaya) in the Eastern Cordillera. River Cho-
queyapu is flowing from NW to SE through the whole city of La Paz and the two above mentioned
tributaries are joining the main rivcr in the center of La Paz. The average flow of River Choqueyapu is
relatively low'. during a two-year investigation, in 1976-78, it was measured at 1.3 m3ls at the entrance
to the city. and at 65 m3ls at a point 20 km further downsnm (Puente Lipari). During the dry sea-
son, the water of River Choqueyapu consists almost exclusively of wastewata.
Several investigations of the pollution of River Choqaeyapu have been carried out over the yeams
(Most recently, the municipallty of La Paz Is negotating with the Japanese govermment regarding a
possible project to help clean and preserve the Choqueyapu rivcr.) The main results of tbree systematic
studies are summarized in Table 5:4. Mhe fir study was conducted over a 24-month peiod in 1976-
78 by the Institute of Sanitary Engineering at the Universidad Mayor de San Andres (UMSA). Ihe
results from this study are mainly presented as mean values for the whole study penod. The second
moning campaign was conducted in 1987 by Espinoza, Institute of Chemistry, UMSA, and the last
one, in '988-1990. by Franken and Sivila, Institute of Ecology, UMSk The table clearly shows that
the river, which is fairly clean when it enters the city (Achachicala). becomes heavily poluted before
it leaves the urbanized area (Aranjuez). Puente Lipari is located 20 km downsteam of Achachicala
and Mecapaca some further 10 km downseam. It is also shown in the table that the heavy pollution
of the river is not a recent phenomean  but has persist  for at least 16 yeas
By calculating the mass transport of arganic waste in the river. it can be seen that the tanspo is
about tbe same in the center of La Paz as at Puente Lipari (110 tld of COD and 50 tfd of BODE). Ibis
may be explained by the existence of additional pollution sources in the south-eastern outskits of the
city. The self-purification capacity of the river must be cDnsidierd as fairly high, since the concentra-
tion of dissolved oxygen in the water never falls to very low values, which is a consequence of the
very high reaemtion rate of the extemely tuibdent river (having a fall height of 680 meters between
Aclhichacaia and Puente Upari).
The extremely high loading with organic waste can be attributed to the dishges of both unteated
industrial wasrewater and domestic sewage, as weU as to disposal of solid wastes of both industrial
and urban origin. It is almost impossible to detrmine to what extent the industial discharges are
responsible for the precaious state of the nver. The only somewhat positive aspect is that the contami-
nation with heavy metas is relatively low (arsenic - 20 ug/l; coppcer - 50 ugll; and zinc - 360 ughl as
highest values recorded). On the other hand, the chromium concention (up to 300 ug/l) is high,
which possibly is a result of the unteated discharges from the taneies in the city. Furthermore, the
rivcr water at Puente Lipan holds on average 7x105 fecal coliforms per 100 ml.
107



Table 5:4. The water quality of River Ckoqueyapu at different sites within and downstrm of La Paz
city. Data are given for three time periods.
Sim         YEAR      Ss           BOD,    COD        NH.    PO,    Cr         Zn
_____  mg/l         mg/l _   mg/I       mg/l    mg/I   -gf      pg/I
Adia-       76-78     750          3.6       24       -        -      13       -
chicala
Acha-       87        49-19000     0         16-20    0.13-   0.06-   0-130    190-
Chicala                                                095    0.17             220
Acha-       8-90      40->500      0-2       2-20     0-024   0-0.3    -       0-130
chicala               _____
Puente Ejer-  76-78    1200        250       560         _     -      39       -
Aranjucz    76-78     970-17000    15-240    72-550   -        -       1-170    -
Aranjuez    87        2300-5000    39-380    110-540  6.9-29   1.3-    3-280    40-110
3.6
Aznjuez     88-90     >>500        160-260   210400  7.8-28   1.6-    -        10-260
7.5__                 _
Puente      76-78     4000         76        210      -        -      12       -
Lipari       _  _   __                           _
Puente      87        2500-5600    40-200    80-240   4.7-27   0.5-    0-30    10-90
Lipari                                                         4.9
Puente      88-90     >>500        75-100   90-230   7-13    0.2-    0-300    10-360
Lpari                                                          2.6
Meapa       88-90     >>500        4546      81-170   11-16   0.2-    -        0-190
2.0
Take as a whole, It must be considered as totaly unacceptable  at the combined unteed was
from fte biggest city in the country should contnue to pollute the lower La Paz valley. crating sevr
conflicts with the agricultual and other activities in this zone.
B. El Alto (Altiplano Basin)
Part of the city of El Alto belongs to the Amazon Basin, but the western part of the city are drained
by Rio Scco, wbich Is part of the Closed Basin or Altiplano Basin. Rio Sewo flows to River Catazi,
which is finally emping into Lake Titicaca, partly as an undergound stream.
Municipal water supply and sewerage systems in El Alto are in a very prumitive se; in large parts of
the city these services are non-existing. As pointed out ealier, the instrial este in El Alto is not
108



equipped with any of the basic services (water supply, sewer), necessary for this kind of development.
As a result, the wastewaters from practically all the industries installed in El Alto are discharged in a
totally unoatrolled manner to the ground or to ditches and streams as well as directly to Rio Seco.
The largest part of the waste eventually ends up in Rio Seco and is then rnasprted - during the rainy
season - to the very sensitive Lake Tlticaca Basin.
The environmenl situation in this area is, thus, extremly precarious. It has been reported, however.
that a comprehensive study is in progress with the aim of designing a sewerage system for El Alto.
including adequate waste treatment facilities. It can only be recommended that this study be urgently
accomplished and that necessary finds be made available to start the rehabilitation work in El Alto
without delay.
C Oruro (Lake Poopo Basin)
The city of Omro is situated in the wautshed draining into Lake Poopo, which is an extremely sensi-
tive hydrological region. The environmental impact in this region is totally dominnted by the mining
industry. and to some degree by the smelting industry located within the city as weD as in its sur-
roundings. For details on the impacts by the mining industry, the rade Is referred to Part 4, chapter
VLC. and Appendix IV.9.
Besides the mining industry, the most severe envirnmental impact in this region is caused by the
primary smelters Vinto, EMO and Fundici6n Pero. The emissions to the atmosphere of sulfur dioxide
as wel as dust, conaining arsenic and lead, have been very large in te past (several thousands of
tons per year of sulfir dioxide, SO2, and about 250 tons per year of arsenic), causing health hazards tD
the inhabitants of the city and severe contamination of soils. Today, these emissions are being reduced,
partly due to an ambitious rehabilitation program being iLmplemented at the Vim smelter, but mninly
as a result of the decing production in the smelters. The Fundici6n Pero, located in the cenal part
of Oruro, has for a long period of time been a major source of pollution consisting of SO2, arsenic
and lead, because of the outdated technology used. Ibis plant is caueny being dismantled and moved
outside the city, but evidently without change of technlogy. A quantitative monitoring of the emis-
sions. both through stNcks and fugitive emissions, is needed as a basis for decisions regarding addi-
tional reductions. This monitoring should be complemene with monitoring of the ambient air quality
as well as the soil quality in the surroundings of the smelters.
Water pollution from the Vimto smelter includes heavy metals. acids, phenol and cresol. A new
effluent treatment plant is now under tcxci_s=on, which is desigoed to produce an effluent dean
e=a6i to be recycled within the smelter.
In the Oruro area there are also some other, small-scaie metal processin industnes, including an iro
foundry. Ihe technology used in these units is very pimitive, causing various occupational health and
envirnmental contamination problems. The food industry in the city is generaly rather moden, with
prduction equipment of a high standard and causing no or only minor envimnmental concerm
109



D. Cochabamba
The city of Cochabamba is drained by River Rocha with tributaries, which flows into River Caine,
which in tun joins Rio Grande. belonging to the Amazon Basin. River Rocha flows through the
eastern suburbs of the city, then traverses the central part and continues to the SW.
About 290,000 of the inhabitants of the city are supplied with potable water through the distribution
system operated by SEMAPA. Very few industnes are atached to this municipal network About 80%
of the households with municipal water supply are also desaved by the sewerage system, conducting
the wastewater to a collective treatment plant. mainly consisting of stabilization lagoons. The treated
wastewater (80-85% BOD reduction) is utilized in an irrigation scheme, which means  at there is no
direct regular discharge of wastewater to River Rocha rom the central part of the city. covered by the
sewerage system.
Table 5:5 Results of water quality monitoring in River Rocha, Cochabamba, carried out on February
1, 1993. Analyses made by the Water Program, UMSS, Cochabamba.
PARAIE              LOCATION:
12 km NE of city  Aiport-        18 km SW          24 km SW
of city          of city
pH                  6.45            6.50              6.90             6.85
BOD5 mgfl           88              185               118              87
COD mgfl            140             208               216              192
Toal solids mg/l    166             388               598              770
Susp. solids mg/l   72              54                128              584
Volatile solids mg/ | 33            140               240              69
Elercond.nmho/an    156             556               890              390
Chloride mgll       5.8             39                99               20
Sulfate mgll        37              77                86               63
Nitrate mg NO3A1    1.7             4B                3.0              4.3
Kjeldahl nitrgen    31              32                39               28
mg N/I
Tota phophous       0.8             22                4.5               1.0
mg   PA                                                                  _ __  _ __  _
Total colifonns     Z3xlO'          6.7x10'           43x104            13x10'
NWlOO mll
'The location "Airpor" is at the point where the river leaves the central, sewered part of the city.
110



Table 5:6 Results of a preliminary water quality monitoring campaign in River Pir2i, camied out in
August-October 1989. Analyses made by the laboratory of SAGUAPAC. Sampling stations
no.l and no.2 are located upstream the city of Santa Cruz, no.4 just downstream the city,
no.j downstream of one of the sugar mills. no.7 downstream another sugar mill, and no.8
and 9 about 20 km and 50 km. respectively. furtier downstream.
PARAMETR                                SAMPTJNG STATION
1      2       4      5        7        8        9
Flow. m3Is            2.2    3.1     32      4.0     6.4      4.2      -
PH                    82     8.5    8A       7.5     8.1      8.1      7.3
°2 satzatim %         96     94      93      67      74       80       72
Susp.solids mgl       40     170    90       140     75       100      570
Dissolved solids mgll   270    260    310    570     290      320       190
ROD, mggll            !3    1 !1.6    9.0    1 .C2(  , D
In order to get an overview of the potntial nisk of groundwa  contamination in the Santa Cniz
region, it is furter=more recommended to underake a general survey of the groundwat quality (with
regard to various contaminants) in wells distributed over the entire region.
112



Such methods are prefeable to an approach of quickly introducng rules which are recommended by
specialists working in relative isolation. Outside expertise will srely be needed, but it will be more
effective as integrted support to work involving all the parties concerd. The Chamber of Industry
has recently formed an environmental committee for these purposes and the Association of Medium
Mies has engaged consultants for research workl However, it will depend basically on the skill and
good-will of the authorities - and especially SENMA as the coordinatng entity - if the process of
developing workable legal requirements for environmental management will be successful.
Giving govemment and industry adequate time to prepare and adapt to the coming rules wold build
the credibility and effectiveness of environmenl management efforts by ensuring that new legal
requirements are in fact appropiate and feasible. It would also reflect the reality that moutine ega
reeent will noL be a prical opion in Bolivia for some rime; the institutional infrastructr
public awareness and political will necessary for enfo.rcement of environmental management require-
ments do not yet exisL
Aside from the prblems with weak legal Implementation and enforcment capabilities, it is imp=fat
to bear in minti that legal solutions, while important have restricted cffectiveness in-any cae. Clearly,
no government can undertake to regulate all soues of envronmental harm at once; develooment and
application of such requirements must be incremental. Governments typically begin with large statio-
nary sources of environmental harm such as factories and power plants because they are easier and
more efficient to target - they are already subject to govermment reguation, the means of making
environmental improvements are known, the improvements will provide relatively large potential
benefits (in terms of environmental quality and sometimes production efficiencies, as well), and these
facilties are more likely to have the necessary financial. technical and human resources to make
neded changes.
ILevitably, most sources will a  be subject to significant environmenal regulation in the early days
Broad en   m l laws are usualy too vague to serve as an adequate basis for regulating specific
source activities. Even where very specific regulatory requiments exist, the process of informing the
regulated community and buidig government implementaton capabilities is grdual. Moreover, many
envirumental problems we cmused by many snail acs vho opratc in the informal sector or other-
wise outside the normal scope of government reguatn.
'Thus. the success of envirnmental management efforts rests heavily on buildling huma2n resources, as
well as broad outreach and education 'ibis requires action on two levels: (I) raising awareness within
govenment, the regulated community, other key institutions, and the general public; and (2) providing
education, training and on-the-job experience at the university and professional levels for people work-
ing in the many fields that affect environmental managemenL
These considerations have clear aplication in Bolivia. As this sectaoral assessment illustates, there are
enormous variations in the kinds of mining and industrial activities that contibute to enviromental
problems, and the nature of those problems within different regions of the country. Ibe govemment
will need to tailor its  rowach accoardingly. Legal a ache, supplemented by outeach and educa-
tion offer promise in working with [lie larger operations. On the other hand, making improvements
among smaller sources, especialy those operating in the informal mining and industrial sectors, will
depend more on broad economic and social, rat  than legal, nrsponses.
The rest of this section addresses the following issues in more detail: strengthening governmental and
114



PART 6: RECOMMENDED PRIORITIES FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL
MITIGATION PLAN FOR THE MINING AND INDUSTRLIL SECTORS
Every environmental aspect of the mining and industrial sectors in Bolivia require very substantial
improvement Ih;is section recommends pnorites for consideration by the Goverment of Bolivia and
other intesed parties in preparing an Environmental Mitigation Plan for the mining and industrial
sectors. It 's divided into three parts: (1) broad policy, legal and institutional issues; (2) major targets
for mitigation; and (3) recommended priority acvities.
L BROAD POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES -- Clarifying and Im-
plementing policdes to promote sustainable development
In principle. the Envirommental Law (supplemented by the environmental provisions of other recent
and proposed laws) contains all the necessary policy elements to carry out a long-term national pro-
gram geared towards sustainable, environmentally sound economic developmenL However, there has
been very little harmonization of these elements with preexisting polices, laws and practices. Effective
implementation of policies on sustainable development will depend on harmonion and integration
at the polcy, legal and operational levels.
This must. of course, be an extended and gradual process. The PAAB offers an important opportunity
to initiate the process broadly, although it is still too general and vague in its present stage to accomp-
lish much in this area
The Govemment must balance the need for deigning new legal instruments and progrAms with the
need to improve implementtion of existing requiements and programs Yc
existing            mg_ams _nd ifLqfit tion-, vAiewyer puss blr. However, improving environmental
management will in many cases require new activities because the field is still new in Bolivia
We also  cmmend a cautious apoach to drftinp new legal instruments. The dilemma is tat, on
one side. clear legal requirementS are urgently needed in order to direct the industry in its environmen-
tal efots; while on the other side, rules should not be fixed without a very genune participation by
all parties affected. One way to compromise between these conflicting demands is to involve and
activate the industrial sector (and ot.er p-a ties conerned) in the wo f formulating regulatis.
G-iven the neymess of the issues and the ver limited renre  vilable to tackle themn it may often
be more prodctive in the long ran to begin with geea egltr frmeworks supplemecnted by
voutr gifidelines and other coopertive actvities wiath reguWated entities. and to formnalze detailed
new proedures thmugh mrore comprhensive final regiflations as. operatonal eMeinegos. The
inherent delays in finalizing legal requirements with this approach would be justified by the benefits of
ensuring that all partes are familiar with the goals and the probable outcome of such work. A valuable
element during such a learning period would be close cooperaion between applicants and authorities
in the preparaton of EIAs for new or expansion projects in industry.
113



resources is the most important aspect of improving institutional capabilities, as discussed in the pre-
ceding section on clarifying and implementing policies.
Technical work such as field sampling, laboratory analysis, etc. should be contractd from the outside
whenever possible, subject to government guidelines on standards and qualitv control. This will limit
the burden on strained govemnment resources and cncourage the growth of private sector activities.
To the extent possible, govemment insitutions with expanded environmental responsibilities shoudd
finnce their work trough service charges and administtive fees. Doing this will require appropriate
legal authorzation and clear. well-managed sdhemes for collecting and allocating the fees accordingly.
The SEMAPA arrangement in Cochabamba offers one model that seems to work fairly well. When-
ever possible, charges show d be high enough to induce regulated sources to improve tieir environ-
mental management practices; however, international experience has shown that this is a difficult
political step. even in industrialized countries (see Appendix. IV.1 on regulating industrial pollution).
B. Overall planning for sound use of land and natural resources
1.  Gencra aspects
Ihe resource conflicts and planmng problems identified in this study reflect larger problems within
Bolivia - and many of them will be resolved only as the country is able to take on the underlying
issues. The National Envimental Laws call for development of an Ordenamient Territoial is
otentially the most comprehensive response The laws being prepard on biodiversity, indigenous
peoples, water and foestry may help to resolve some problems of natural resources management as
they apply to different sectors.
Some problems related to mining and indushy, such as conflicts with specific agiricltural and urban
uses of water. will have to be addressed case-by-case Ohe problems coud be addressed thrgh
general policies even bfore formulation of an    mlento TetoriaL Some of these policies could
draw upon existing examples, such as encouraging the development of industrial estates like the one in
Santa Crz. It is important to note, however, that such requiremenis have litle value witou an imple-
mentation scheme For instac  the 'indusrria estate' arrangement in El Alto cano become effective
until the necessary infstructure exist so that indusries can function normally within the estate.
Ihe way that SEMAPA manages the water and sewer systems m Cochabamba could provide another
useful example. Several aspects of the SEMAPA program might be usefuly applied elsewhere, inclu-
ding: its graduated system of fees; its arrangement to supply water from the lagoons that receive
wastwatr to farmers located downsteam; and the regulation of tmnneries located within the central
city. Any evaluation of this program would need to take into account the factors that led to its aca-
tion, as well as the operation of the program itselE
2. Setting Goals for Ambient Environmental Quaity
Setting goals for ambient environmental quaity is one of the basic planning tools that governments
use for managing environmental quality and natua resource use. These goals set targets for environ-
mental quality, based on the primary intended use of a given resource base. Once this primary use is
116



nongovernmental institutions; overall planing for sound usc of land and natumal resources; planning
for new investments; and key regulatory and implementation issues.
A. Strengthening governmental and nongovernmental Institutions
Unclear insttutional responsibilities and weak institutional capacity are a major obstacle to canrying
out public policy initiatives in many developing countries. Ihis is true genaly in Bolivia, and It
certainly applies to impving environmental management in the mining and industial sectors. Even
where policies and laws already exist, it will not be possible to apply them effectively without
strengthening institutional capabilities.
1. Clarifying government institutional responsibilities
In many cases, it is unclear which government institution should be responsible for drafting and ad-
ministering environmental legal requirements and related programs, or how institutions with overlap-
ping junsdictions should coordinate. Special fars are the recent ceation of SENMA. with extremely
broad authority and very limited resources, and the policy to decentralize government as much as
possible.
The prevailing opinion in Bolivia seems to be that SENMA should help to supervise, coordinate and
manage broad cross-cuttg environmental questions, while the sectoral ministries should be respon-
sible for the direct management and enforcement of laws and regulations.' Such an arrangement also
seems to be implied in the Environmental Law, as it states that Enviroment Units should be aeated
in the different ministries.
In carrying out this duty. the ministries for mining and indutry (MM  and MECE, respectively) will
need to draw upon expertise existing in related or other govenment organiations. The MMdM would
for example use the IIMM in Onwro or the Technical Services of SENCAM, while the MECE would
coutm on assistance from its technical branch, which is being tansformed into a nonprfit private
institute. Certain reginal organzations codd also serve in tis role. The two minisies would also be
resposble for the control and licensing of laboraes within their respecve sectors, a task which
should. however, be camed out in coordinauon with SENMA. Many policies and programs will have
to be coordinated with deparmental and local government authorities, particularly in areas such as
land use planning, water quality management, wase management and sanitation.
2.  Stengthening institutional capaity within and outside of government
Increasg istitutional capacity and introducing sound work practices are vitally important to efflcient
administration of environmental questions TIhe goal should be to form small but well qualified groups
wthin eacih of the responsible insttutions, bot within and outside of govemment Building human
'Ibe main exception is responsibility for administering the National System of Protected
Areas, which the Environmental Law specifically assigned to SENMA.
115



institutional capabilities than the Governnent currenty possesses. However, the Government could lay
the groundwork for establishing these goals, perhaps initially tough the regulation on environmental
quality. Here are some poins that we would recommend for consideration:
a. T1ke a repoml pp& conctrating on major rivers and watrhds. In terms of enviromnental
manxagemen, the most important areas a: the Altiplano basin; the parts of the Amazon basin in
Bolivia where thee Is mining for alluvial gold;  cabamba and Sana Cruz. Pollution of surface
waters is the top pioity in most of these places. Goundwar stDies are needed in Santa Cruz and
less urgently in Cochabamba.
As resources permit, air pollution should also be considered. Most likely candidates ae: dust from
mine tailings; emissions and dust fifli cement plants; emissions from major smelters; and udban air
pollution, particularly In La Paz where there is already some monitoring going on with advice from
Mexico. Tlere are probably fewer problems with potlution from major energy sources and motor
vehicles than in many other developing countries. Iibs is because Bolivian petroleum is relatively
clean-burning and Yacimiento Is already proaucing some motor vehicle fuels with low lead content.
b. Ibld hetter baeline dat2 The Government must have better information about baseline conditions
In order to set and evaluate environmental quaity goals. The introduction of EIA reqwurements offers
an opportuity to begin gaering more data about enviromnental conditions in areas with mining and
industrial activity. Begin bulding an information network through existing government and reseach
institutions involved in environmental monitoring. If appropriate, make this a component of the new
national eavironmental information system mandated by the Enl  Law.
c. Fxaiine the Regulations for Disposal of Tndusirial Waste into Bodies of W .inisterial Resolu-
tion No. 010/85 (as well as any other closely related legal requirements). Ihese regulations provide for
classifying bodies of water accordig to use and setting environmenal parameters accordingly. Ihe
regulations have never been applied, except insofar as they may be consstent with some municipal
water management pgrams. In light of the considerations discussed above, it seems doubtful whether
they adequatcly address ether how to set ambient goals or how to regulate discharges fom individual
sources. ibis latter point is discussed in the following section. However, there may be ways that this
regulation could serve as a useful tool; if so. develop a stategy for its application within the broader
context of environmental management
C  Planning for new invesmnents
Improved planning for major new investments is key to breaking the cydle of poor environmental
managemenL Designing better systems from the beginnmg is much cheae and more efficient than
changing existing systems. k is also easier to inject pollution prevention measures at the design stage.
In this context, the ter_ One  investments" alies to utantial cbange in exising faclities, as well
asL estahlishing new facilities. Whether a given investent is "major" normally depends on crieri such
as the amnount of capta expediture audlor increased producto capacit -Andlor projected eniro-
menta imrM. iTis can be evaluated in absolute terms or, in the case of existing facilities, as a
percentage increase.
In the mining sector, the most imponant group of pending investments are lined to the restuctuing
of COMBOLk including inviting private participation in capitalization and manngement In the indus-
118



identilied a government selects a few key. contaminants or other parameters (such as chemical or
biochemical oxygen demand) that can be used to evaluate to what extent the targeted level of environ-
mental quality goal is being achieved.
Ambient envimrmental quality goals may be estblished on a national or regional basis. depending on
local conditions. Ihese goals are often linked to conditions in specific watersheds or air basins? Water
quality goals are most commonly set to protect ither human health (through potable water), agricul-
ture productivity, or protection of aquatic life. Air quality goals are usually set to prtc human health
in densely populated areas. They may also be designed to protect agricultural productivity or sensitive
ecosystems; this is becoming inreasingly common in parts of the world where acid rain is a probleaL
Rccent inernational efforts to counteract global waning and ozone depledon are an attempt to pro-
mote ccrtain air quality goals on a global basis.
In many cases. it is not possible to achieve enviromnental quality goals for many years, or even de-
cades. Ihis is true for industrialized, as weU as developing countries. The need for gradual progress
through a phased approah is part of why having these goals is important; they can provide a frame-
work for establishing more detailed requirements for environmental managemet, and for measuring
progress toward ataining environmental quality targ-ts over time. Govenmients always retain the
flexibility to adjusL their environmenta quality goals periodically, as more information becomes avail-
able and conditions change.
The first step in setting environmental quality goals is to identify a primary use for the targeted area or
resource In practice, of course, there are usually multiple resource uses in each area; and in theory, it
%would be possible to set multiple goals accordingly. However, this would not be a practical approach
in Bolivia because of the weak institutional capacity regardinig environmental management It would
probably be more effective to focus on te use tMat seems overall most important
Once the pnmary use is identified, the next task is to selc the  mental parameters that wi
serve to monitor and evaluate environmental quality. A special cocern in Bolivia is that high concen-
trations of many heavy metals occur nauy  in mrgions with extensive mineral resources. It is impar-
tant to take this facr  into account when seing the enviomental quality goals for those areas;
othervise, the goals selected could be unnecessarily stiact and imposible to acdieve, Ibis is an
example of why it is important to have as much baseline infonnation as possible when setting environ-
mental quality goals. Where such informaion is limited, one option is to consider the goals selected
by other ountries with similr natural conditians.
In the near term, we would not recommend attempting to establUsh detailed, comprehensive environ-
mental quality goals in Bolivia To do this effecively would require far more technical resources and
'It is also possible to set ambient goals for soil quality but this is rare. since in most cases
efforts to address air and water pollution will also ameliorate many problems of soil pollution.
Soil usually acts as a sink for waste material, receiving pollutants tbrough transport in water or
air.
'In principle, ambient goals can also be used to set emission limits for regulated sources in
the absence of more specific regulatory requirements. However, this is a cumbersome and ineffi-
cient approach that is not generally recommended.
117



1. Assessing the scope of existing poblems from past opeations and what remedial steps are
neede
2. Derminng how and when remedial measures will be tken and assigmng responsibility for
tese actions.
3. Assigning liability for existing and futr problems that may arise as a result of past environ-
mental practices (e.g.. pmviding substtte supplies for conminated water, addressing health
4. In the case of mins that will coninue in production, upgrading environmenal management
for new investmcnts and futurc opraons, as wcll as future closures
5. In the case of mies that will be permanently closed, determining and financing ap e
measures to remediate existng problems and prevent fute contaminion.
6. What guidelines and/or legal obligations may be appropriate where there are no specific
national legal requiremenLs that address the above issues.
Tbis is still a very new issue woddwide, and Bolivia should consider the experience of other countries
in formulatmg its own policies. Ihe general trend seems to be toward using enviuonmental audits as a
basis for dtermining what needs to be done and prjecting the related costs. The government usually
agrees to retain liability for problems resulting from eistig enmal harm. The otber factors
noted above are normaly subject to negotation, with the new investor agreeing to take on some or all
of the othe enviomental concens. subject to adjustments i the purchs puce and other considera-
tions.
Two conditions in Bolivia will provide certin extra challenges. Fist some mines have already been
Or are opened to private patcipation before an    en     policy for this process can be developed
or implemented. The government will have to determine how to handle tbis situation consistent with
public health and economic concems, withOut eitber unfuirly burdening these early investors or giving
them an unfair advantage with respect to subsequent investors.
Secnd, it will be some time until adequate evironml requirements applicable to mines are adop-
ted; until then. it may be unclear what standards should apply and bow tO enforce tem.
One option is to spell out environmental responsibilities and liabilities more clearly in the sales con-
tracts. Where no enforceable national enionmental requirements exist, it may be possible to reference
inernational or national guidelines or voluntary standards of conduc If this is not acceptable, another
option might be to include a clause in each contra that ackinowledges the parties' obligation to com-
ply with applicable environmental requirements, and in the absence of such  quirements, to make best
efforts tO comply with internatonal practices in L atin America. Again, a review of evolving interna-
tional experience should be helpful.
Incoroatg enviromnl concerns into the restructuing activities is a delicate process because of
the great pressure Chat uslly exists to proceed as quickly as possible. It would be unrealistic to
expect "ideal" envionmental solutions. However, the fact that COMIBOL will coninue owne of its
mines provides an extra incntive for addressing these issues in the COMIBOL resmucring process.
COMIBOL's program to conduct environmentl audits and related activities will help to signal the
120



trial sector, the most dynamic development seems to be in agro-based industry, especially the manu-
facture of edible oil and soya products. but also in the field of alcohol distilling. Other branches with
important expansion projects are: glass bottle manufacturing; cement plants; and some of the rather
small scale recycling units, such as lead battery. lubricant oil, and plastic.
1. Environmental impact asessment
SENMA is now finalizing Bolivias fiLst EIA regulations. The government should make sure that the
new regulations are clear about when they apply to major revisions of existing facilities, as well as to
major new projects. As noted in the discussion above on clarifying and implementing policies, close
cooperation between applicanas and authonities in the preparation of ELAs should be a centrai element
of implementing new environmental management policies.
SENMA and others involved In this process will have to plan carefully in terms of how many and
which new investments activities should be the early candidates for ELA. This is important to ensure
that the extremely limited EIA capabilities in Bolivia are not overwhelmed, and that there are some
early successful experiences with this new requirement A promising sign is that according to informa-
tion provided to the Study Team during site visits, some Bolivian banks have almeady begun requiring
ElAs as a condition of graning loans to help finance major new industrial investments. SENMA is
also working with the Inter-Ameican Development Bank and Bolivian banks to arrange a progrm  for
the next year or so where special funds will help pay for ElAs equired as part of loan conditions.
2. Environment and the restructuring of COMIBOL
The process of restnucturing govenment holdings thrugh privatation and other forms of private
participation offers a unique apportunity to inject better environmental planning into existing industrial
sectors in a country. The potetal impact of :his process has been most evident in Central and Eastern
Europe, where potenial investors have stressed  er need to know about environmental requirements
and liabilities before making investment decisions.
Clarifying environmen  responsibilities and liabilities in the restrucaring process helps to improve
investment decisions and the long-term viiity of the investments, and to mimmize futuwe health and
economic risks from poor environmental management practices. Tbe nate of the restucuring of
COMIBOL makes tese factors espeally important becase COMIBOL will retain ownesip of its
properties (due to Constitutional restrictions on divestiture of the nationalized mining holdings). It is
especially important that rules and rsponsibilities be clear in these arrangements for private participa-
tion because COMIBOL wil have a dual role, as both past owner and as current owner (and some-
times as an active partner).
The new ventunes emanating from the restrucing of COM[BOL will involve substntial investments
in new proesses, madinery and operational procedures. COMIBOL and the World Bank are now
adusting their plans to include enviro nental considerations. In the coming months, COMlBOL will
conduct environmental audits of its major holdings that have not already been placed under contracts
for private participation. Bhe rsulting information can help in preparing documents for bids and con-
tracts. and can also inform more generally the process of evolving ber  environmental practices in the
mining sector. Major concerns to be addressed include:
119



It will take considerable time to carry out.a program of issuing and monitoring permits to individual
sources. As a supplement and catalyst. the government should work with companies and other interes-
ted parties to develop gencral and industry-specific environmental guidelines and codes of conducL
b. Price-hased instmments shoild be used as much as possiblc. consistent with poliy. le?al ad
insj=litinzkl omyrint-- The new Environmental Law encourages the use of economic incentives.
However, adopting such appoaches apparently require amendments to national fiscal legislation.
- Government instiutions with envnmental management reponsibliies should try to finance
their work partly through service chrges and adminisive fees. Graduated fees or other
approaches to induce desired behaviors should be used where politcally and otherwise
fesible. This was already discussed above u    institutional stengthening.
- Carefully designed, limited subsidies may be appropriate to encourage cereain changes during
the early years of new eavironmental management programs. These would have to be reviewed
for consistency with the govermenfs ovewiAl econamic policy, which discourages the use of
subsidies.
- Identify opportnities to build upon or expand existing ycling of glass bottles, used bat-
teies, etc.
- Consider raising the price of scarce resources, such as wate or electricity, to encouage con-
servation by users. Prices could be graduated according to different categories of users, as is
presently done in some Bolivian cities for water andor sewer fees.
2. Promoting environmentaly sound technologies and processes
As discussed above. the accomplishment of enviromentaUlly sound pracices cannot be achieved only
throgh formal legal equirements and incentves. Ihis is particulary true for countries like Bolivia
that have taditionally weak public administrations.
An impornt alemative means of achieving envirnmmnt management goals is to induce industry to
act voluntarily. This can be achieved by a combination of Informaton and persuasion. Pablic opinion
and the activity of non-governmental organizations are often influentidal In this respect Some of the
groundwork for encourgig industry awareness and voluntary improvements thought this route has
been laid through Bolivia's use of widespread consultation in developing major envirommental initia-
tives, such as new laws and the PAAB.
It Is common in many countries for major companies or branch organiztions to establish technical and
ethical rules that their members agree to fcflow. The Association of Medium Miners and the Assoca-
tion of Leather Tanning Engineers have already started up activities of this kind in Bolivia. Such
approaches are also being promoted witbin other Bolivian industral organizations, such as the petro-
leum industry. Many of the suggestions for coeation with industry mentioned in this section of the
reprt could be carried out prty tbrough work with such groups.
ITe Study Team working on this environmental assessment supported these efforts by organizing in
cooperation with SENMA two well-attended seminars on the mining and industrial sectors, and by
122



Government's commitment to its new policies on environment and sustainable developmenL Besides
marking a significant advance in the wining sector. it may also set an important precedent for any
fimre restructuring activities in BoliviL
D. Key program design and implementation issues
This part considers the issues of: choosing quantity-based and pnce-based regulatory instruments for
environmental management; promoting envinaly sound technologies and prcesses; solid and
hazardous waste management; and occupaional health and safety.
1. Choosing quantity-based and price-based regulatory instments for environmental management
international expenence has shown that envionmental management regimes should incude a mix of
regulatory instruments. Quantity-based approaches (QBA) require polluters to reduce the amount of
pollution so that total cnation in a given area is restricted to targeted ambient limits; QBA
approaches form the underpinnings of environmental management regulation. Price-based approaches
(PBA) rely on market forces to help allocate envirnmental mnnagement responsibilities more effi-
ciently; PBA approaches are an important supplement to QBA regulation (see generally, Appendix
IV.l on regulating industrial instruments and Appendix IV2 on economic instruments).
Selecting the best mix of regulatory instruments in any given situation depends on a thorough under-
standing of the particular context and circumstances. Any decision, no mar how well made, will
need to be re-evaluated and modified periodically. With those caveats in mind, we tentatively recom-
mend the following overall approach as best suited to the realities of environmental management
capabilities in Bolivia, where there is litte technical experise or institution  capacity:
a. Indvidual repulation of maWor sources should be th    n  ment used by national and local
_uJmrties to combat and reduc_ nining and in_trisl pollution Ihis regulation should be linked to
pmits for construction and opeation (tied to the EIA process, where applicable). It should be based
on:
Technology, in terms of best available technology" in the county, In the choice and operation
of system design equipment and proesses. with emphasis on pollution prevention; and
Emission limits expressed clearly as maximum allowable amouns (NOT concenfrations) of
pollutants being discharged (e.g., kg of BODO or COD'" per day or per ton of product).
This is essentially the approach used by Bolivian operations with reasonably sound environmental
management practices. These include: some of the major mining and industrial operations with intrna-
tionsal participation; the Yacimientos refining plants; the FANDEA explosives factory; and the regula-
tion of tanneries in Cochabamba.
9Biochenical oxygen demand.
4'Chemical oxygen demand.
121



However, this predicament must not serve. as an excuse for not acting to improve workers' health and
safety wherever such possibilties exist Opportunities do exist in the larger mines and the formal
industrial sector. Initiatives for improvement will be most efficient if addressed to employers. Influen-
cing employers could be  mpli  to some degree, thrugh information and p     in, but could
also take the form of Incndves for those achieving a low absenteeism from work. Such a scheme
would involve refonmulating the work insurance system
TMe Government needs to examine how to incease its own upport for worker safety and also how to
increase donor sppor It is reomable bw little forign assistance is going into this area, which
affects so much of the populaon either direy or indirectly. In the realm of environ     manage-
ment occupational health and safety measures could often be linked to broader questions of safe
facility operatons and emergency preparedness
Regadig more specific meaures to be taken the occurence of silicosis among miners is a major
concern A study frm 1978-82 showed an average rate of silicosis of 11% among underground
workers (see Part 4, cbapter MV.A). It is probable at the situation has improved since then tbrough
the closure of some critical mies and the intrduction by some companies of heBlth controls and
appropiate measures. On the other side, many more miners ae today woring in the informal sector,
In mines with very rudimentary ventllation and oher preventive faclties. Generally speaking, little is
known about the present day extent of the problem, so a new wide investigation concermng t  health
status of the miners should be caried out. This would povide a basis for subsequent decisions and
measures.
Anoater urgent issue relatn to the health of miners. is the regular use of mercury in the exploitation
for alluvial gold, with resuting possble intoxication, both in connecdon with the process of amalga-
matioa and, indirecty. through the consumption of mercury-beaig fish (see Part 4. chapter ILF).
6. Addressing environmenal problems involving smal sources and the inomnal sector.
As discassed above, en ment coces aising frm the activities of small sources and the infor-
mal sector are more difficult to addrs   than those associated with major sources. Governmets gene-
rally tun their attention to these types of acdvities only after tere has already b'Ae progress in work-
ing with larger sources.
In the case of small scale industrial activities, this approach is probably appropriate in Bolivia. How-
ever, environm a and eat  aciated with the coopeavas and other small scale miners
are so widpred and urgent that they reqir atention now.
Mhe fLrst prionty should be to get a better un snding of small scale mining in Bolivia and similar
problesn in other countres. Key quesdons to be answered are:
a. To what extent are small seale mining activities in Bolivia economially vi_hle9 One frequently
hears that a major problem for this subsector is gaining access to financng and crediL However, it is
the impression of the Study Team that in fact wbere there is economic potential, cooperatives are able
to obtain small scale investments. The more general problem seems to be that so much of this activity
simply is NOT economically viable, but instead is the outgrowth of shrinking formal employment in
124



suggesting a first draft for a Code of Practice for Mining.
Another potential incenfive for better environmental management is for FONAMA to begin directing
more financial support to studies and projects in this area. The following Part n on major targets for
mitigation notes some pending or newly approved proposals to be supported thrugh FONAMA.
3. Solid and hazardous waste management
Bolivia needs to begin estsblishing a fiu;eworz for sound management of solid and hazadous wastes.
At a minimum, the goverment needs to:
a. Identify major categones of waste that should be hanlled senarL For example, these might
include solid waste (household wastes, paper, etc. that are relatively non-toxic) and hazardos wastes
that are particularly dangerous because of tOXicty. flammability. reactvity, etc.
b. Develop Wicies and pudelines for better waste m2nngment inclodinp waste reduction. For
example, took at options to encourage recycling or reuse of potentially useful wastes, including waste-
waters in areas with water shormges.
c.                                                             . This would have to be
done In close coordination with local government authorities. It should integrate the results of the
studies on improving municipal waste management that MUA is funding in Cochabamba and other
cities.
4. Laboraty and monitoring apacities.
Increaing labtory and monitoring caabiities is fndamental to improving the technical, scientific,
and legal aspects of envioomental mangement in Bolivia. Ibe market for these servica  will gra-
dually increase as environmental management grows, particularly if, as rcmmended above, govern-
ment ±nstitutions generally rely on private services. Making the needed improvements wil require
segteing both technical and human resources. An important step would be establishing a cental
environmental laboratory charged with setting standards for quality assurnce and quality control,
serving as a reference laboratory, and helping laboratoies aaoss the counuy to coordinate.
5. Occupational health and safety and its social implications.
The problem here is primarily weak implemenion, rather than inadequacy of existing requirements.
The existing legal requirements for occupational health and safety are little respeted and the general
awareness of these maters is low. One reason for this undoubtedly lies in the major economic and
social problems which are affecting Bolivia. A substantial part of the population is engaged in activi-
ties. which often may be trmed emergency or survival occupations, and in which here is simply no
room for health or safety considerations. It is, indeed, difficult to see how this laner situation should
be attacked. General econoMic development in the country will probably be the only viable road to
change.
123



involve examining possible formal and informal incentives and also enlisting more support from inter-
national doLiors and assistance organiions.
One of the areas of pnme imporance, which would benefit from international coopertion, is the
following-up of the Investigation of the status of silicosis and silico-taberculosis among miners. which
was cffechated more than a decade ago and demonstrated an exceptionally high rate of these diseases.
B. The mining sector
1. Impoving enviromnmental management In Onno
Environmental conditions in the area of Omuro are causing grave concem. The problem is very com-
plex because it involves pollution from many different sources, including: acid mine waters from a
great number of mines in the area: effluents from mineal concenwaon plants; effluents and air emis-
sions from smelters and other industry; acid drainage from waste rock and tailings; and human waste
and sewage.
The impacts of these problems are serious and difficult to fix: surface and presumably ground waters
are being contaminated and mgde unsuitable for buman consumption or inigation; economic damage is
caused through destruction of communal water and sewage installations; and the population is dirzcly
affeced by sanitary problems connected with insial and urban pollution Also, the ecosystem of
Lake Poopo is seriously threatened. Ihis poses serious threats to the fishing and the daily livelihood of
the Uru Muratos tribe, which lives on the shames of Lake Poopo. Ihe lake is also an important water-
fowl habitat
Pres  knowledge about the situation is restricted and superficial, and few initiatives have been taken
Two limited studies have been proposed to FONAMA for funding under the Enterpise of the Amei-
cas initiative; one on enviDnmental conditions ia Lake Poopo, and the other on conditions in Orum
town. Also. two of the major mines of the area will be audited under the COMIBOL envimmnental
program. In the following section on recommended priority actions, ftue Study Team suggests begin-
ning a pilot project in the Onm  area on integrated envirnment managemeot
2. Potosi and the recession of the mining sector
The city of Potosi is in a ste of prolonged economic crisis due to the recession of the mining sector
and the virtual lack of altemative occupation. Added to these difficulties are the serious environmental
problems caused by: water scarcty; acid drainage from the Unificada mine; the very extensive small
scale and artisanal mineal exploitation in the area; the unplanned establisbment of concentration plants
within the city boundaries; the uncontolled discage of mining wast; and the unrestricted release of
communal waste and sewage into rivers flowing through the city.
The result is an extemely unbealthy milieu with nvers and soils being highly caminated, within the
city as well as downstream for tens of kilometers. However, there is little specific and quantitative
information about baselne envirnmental conditions, or the health impact on people living and work-
ing in the area. The Study Team has supported SENMA in reorienting a planned sidy. to be financed
by FONAMA, towards the problem of pollution from the small concentration plants within Potosi and
126



the related effects on the nearby populatioJL Another planned activity is the COMlBOL environmental
audit of the Unificada mine (Cerro Rico).
3. The Amazon basin in Bolvia and mining for alluvial gold
Paris of the Amazon basin located within Bolivia are seriously affected by destruction and contamina-
tion related to the mining of alluvial gold. Present activities do not seem to be significantly affecfing
indigeaous peoples, but the potential impact both on them and on the ecosystem in genea need to be
investigated.
Remediation of eXsting environmeta damage wil be a complex task. A huge compElg factor is
that the ares in question are largely outside of public control and without infaucture. Health service
is nudimentary and serious accidents are very common. By and large, protecting the environment or
workers' health and safety are unknown conceptiors.
There is only very limited information about actu  conditions in the area or the interclation among
ecological, economic, techical and social factors. The 1992 study conducted by IDDEMA is an excel-
lent starL Ihis type of work should be extended to Tipuarm and other areas in the foothills of the
Cordillera Real where alluvial gold mining is concetated.
The more direct task of elimmating the use of meruy - or, more realistically, of improving the
procedures used in the amalgamation and fuming processes - is a mailer of enforcement (in the limi-
ted instances where this is possible) and more generally of education and infonnaion. Even though
this task is fundamentally the responsibility of government authorities, nongovernmental organi ons
could play a major role.
4.  Smal scale and informal mining activities and their socia and enviomal implications
The terrible occupationl and eavironmen  hazards lnked to smanll scale and informal mining are
grounded in Bolivia7s pressing economic and social problems. Like mare general warker health and
safety problems, it is difficult to see how these hazards can be significantly improved apart fom
ameliorating the underlying situation. It is not primarily a question of providing mrce appropriate
technologies or better information The basic activities are essentially not viable economically. Even
so, in many cases where a family (often including children) is working togedter, its income may be
equal to or better than what it could earn from more regular jobs.
COMIBOLs plan to lease mining rights on some of its less productive holdings to cooperaives is
likely to result in deteriorating health, safety and environmenal conditions, as compared to the situa-
tion when the mines were previously operated an an industrial basis. COMIBOL Should explom the
possibilities for minimizing, if not eliminating, the potential for some of the most dangerous types of
small scale operations to be caried out in holdings that are newly leased to cooperatives and other
small ventures. If there is some success in this area, COMIBOL should consider how any such mea-
sures could evenually be applied to other holdings that are already leased.
127



C The industrial sector
Overall, this environmental assessment indicates that the environmental and occapatonal problems
related to the ma= facturing industrial sector in Bolivia have a more limited scope and are less aute
than those identified withn the miiing sector. Nonetheless, there are several regions where mitigation
measures ned to be taken in the short or medium term, as summaized below.
1. POor uxban and Indubstrial planning in El Alto
The most precarious environmental situaion, both with regard to industrialized and urban areas. Is
eacountered in the city of El Alto. The almosi complet lack of adequate industrial and urban plan-
ning. provision of basic infiastrucre and municipal services (eg. water supply and sewmeage systems
with appropiate waste teatment facilities) gives this city a high priotity when it comes to remedial
action. Moreover. the present uncontrolled disposal of liquid and solid wastes threatens the very sensi-
tive ecosystems in the closed Altiplano Basin, including Lake Titicaca The present efforts to find
solutions to the very complex waste disposal problems in El Alto should be given full support Imple-
menting the appropriate solution will no doubt require financial support from sources outside the
municipality of El Alto. TMe scope of the problem is so great that the GOB wiU have to take a respon-
sibility for its solution. probably in cooperaton with foreign assistance efforts.
2. Pollution of the Choqueyapu River in La Paz
The heavy pollution of the Choqueyapu River in La Paz, caused by both unteated industrial and
domestic wastes, has reached such dimensions that the nver can be regarded as an open sewer going
through the whole city. In addition to the adverse aesthetic consequences, this situaion creates obvious
health hazards to the people living close to the river banks, to those who extract sand and gravel from
the nver bed, to those who use the water for imgation downstream of the city, and to those who
consm  the cops produced in the irrigated areas.
The industries located within the city of La Paz should be given inentives or be forced to reduce their
wat consumption by reycling of process water and to undertake prteatment of at least their most
hazardous wastes (toxic substances and heavy metals). Complete on-site wastewatcr treamnt by all
polluting industres may be difficult due to lack of available land. Therefore, a collective treatment
plant for all wastewater from the city might be the only realistic solution For many years, various
solutions have been discussed, but so far, no final solution has been defined. The main problems seem
to be high costs both for construction and for continuing operation and maintenance.
However, the problems will only get worse and become even more expensive to fix as time goes on. It
is therefore strongly recommended that the municipality of La Paz and the GOB give this question a
high priorty and slect a solution to be implemented as soon as possible. As part of their response,
they should consider developing an institutional anrangement for managing municipal water and sewer
services similar to the ones used in Cochabamba and Sta Cruz.
128



3. Upgrading watershed management i Santa Cruz
The municipality of Santa Cruz has already prvided adequate facilities for proper enironmental
mnanagement by the great part of its industry that is Ic:ated in the industrial estate. Most of the re-
naining industry in this region needs to upgrade its envinmental managemcet High priority should
be given to the industries located in the valleys of the Pirai and Chae  rivers; most of these plants
have inadequate or no wasiewater tatme
Mitigating pollution of the Pirai River can only be accomplished thmugh aa integratcd control and
anagemaent prpgram coveing the whole wateihed. Sound rver basin management is necessary to
ensure that the multiple use of the nver for reeaation. swiming, fishing and irrigation continues to
be possible at the same timc as it is used as a recipient for adequpaely treated effluents. Groundwae
monitxing is also necessary in order to evaluate the current degree of contamination and make any
neded plans for protecting the future water supply.
There is alrcady a regional organism, SEARPL that is responsible for sevral aspects of river basin
management in the Pirai River catchment area. SEARPI shud be given extded responsibility to
carry out more comprhensive environmental management programs, in cooperatQ n vwth industry,
SAGUAPAC and the regional Corporation for Development (CORDECRUZ). Inspection and upgra-
ding of the effluent treament facilities of the sugar mills in this region meits special prionty. Ideany,
this should be addressed before the "zafea" (harvesting season).
4.  Extning sewerage systems in Coc(abamba
The municpality of Cochabamba has also taken several commendable initiatives to reduce indusrial
pollution in the city. The next step should be to extend pollution control activities to those parts of the
city which are not presently coveredL
Stdies are already in progress to extend the sewerage sysems to the eastern and western parts of the
city, and also to provide sepementary wamwaw treatment facilities. Industries located in areas that
will eventually be equipped with sewers will have to install or upgrade their treatment systems, as well
as hir solid waste management practices.
However, it appears that none of these improvements will be possible until the city can resolve julis-
dictiooal and politial disputes with adjacent municipalities. Therefore, resolving these disputes should
be given top priorty.
IIL RECOMMENDED PRIORITY ACTIVrrIES
Bolivia is at the very earliest stages of irsegrating environmental management and sustainable develop-
ment into its mining and indut   maufacturing sectors. Human, technical and financial resources are
very limited and institiona capacity weak The govment is receiving considerable internaional
assistance wilh drAfing policies, laws and regulations but much less support for implementation.
Thterfore, this section identifies from the broad list of priorities above a subset of activities that the
129



Study Team believes could help imp=  future capcity tQ design and implement effective pgrams
for environmental m_nngemenr In te mtninp and indurial _.ectors It may be possible to incorporae
some of these activities into ongoing projects of the World Bank or other intemational organizations.
In other cases, undertaking these activities will require new resources.
Ihis section addresscs: aoss-cutting themes; improved cnvironmental management for major sources;
issues requiring furhr sbdy; and proposal for a pilot project on integrated environmental manage-
ment in the Onuro area One of tihe purposes of the pilot project would be to provide coordinated
oppounies for specific application of activities In the first three areas. C(bese first three area are
only summarized briefly, as they daw upon more detailed discussions above.)
A. Cross-cutting theaes
In any activities undertakn there should be a concerted effort to design the work so that it:
1. ProvIdes maximum oprnity for building institutional capacty on-the-job trainin and im-
provement of technical capabilities and faclities.
2.                    _         _ _    _ _          by all affected sectors and parties.
3. Helps to proote- incenfives aknd rninimize disincentives to tlhe efficient use of natural re-
.9wm
4. Cnnihutes to builiing a nherent dtabase on enviro:nental conditions in Bolivia
B. Improved eavironmental management for major sources
The emphasis here should be on improved planning for futre Investme   (both new and expanded
faciities) and addressing the most serious problems in existing major facilities. Wheevcr possible,
environmental improvemens should be linked to greater production efficiencies.
as
effectively as possible.
2. Sjung hnithe dcyg n  onicto   fevirno     Wc                     ment __ceiz
in the mining and industial sectos
3. -Ug          ental aut of existing facilities to serve as a basis for negotiating needed
improvements, to be done on a voluntary basis or eventuaEly as part of the permitting process.
4. 'Ret[Cr Sdaninin- iTtfraqtnictnr and m_nigement for inistdal estates, with El Alto receiving
the bighest priority.
5. Developing guidelines and pilot poc  in cooperaion with industr to build klowledge and
experiece. hIese activiies should include some focus on long-tenrm opeation and main-
tenance of improved equipment and procedures, as well as ways to make imtial improvements.
130



C Issues requiring further study
Among the many Issues requiring further study, the following are especially important:
1. Conditions, underlying causes and ways to address cnvironmental and health problems related
tosmall scale hard mck mining and alluvial _old  iin
2. _hnnsng and and lmplemenfinp goals for smbient envimomcntal uitily Including developing
an effective mix of regulatory instruments.
3. Identiiying mnti adkressins key cconomiC factoN. such as:
a. Claifying what changes wil be requied in national or local laws in order to adopt
appropriate price-based regulatory instruments;
b. Pricing and implementation regimes for water, waste disposal and enrgy services;
c. Other economic measures that can promote more efficient resource use and manage-
ment. For example, some producers who use recyded materials believe that they re-
ceive less favorable tax treatment thn producers using new materials.
4. Clarifyinp.what measures are needed to _e  sensitive emsystS from mining and indus-
trial activities.
5. Inenaygiang available huiman and tecnical resources anid determinlin,g how to make mamm
use of these-resourmes and how to incrase them.6
D. Proposal for a regional pilot acivity - Integrated environmentl management In the Oruro
region
The Study Team believes that there is an urgent need in Bolivia to begin addressig in an integrated
fashion the complex linkages of cxisting and projected problems assocated with mining and industnal
development, as identified m this seccoral environmental assessmnL lhe team reommends locating
such a pilot project in the Oniro area
Onuro represents a striking confluence of many of the major problems identified i this sectoral envi-
ronmental assessment This drainage basin is expeiencing multiple sts  due to the proxuimty of
mining fields and industrial activities to an urban area and Lake Poopo, a sensitive ecosystem which is
the home of the Uru Muratos tnbe. Oniro already has an important institoutinal base widh which to
work, including laboratory and research capabilities.
*60ne example of a start on this type of work is a recen study of the water supply sector that
includes an evaluation of technical and human resource capabilites and needs. PrgnN al
de C-ontrol y Vigilancia de 1a Caldad de] Agu2 en Sistermas de Ab2stecirniento, Mlin. de Asuntos
Urbanos y Ministeio de Prevision Social y Salud Publica, ANESAPA (La Paz, 1992193).
131



Building technical and institutional capacity for environmental monitoring and environmental manage-
ment in Oruro would offer a focus for coordinated application of many of the priority activities recom-
mended above; it could also offer a model and training ground for making similar improvements
elsewhere in Bolivia.
Key elements of such a pilot project should be:
1. Inveto  Of  tl     human resources. In all sectors. the acrent situation as well as existing
trends should be described.
2. Fstablishient of baelinie qUality dtat Sampling and analysis to determine the chemical oomposi-
tion (naural quality) of soils, groundwater, surface water, and biota, as far as pible in their
uncontaminated state.
3. I Dflcation of sources of polltion. e nnition nd quantification of emissions. Delneation of
areal sources as well as point sources.
4. Characteri7ation of the diprsinn alnd depositon ptr of contaminants as well as levlso
mmiiqsion.IMvMtrUQij l..environment). Transport and deposition paern in groundwater.
rivers, lakes and thogh atmospheric fall-ut.
5.   sfi                           i        n. Biological effects of liquid and solid
waste in the aquatic as weU as the terrestrial envirnme
6. Assessment of health effects and     n c im         of polutnnt_. Direct health effects in
workes, and indiha public effects through contminated water.
7. Assessment of ecological and socio-economic impt of earth-moving- reshaping landspeR and
w     dum ng.
S. Overall vution and prorit-setfing. Pre-feasibi]ity studies and cost-benefit analyses for mitiga-
tion measues.
9. Development of an Environmentl Master Plan for the Omuro area Ihe plan should include guide-
lines for long-term environmental management, clear definition of critical remediation measures
with priorities, calculation of costs and tentative execution plans and proposals for financig.
IV. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVS
Ihe rpmmende pioities for an Environmental Mtigation Plan will be critical to the success of
BoUvia!s new efforts to improve envimnment management of the mining and industial sectors and
also to lay the gromndwork for successful design and implemention of the future enviromental
projects in these sectrs. The proposed areas of concentration are relatively disaeet and manageable,
facors that are important given the limited resources, especialy instittional capacity, tha are avail-
able in Bolivia. Other national planning issues, such as broader questions of land use and resource
132



management. are too diffuse and involve toD many legal and institutional uncertainties to make them
good candidates for activities designed specifically for the mining and industrial sectors.
The Study Team recommends focusing on program design and implementation, rather an drating
new legal requirements, for two reasons. First, there are already activities, including the JGF and
ETAP administered by the World Bank, to help with legal drafting - an activity that receives consi-
derable donor support already. Second, future environmental improvements in the mining and indus-
trial sectors will depend heavily on strengthening practical capabilites within Bolivia to identify envi-
ronmental problems and carry out needed improvements.
As for the proposed regional pilot activity, Ormo seems by far the most suitable area. None of the
other regions and ctues surveyed has a comparable mix of mining and industial activity affecting a
nearby, well defined urban area and an important ecosystem, including the special concerns of an
indigenous trbe. The problems of Potosi are in many ways unique to that area because of its extreme
dependeace on mining. The problems of El Alto and La Paz are closely tied to complex urban plan-
ning issues and have limited relation to curmnt mining activitics. Santa Cruz and Cochabamba also
lack a significant mining componenL Alluvial gold mining in parts of the Amazon basin locted in
Bolivia is anothfer unique case and it would be exceptionally difficult to monitor conditions there or to
cany out an extensive mitigation program
V. ENVIRONMNTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
Building institutional capacity for environmental management is proposed as a centll aspect of all
recommended activities. Participants should be drawn from the public and private sectors, including
government, commercial enteprises and organizations, umversities, reseach institutes, local communi-
ties and NGOs.
VL ENVIRONM!ENTAL MONITORING OF RECOMMENDED ACTIVITES
Developing criteria and podues  for monitoring environmental impacts o. the recommended activi-
ties will be one of the tasks in designing speific prqects.
133



PART 7: PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
The Study Team and Its Bolivin count- ts Consulted with a wide range of organizations within and
outside of governmenL A number of informal meetings were held vith the pnvate industry. represen-
ted by the National Chamber of Industry, anl the National Association of Medium Miners. This to
inform about the objective of the study, to hear the opinions of these organizations and to urge these
organizations to ta  active part in the imminent formulation of laws, regulations, and codes of con
duLm
L SEMINARS
As an intgad pa of the study pmgram, two seminars have been held in La Paz: a) a three-day
seminar on Mining and the Environment", with the parlicipation of three lecturers from Sweden; b) a
two0-ay seminar regarding "Environmental questions within the non-mining industrial sector", with
lecturers drawn from the SES team. The two seminats were a-rranged by SENMA. Each was attended
by about 60 professionals from the relevant sector. The seminrs included lectures within the foDow-
ing main themes:
General subjects (in summary; for details see Appendix E[[)
* Mining opeaions and their envinmnental consequences
* Measures for the protection of the environment in mining ventres
* Legal, economic. and strategic means for Improving the prtection of the enviomet as rcla-
ted to mining
a Environmental management and audits in the investigation of water quality in rivers and lakes
* Regulation of industrial contaminations
* Industrial occupational health and safety
Addressing Bo]ivian conditions
3 The environment In Bolivia, with case plesentations, international comparisons and reoommen-
datiDns
* Environmenta laws and regulations as applied in Latin Ameica
* Health and safety in Bohliv  industr observations, international companisons and recommen-
dations
* Panel debate concerning the Bolivian mining and the environment
* One-day case exercise (in work groups) in planning an environmentaly satisfactory mining
operation based on crtain given, fictitious conditons
Extensive and engaged discussions accompanied the differnt poinls of presentation. All lectues were
also distributed in written form.
134



EL CONSULTATIONS REGARDING THE FINAL REPORT
A daft Executive Summary and EA report (both translated into Spanish) wcre presented to SENMA
in mid-Apil 1993. SENMA circulated the draft for review to morm t   40 diffeent organizadons tha
reprsented a vride diversity of expertise and intests (see Appendix III). These organizations were
given two to tbree weeks to submit writn coomments on the drafL In lae May. core members of the
Study Team retuned to Bolivia to review these comments and onsult more closely with counterpans
and others at meetings organized by SENMA: one in Cochabamba on May 20, 1993 (in connection
with an inteational mining fair), with concentration on mining issues; and another In La Paz on May
24. 1993. focusing on the manufaing industry. These meetings had 25 and 12 participants, respec-
tively. Altogether 15 written comments have been received Ihe many valuable comments prxduced,
as well as opinions presented in the discussions. have helped appreciably in improving the report
135



PART 8: APPENDICES
OVERVIEW
Ths report is accompanied by he following appendices:
L  Ls of EA peparers
11  Bibloerahy
mL Program of seminarslist of consulted organizations
IV. Techical appendices'2 (two separate volumes)
1. Regulating industrial poflution in BoUvia (Faith Halter)
2. Instumentos economicos aplicables a la gesti6n ambiental de la minerfa e industia en Bolivia
(Marthadina Mendiz&bal de Finot)
3. Environmental laws and regulations related to mining and industry in Bolivia (Valeria Merino)
4. LabIatory facilities and capacities in Bolivia (Rudolf Reuther)
5.  Estimate of costs of remediation of tailings dcm in Bolivia (Anders Swartling)
6. The woring environment in Bolivia; expeiences and impressions (Bengt Knaborg)
7. MbIning versus agricultue In the Andacaba-La Lava area (Bo Lundberg)
8. The Millum tailings dam as source of water for La Paz (Bo Lundberg)
9. Environmental concerns in the Oruro area and Lake Poopo (Bo Lundbe)
10. The environmental situation in Potosi (Bo Lundberg)
11. Envimental siunlion in Bolivian manufactring industry (Lm LTnnxr)
12. Envimnmental code of practice for mining ventures (Anders Swarting, Bo Lundberg)
13. Solid and hazardous waste disposal in Bolivia (Rudolf Reutber)
12Part IV of the Appendices are workig papers prepared by individual consultants during the
EA process. In some instnces, they may not reflect the final conclusions of the Study Team, as
presented in this reporL
136



APPENDIX I
SECrORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
SECTIORS IN BOLIVIA
LIST OF EA PREPARERS
The following personnel have taken part in the preparation of the Assessment:
CONSULTANTS PERSONNEL (Swedish Environmental Systems)
Bo Lundberg          Mining spcialis (coordnatr)
Lars Landner         Industrial water specialst
Bengt Knaborg        Industrial heaIlth & safty spcdalist
Rudolf Reuther       Solid waste specalist
Anders Swartling     ndustrial economist
Faith Halter         Environmental regulatory spcialist
Valeria Meno         Evir          lawyer
COUNTERPART PERSONNEL
Guillermo Cortez     Geologist (coordinator)                  MMM
Julio LUanos         Water specialist                         SENMA
Freddy Olivera       Waste management speciali                SENMA
He-in Ferandez       Civil engeer                             SENMA
Hugo Medina         Industrial health & safety specalst       INSO
Jos6 Leyton          Lawyer                                   SENMA
J*aP&ikL.- iWYL e. EcoIogi.t                                  SENMA
SENMA LIAISON
Juan Carlos Enriques  Director, Enviomental Quality Control   SENMA
The final repart has been elaborated by the team with the following main  sponsibihties:
Bo Lundberg          Mining sectr, baseline data; general coordination
Lars Landuer        Industry (manufacturing) sector, baseli data
Bengt Knaborg        Industrial health & safety
Rudolf Reuther       Soid waste, laboratory capacty. mercary conminaon
Anders Swarting      Economics
Faith Halter         Policies and regulations; priority setting; executive summary; editing
Valeria Merino       Legal and institutional framework
1



Support has been given by the coumLerpari team as well as by the following persons:
Marthadina Mendiz7b  de
Fmot                              Bclivian economics and environment
Susanna Leyton Camardelle         Sociology
Adriana Walser                    Editing and traslations
2



APPENDIX II
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRlAL
SECTORS IN BOLIVIA
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Apaza, Roberto. 1992. Contamaon of lakes by mining efflueals. Seminario sobre Control de la
Contaminaci6n Ambiental Producida por la Industria Minera. La Paz, Bolivia.
Aramayo, Luis. 1992. Necesldad de estudio de impacto ambiental en las operaciones minems de
COMIBOL Seminaro sobre Control de la Contaminacifn Ambiental Producida por la Industla
Minem La Paz, Bolivia.
Asociaci6n Nacional de Mineros Medianos. 1992. La minerfa boliviana 1991. La Paz, Bolivia.
Bateman, D. 1992. Background of the Bolivian Mining, Agdculture and Manuactuing Sectoras. A
brief note. The Wold BankL
Beveridge, M., Stafford, E., and Coutts, R. 1985. Metal concentrations in tihe commercialy exploited
fishes of an endorheic saline lalke in the tin-silver province of Bolivia. Aquacultmre and Fisberies
Mlanagement 1985.
BHveridge, K  1983. Un estudio de los niveles de merales pesados en el Lago Poopo, Bolivia. Informe
par el Dm eo de Pesquerfas del Centro de desarollo Frestal.
British Columbia AMD Task Force. 1989. Draft acid rock drainage technical guide. vol 1.
Ckeres. J. M. 1992. Camiaci6n de aculferos por lixiviado de residLuos solidos urbanos: Caso de la
Ciudad de La Paz. Simposio sobr Rcursos Hidrios y Medo Ambiente, Codhabamba, pp. 211-219.
Cebem. 1992. Narcotafico y medio ambiente. Cuadernos del Cebem, No.5. La Paz. Bolivia.
CEMYD. 1992. Environmental management of miing companies in Bolivia: Implications for
environmental and industrial policies aiming at sustainable growth in low income developing counties.
Work in progress.
COMIBOL. 1989. Plan integral de saneamiento ambiental. La Paz, Dic 1989.
Coronado, F. 1992. Conini6n ambiental del Altiplano Central por acdvidaes minero-
melturgicas. Simposio sobre Recu.s(s Hidricos y Medio Ambiente, Cochabamba, pp. 229-234.
1



Dfaz Benavente. J. 1985. La contaminaci6'n originada por la industria en Bolivia. Taller sobre
Contaminacifn del Medio Ambiente en Bolivia, La Paz, nov. 1985.
Dfaz Benavente, J. 1986. La contaminaci6n originada por la industria en Bolivia. Memoria del Sim-
podo Ecol6gico: Impaao de Desarmllo en la Ecologla del Tr6pico Boliviano, Santa Cruz, pp. 43-69.
Dunan de la Fuente. H. y Castro, S. 1989. Impacto ambiental de la aaividad minera de Comibol en
Bolivia Informe para el Banco Mundial.
Fiseries Development LimitedL 1991. Fisberies Management Review, Bolivia. British Overseas
Development Administation.
Franken. M. y Sivlla, R 1992. Estdio limnologico de los dos del valle de La Paz en relaci6n a su
caldad de aguas. Ecologla en Bolivia. No. 19: 97-132.
Frankn, NI y Marnn, R. 1992. Influencia de una fabrica de estuco sobre un ecosistema acuatico en la
ciudad de La Paz. Emologfa en Bolivia No. 19: 73-96.
Garda Rivera, C. 1985. Contaminacidn amblental provocada por la industria metaldrgica instalada en
Bolivia Taler sobre Contaminaci6n del Medio Ambiente en Bolivia, La Paz, nov. 1985.
Gustavson Associates 1992. Compendium of the economic geology of Bolivia. Ministeio de Minerfa
y Metalurgfa, La Paz, Bolivia.
GutiEnez, Gualberto y Henmra. Jaime. 1992. Evaluaci6n de la agresividad de las aguas de copagira del
Centro Minero San Jose en hormigones y suelos. Simposio sobre recursos biducos y medio ambiente.
Cochabamba. Bolivia.
Hcrbas Vargas, R. y Velarde FlRos, R. 1985. Investigaci6n sobre la contaminaci6n originada por
desechos domnesticos en Bolivia. Taller sobre Contaminaci6n del Medio Ambiente en Bolivia, La Paz,
nov. 1985.
Hcrail, G. 1988. Los yacimientos de oro de Bolivia: Conecxto geol6gico y genetoo. Actas de segundo
Simposio de la Investigaci6n Francesa en Bolivia, pp. 10-16.
Ministerio de Urbanismo y Vivienda. 1990. Reglamento sobre lannmiento de desechos industriales en
cuerpos de agua. La Paz, Bolivia
Montes de Oca. Ismad. 1989. Geograffa y recursos natres de Bolivia. La Paz. Bolivia.
Municipalidad de Oruro, 1992. Plan de la gran reservaci6n lastre, flora y fauna del depaqamento de
Oniro. Oruro. julio 1992.
Nolan. Davis & Associates. 1988. An environmental overview of the mining sector in Bolivia. Repoat
to The World Bank.
2



Noas, P., Solis, G. and Torrico, Vilma. 1992. Impact of the minerals industry on the eaviromnent in
some areas of the depaitments of Oruro and Potosi. Bolivia: A preliminary study of stram waters and
sediments. Ministerio de Minerfa y Mctalurgfa: Proyecto de RchablUtacion del Sector Minero. Informe
BO-92005.
Pachec, M. G. 1992. Estudio de contaminacidn de recursos hidricos y edafol6gicms en el
Departamento de Potosi. Simposio sobre Rccoursos Hidricos y Medio Ambiente, Cochabamba, pp.
235-246.
P(fyry. 1. 1992. Establishment of a National Environmental Information System (NEIS), June 26. 1992.
The World Bank.
Quintanilla Aguiffe, J. 1988. La bidroqulmica del Lago TMticaca y su relacioa con el plancton. Actas
de Segundo Simposio de la Investigaci6n Francesa en Bolivia, pp. 114-125.
Quintea, CE 1991. Bolivia-s National Fund for the Environment A joint public-private effort to
organize the investment in the environment FONAMA, nDv 1991.
RIos Paz Solddn. C. 1985. Investigaci6n sobre la co i6n originada por la mineria en Bolivia.
Taller sobre Contamindn del Medio Ambiente en Bolivia, La Paz. nov. 1985.
SAGUAPAC, 1992. Resumen sobre el estado de las plantas de rAtamiento de SAGUAPAC, Santal
Cruz.
Salinas, Javier. 1993. Estudio elaborado pam el Plan de Acci6n Ambiental de Bolivia. Informe par la
Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambienoe. La Paz, Bolivia
SAMAPA, 1990. Memoria Anual 1990, Serviciao Autonomo Municipal de Agua Potable y
Alcantaillado, La Paz.
Schollaert, A 1992. Contaminact6n de aguas por la explotaci6n miners en las regiones de Uncia y
Otavi. Simposio sobre Recursos Ildricos y Medio Ambieate, Cochabamba, pp. 221-228.
SEARPI 1991. Proama de protecci6n contra las inundaiones - Santa Cruz. Plan diectivo de la
cuenca del Rfo Piraf. Anexo VHI: Estudio de contaminaci6n- Servicio Encauzamniento de Aguas y
Regularizaci6n del Rlo Piraf Sama Cruz. Junio 1991.
SEGMA-PAAB. 1992. QnU camno debemos andar. Elements para una poUtica ambientai boliviana-
Secmtarfa General del Medio Ambiente, La Paz.
SENMA. 1992. Taller Nacional de Planificaci6n Ambiental. Polftcas Nacionales de Gesti6n
Ambiental. Cochabamba, 19-21 aug. 1992.
Sociedad Boliviana de Ecologla. 1983. Mesa Redonda sobre Contaminaci6n de Aguas, 6-8 abril 1983.
La Paz
UNEP. 1991. Environmental aspects of selected non-ferrous metals ore mining. Paris.
3



Urqiidi, M. 1986. Petroleo y medio ambiente. Memoria del Simposio Ecol6gico: impacto del
Desarrollo en la Ecologfa del Tr6pico Boliviano, Sana Cmz, pp. 33-42.
Waldo Pearanda C. 1985. Enfoque genral de lat contaminaci6a ambiental. Taller sobre
Contzznnaid6n del Medio Ambiente en Bolivia. La Paz, nov. 1985.
Wasson, J.G. y Mann, R. 1988. Pnimeros dacs para una tipologfa ecologica de los rlos de alura en la
region de La Paz Actas del Segundo Simposio de la Investigaci6n Francesa en Bolivia, pp. 127-142.
Wheeler, D. 1992. The Economics of Industridal Pollution Control. An ltemallona Parspectve. The
World Bank
4



APPENDX III
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
SECTORS IN BOLIVIA
1.    Program for seminar regarding mining and environment, 27-29 January, 1993
2.    Program for seminar regarding industial contamination and occupational health and
safety, 11-12 February, 1993
3.    List of organizations consulted during the environmental assessmentwork
1



"PRIMER TALLER DE CAPACITACION SOBRE MINERIA Y MEDIO AMBIENTE"
SECRETARIA NACIONAL DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE
MINISTERIO DE MINERIA Y METALURGIA
FONDO NACIONAL PARA EL MEDIO ANBIENTE
AGENCIA DE COOPERACION SUECA
del 27 aL 29 de enero 1993
PROGRAMA
DIA 1 /27-1-93 / SALON JACARANDA - PLAZA HOTEL
8:00      Registro e inscripci6n de participantes
8:30      Acto Inaugural: Palabras del Sr. Ministro de Mineria
y Metalurgia,
Inauguraci6n del Sr. Gerardo Aguirre
Ministro Secretario Nacional del Media Ambiente
Presentacion de objetivos y metodologla
Ver6nica L6pez A.
9:00      OPERACIONES MINERAS Y SUS CONSECUENCIAS AMBIENTALES
Presentacifn del tema:Impactos ambientales de la
Mineria : Dan Nilsson
- introduccion y antecedentes
- panorama de los imipactos ambientales
- desarrollo tdcnico y econ6mico
- consumo de energia
- reciclaje
9:45      Preguntas y respuestas
10:00     Receso
10:20     Presentaci6n del Tema: Emisiones provenientes de la
Mineria y del Procesamiento de Minerales: Per Broman
- emisiones de agua y aire, ruidos, vibraciones,etc.
- mineria a cielo abierto y subterrAnea
- concentracion de minerales
- fundici6n de los concentrados
- refinaci6n de metales
11:15     Preguntas y respuestas
11:30     Presentaci6n del Tema:Emisiones de Residuos  : Tom
Lundgren
- ubicaci6n de los deshechos mineros
- drenaje Scido de mina
- estudio de casos
12:15     Preguntas y respuestas



2
12:30     Receso
14:30     MEDIDAS DE PROTECCION AMBIENTAL EN MINERIA
Presentaci6n del Tema: Protecci6n Ambiental en la
Operaci6n Minera : Per Broman
- proceso de purificaci6n del aire
- tratamiento de aguas
- control del polvo, ruidos y vibraciones
15:15     Preguntas y Respuestas
15:30     Presentaci6tn del Tema: Previsi6n del Drenaje Acido de
la de Mina : Tom Lundgren
- proceso de meteorizaci6n
- pruebas de laboratorio y a pequefha escala
- la influencia de los hidrSulicos
- Evaluaciones
16:15     Preguntas y Respuestas
16:30     Receso
17:00     Presentacion del Tema: Costos y Rentabilidad de la
Protecci6n Ambiental: Dan Nilsson
- costos de la protecci6n ambiental
- introduccion a la teoria de inversi6n y estudios de
rentabilidad de las medidas de protecci6n ambiental
- contabilidad ambiental nacional
17:45     Preguntas y respuestas
18:00     Presentacin de videos sobre la tematica
18:30     Fin del Primer dia
DIA 2/ 28-1-93
8:30      Presentacion del Tema: Protecci6n ambiental en Mina y
Disefio de la Planta : Dan N'.lsson
- limites y profundidad del tajo abierto
- mineria de superficie y subterrarnea
- nuevos mentodos de mineria
- selecci6n de equipos
- disefio de la planta
9:1F      Preguntas y respuestas
Presentacion del Tema: Protecci6n ambiental en el
procesamiento de minerales : Per Broman
- proceso de purificaci6n del aire
- tratamiento del agua
- secado de concentrados



3
- lixiviaci6n
- procesos de fundicifr  y refinaci6n
- control del polvo, ruidos y vibraciones
10:15     Preguntas y respuestas
10:30     Receso
11:00     Presentaci6n. del Tema: Medidas de Prevenci6n contra el
Drenaje Acido de Mina : Tom Lundgren
- posibles medidas para contrarestarlo
- desviaci6n de las aguas limpias
- recolecci6n y tratamiento
- coberturas secas y h(umedas
11:45     Preguntas y Respuestas
12:00     Receso
14:30     MEDIOS  LEGALES,  ECONOMICOS  Y  ESTRATEGICOS  PARA
REFORZAR LA PROTECCION AMBIENTAL
Presentaci6n   del   Temna:   Medios   Econ6micos   y
Regulaciones Gubernamentales : Dan Nilsson
- politicas ambientales
- legislaci6n y penalidades
- nedios economicos
15:15     Preguntas y respuestas
15:30     Presentaci6n del Tema: Estrategia de Reducci6n de la
Poluci6n Existente : Tom Lundgren
- ninas abandonadas
- clausura de minas
- programas de monitoreo
16:15     Preguntas y respuestas
16:30     Receso
17:00     Presentacion del Tema: Programas para las Empresas
Per Broman
- organizaci6n
- monitoreo
- auditoria
- informaci6n
17:45     Preguntas y respuestas
18:00     Panel  de  Discusi6n:   Posibles  Estrategias  para
implementar y Reforzar la Protecci6n Ambiental en
Bolivia.
18:30     Fin del segundo dia.



4
DIA 3/ 29-1-93
8:30      Organizaci6n de Grupos:
Tema: Preparaci6n de un Plan de Protecci6n Ambiental
para una Compafiia Minera o Proyecto Minero.
Grupo 1: PlanificaCi6n de un Nuevo Proyecto Minero
Responsable: Dan Nilsson.
Grupo 2: Planificaci6n de la Protecci6n Ambiental en
la Mineria y en el Procesamiento de Minerales.
Responsable: Per Broman
Grupo 3: Planificaci6n de la Ubicaci6n de Residuos y
el Cierre de Minas.
Responsable: Tom Lundgren
9:00      Trabajo en grupos
10:30     Receso
10:50     Continua el trabajo en grupos
12:30     Receso
14:30     Plenaria: Presentacifn de los resultados de los grupos
de trabajo.
Grupo 1: Informe
Discusi6n
Revisi6n
15:15     Grupo 2: Informe
Discusi6n
Revisi6n
16:00     Grupo 3: Informe
Discusi6n
Revisi6n
16:45     Receso
17:00     Acto de Ciausura: Palabras de los Sres. Ministro de
Mineria y Metalurgia: Ing. Alvaro Rejas, y Ministro
Secretario Nacional del Medio Anbiente Sr. Gerardo
Aguirre Ulloa.



WORKING SESSION (A)
Task: Preparation of an environmental protection plan for a mining comp.
or a mining project
AN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PLAN
The knowledge of the pollution sources and the processes generating the
poUutions forms the basis for an environmental protection plan.
An environmental protection plan may consist of the following units:
*    Survey of potential pollution sources and existing "background
conditions"
*    Description of the processes generating the potential pdllutions
*    Charting of objects sensible to the potential pollutions
*    Prioritizing subjects for protective measures
*    List of potential protective measures
*    Setting the objectives for land reclamation/future land use plans
*    Recycling possibilities and water saving measures
*    Energy consumption calculations and fuel alternatives
*    Description of other potential protective measures
*    Cost estimates for protective measures
e    Prioritizing protective measures
*    Time plan and budget for conducting a protection plan
*    Management of the protection plan - organization, impact on the
operations, payment schedule, etc.
*    Monitoring program
The taslc
Due to the short time available, the working session task has to be restricted
is confined to some of the most important measures which are actual at the
planning stage of a new mining project. The objective is not that the
participants shall give thorough and detailed descriptions of an EP-plan and
make correct calculations but they should report the basic ideas behind such
plan and implement some evaluations on the operation related to the
environment.



2
Ore. rr:ining capacity  Porphyry Copper Ore, 5 Mions of ore/year
Geology             Gneisses and quartzite form the main part of the bedrock. Calc
practically non-existent. Chalcopyrite is the only mineral of
economic importance and occurs together with pyrite, magnet
and pyrrhotite. The mineralization occurs mainly as
disseminations and stringers in the bedrock.
The ore has a length of about 1,000 m and a width of 200 m. Th
surface area is 500,000 m2 with an average grade of 0.7 % Cu.
The ore dips at 600 from the horizontal plane.
Overburden is some 10 m till above scattered sublayers of sand
The till is partly clayey and covered by peat in some local
depressions of the basement.
Ore reserve         Mine planning has resulted in three different alternatives witl
the following total ore and waste quantities (mill tons):
Waste and    Incremental
Ore          Overburden   Stripping Ratic
Alt. 1         30             30          1:1
2          60             75          1:1.5
3          90            135          1:2
Optimum alternative is to be selected.
AMD-properties      Testing has revealed that footwall rock partly consists of rock w
insufficient pH-buffering capacity. Disposal of that rock without
any preventive measures is likely to result in acid-rnine-draina.
The amount of AMD-producing waste rock< is 20 % of total wast
rock quantity. Tailings from processing of the ore will also havw
AMD-producing characteristics.



3
Mining method,       The ore is to be mined in open pit.
transport and
stockpiling          Waste rock will be transported by trucks.
Ore will first be transported by trucks to a primary crusher on tH
surface. Later, when mining has reached deeper benches, an in-
crushing and conveying system can be constructed, driven by
electricity from a water power station in the area.
The price for diesel-fuel is today low, but the government plans
introduce a carbondioxide charge on top of the price for diesel f:
to reduce the use of fossil fuels in the contry.
The type of haulage system for the fiuture is to be recommendes
Crushed ore wlill be conveyed to a stockpile.
Waste rock disposal   Waste rock will be disposed off in an area to be selected.
Processing           Processing will take place in a concentrator the siting of which i.
be selected. Crushed ore will be fed into a two-stage autogenous
grinding system with spiral classifiers and hydrocyclones. Cyclo
overflow will be piped to conditioners ahead of flotation and
further flowing by gravity into copper rougher flotation banks
followed by copper scavenger flotation banks. Rougher concenti
will be pumped to cleaners, set up in three cascade stages. Roug.
reject and scavenger concentrates will be reground in a ball mill
operating in closed circuit with a hydrocydone, the overflow of
which will be returned to the conditioner ahead of the copper
roughers.
Process water consumption is estimatec at 4 m3/ton of ore.
Flotation reagents used will be slaked lime (1 kg/ton of ore),
sodiumisopropanylxanthate (15 g/ton of ore) and MIBC (5 g/tor
ore).



4
Concentrate will be thickened in round thickeners and dewatere
in a way to be selected. The amount of concentrate (dry weight) i.
percent of ore feed.
Tailings will be pumped to an area to be selected. Disposal is to b
made by a method to be selected.
Concentrate shipping Concentrate is to be surface transsported to a smelter at a distance
200 km. Mode of transportation is to be selected.
Water management  The annual net precipitation (precipitation minus evaporation):
500 mm. Water is not scarce but the mine is in an ecologically
sensitive area with a demand on mirnimum raw water rccovery 
well as process water discharge. A water management system
should be selected for that purpose.
The quantity of water discharged from the area should not exceec
the runoff quantity. The water treatment installations should be
designed and dimensioned to meet the following discharge
quality criteria: pH 7-8, dissolved copper 0.02 mg/i, TSS <5 mg/l.
Surrounding          Not far from the mine site is a valley with active farming.
Through the valley flows a river with an average flow of 50 m3/s
supplying the farming area with water for the agriculture and
stock as well as drinking water. Waters upstream the mine is
unaffacted by human processes. Some 15 kIn downstream the
mine there is a small town using the surface and ground waters
for drinking purpose. A side valley is stretching up to a plateau
close to the mine. See attached map.
Monitoring           A monitoring program for air and water quality related to fish an
wildlife is going to be established-
The exercise task could be summerized into the following
subtasks:



5
1. Siting of units
- deposit of waste rock
- concentrator
- tailings impoundment
2. Selection of methods
- incremental stripping ratio in mining
- water management
- concentrate dewatering
- transportation mode for concentrate
- disposal method
3. Design of systems
- Xvater treatment
- monitoring program



ao                0
a
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
I km           ~~Sketch map ofthesite



LA CONTAMINACION INDUSTRIAL7 Y LA SALUD OCUPACIONAL
Hotel Plaza
PROGRAMA
DIA I, jueves 11 de Febrero
ANTECEDENTES
8:30      Presentacifr del tema: Utilizaci6n de recursos y la salud
ocupacional en la industria manufacturera. (Lars Landner)
9:30      Preguntas y respuestas
9:50      Receso
10:20     Presentaci6n del tema: Manejo y auditorias ambientales en
la industria. (Lars Landner)
11:20     Preguntas y respuestas
12:00     Receso
14:30     Presentacion del tema: Regulaci6n de la contaminaci6n
industrial,                                        (Faith
Halter)
15:15     Preguntas y respuestas
15:30     Presentacifn del tema: Regulaci6n de la contaminaci6n
industrial, la coordinaci6n institucional. (Valeria
Merino Dirani)
16:15     Preguntas y respuestas
16:30     Receso
16:50     Presentacifn del tema: La salud ocupacional en general y
el caso de Suecia. (Bengt Knaborg)
17:35     Preguntas y respuestas
18:00     Receso



DIA II, viernes 12 de Pebrero
PLANIFICACIONI Y EJECUCION DE MONITOREO AEBIENTAL E IRITERPRETACION
DE RESULTADOS
8:30      Presentacion del tema: Investigaciones sobre calidad del
agua en rios y lagos; estudios con relaci6n. al uso de
efluentes para irrigaci6n. (Lars Landner)
9:30      Preguntas y respuestas
10:00     Receso
10:20     Presentacifn del tema: Estudios de Impacto Ambiental,
alcance y temas. (Lars Landner)
11:20     Preguntas y respuestas
12:00     Receso
14:30     Presentacion del tema: La salud ocupacional en Bolivia,
observaciones y prioridades. (Bengt Knaborg)
15:15     Preguntas y respuestas
15:30     Presentacion del tema: El medio ambiente en Bolivia y
otras regiones importantes, estudio de casos, propuesta
de soluciones. (Lars Landner)
16:15     Preguntas y respuestas
16:30     Receso
16:50     Discusi6n General, presentacion de informaci6n.
17:30     Preguntas y respuestas
18:00     Receso



AGENDA DE INSTITUCIONES VINCULADAS A LA CONTAMINACION INDUSTRIAL Y MINERA
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA                                                                        Aim agqmcW*A ou  r   _        caa.
IAPAZ                                    nun. lWaaP
_                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~IPaZ   _-U                                               ecimaoWan
t                                                 ~~~~~~~LA PM                         W  NMiOWAwVlm                    aasmaaoua
* cowo   _a. OEaaU  Nu AS "A                                        jAPAs .
I"C"Mm"iA  N DSAruO  Ih a                                            LA PAZ
ii  WDROm CmAUaj me owP.-mga  Utc                                    APAIZ                                  ML mum iaaac                  NIn
iI*Ma             WAL cD_ O1RWA                            u         _ _rwmAml SPC  jP.,Wu  na,A
I. DRZ EuiiMAMCALOCIUMaA JnS         NLA PAZ                                          30amuvk
* cami      IACe O.                                                   P.z                   _nI                                           c
_OOIMO OtXF                                                     LAPAZ
*  ,iSIUUYf Nuamma IAANI   n                                         in P AZ F&nEa   UaZre.CZux-
.    SO. ACU W MaLOO M LAPAZ                                         LA PAZ                                 AL _  _Un
_    r        _    es eeernlxoofmlw w.0m" .AA eo                                              Or                   C                         nI
asmannoTo m acALemm                                                    PM Pal                                                               .tA
ag1tm$F-W0 AUTOSCMA %PIAm - OAingLanI PAR                                                                  se.hAes FA                    NC?ORN      A
IF milma    IA  SL UON cOisCUACIiMRAna Oa                           LA PalamPtiiiit    Of-l                       XAO.a SiMP    nuV      incIAbnIU
U  mIniof AnguSA ic¶u0                                               %a. h PM                   c
u- UAMAWCAnOIDW.OUm,.?LDIIOliaPO1aasEVa&CnUkOAMAPOW.MA               LA PAZ                                 in.m         aDMMKIK 1MM
U  ,.wrc ,OuIt.Dn Of OKmwi-a.01060                                 mnPAl                                  emmanLUWAM                   omic,usIagcun
SpaaaU 1        m5C.0 0haDIO-OLOMMIMMh-A nts                          auAaM                                 Plan  TIIlA
30 CAlsMWAWARTINWALOI U.IIIU. aNA ACu*                               amnlAU            Ur q"-"3um           rnna   alsc.LnIN? AgUs.
on eeWC    ^sce a-con                           wornc                           lg      MNE             CALGDRO
-9 veAPPtuniwnL tammveina puMa SAA cummi.maia                        tAIMLaiU                 hU               CmrR
P. ism-                                                              lMLVT^CP%W_ .-
a  IAlNn.nosPII7q.am  ronM.t Ns.u-iOa                  uAT  u a.? rNa U   m.Alm                             mm ErniE Imm"A.
_   eMa    PANTMTL DE   ll?MCW-A.MMA                                  mea..a.."a       a-.  p      ft         . Lra FAKW A UPUUUNPbMUM
ii OOnSIniD DIASLLO Ag COCNASAA eiwCO                                mauCml
a   as-ama inAiM1a mva   -AWOO  Sa          U                        mci.aaaasu
a    UMCIo 01AIMPOIAMZVALCaANLO.SUMa                                 C CoJnAMl
x         "U"Coa Loomam OnM                                                                           El, auIZN   AM                     IL ALCMMn^  MNIUNK _
a  gwma maWiAL 01 PsNn~~~~~~~~~~sEORURWailS                                                       aAPINOCrPIAC.iZS
*  cOaamaomDI Oglainil                                               bED NAlm  caL
_~~~~~D MAVOL as                                                                                                                         DCO
ci lORAoUUDIf 5AM.O.0 0I POISW
PJLLC






