Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6668-BO
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 7.4 MILLION (US$11.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1995)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 1.00 = US$0.21
US$1.00 = Bs 4.73
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVL4 FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COMIBOL-   Bolivian Mining Corporation (Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia)
ECU       -   Environmental Coordinating Unit
EPC       -   Environmental Project Coordinator
EIA       -   Environmental Impact Assessment
FDC       -   Small-Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIS       -   Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FNDR    -   Regional Development Fund (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional)
EBRD      -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBNORCA -   Bolivian Institute of Standards and Quality (Instiluto Boliviano de
Normalizacion y Calidad)
IDA       -   International Development Association
IDB       -   Inter-American Development Bank
IE       -   Ecological Institute at Universidad Mayor de San Andres (Instituto de Ecologia)
IG       -   Geological Research Institute at Universidad Mayor de San Andres (Instituto de
Investigaciones Geol6gicas)
MED       -   Ministry of Economic Development
MoF       -   Ministry of Finance
MSDE    -   Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
MSRP    -   Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
NDF       -   Nordic Development Fund
SCU      -   Sectoral Coordinating Unit
SDR      -   Special Drawing Rights
SoM      -   Secretariat of Mines
SPC      -   Sectoral Project Coordinator



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Bolivia
Implementing        Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
Agencies:           and Ministry of Economic Development
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment; the Secretariat of
Mining; COMIBOL; Institute of Geological Research; Institute of Ecology;
and Bolivian Institute of Standards and Quality
Poverty:            Not applicable
Amount:             SDR 7.4 million (US$1 1.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA; 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:  0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the IDA credit and NDF cofinancing would be transferred
to Beneficiaries as a grant
Financing Plan:     See Schedule A
Net Present Value:  Investments in mine site remediation to reduce damage to human health,
infrastructure, and ecosystems would be selected based on cost-benefit
or cost-effectiveness criteria, as data permit. While economic returns from
individual remediation subprojects would depend upon local conditions,
investments in several other Bank and IDA-supported environmental projects
have estimated rates of return exceeding 200/o. No NPV is calculable for
technical assistance activities or for remediation activities undertaken to
further private investment in the COMIBOL mines.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 14885-BO
Project Identification
Number:             BO-PA-6 186
MAP:                IBRD 27222
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Repub'ic of Bolivia for SDR 7.4 million (the equivalent of US$11.0 million), on
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, to help fiance an Environment, Industiy and
Mining Project. The Project would be cofinanced by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) on
terms similar to IDA's. The proceeds of the credit and the NDF cofinancing would be transferred
on a grant basis to the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment and to the Ministry
of Economic Development.
2.    Country/Sector Background. In Bolivia, non-agricultural economic activity has been
concentrated in mining, petroleum extraction, agricultural and forestry industries, textiles and light
manufacturing. These activities, which will likely underpin the country's economic development in
the medium-term, have grown with little concern for environmental protection or worker health and
safety. In the case of mining, Bolivia has been a commercial producer (mainly silver, tin) since the
sixteenth century. Since the 1950s, a significant share of the industry has been operated by
COMIBOL, the State-owned mining company. In response to the need for capital and management
improvements, COMIBOL is withdrawing from production operations, and will remain as a
contract administrator. It has reduced its operations, and has begun to offer its economically-viable
mines and smelters for private participation. Some properties have been closed; others are being
leased or offered for outright sale, or in the case of the Vinto smelter, for inclusion in the
Government's Capitalization Program. The latter Program is designed to attract private investment
into key State-owned enterprises, and to distribute Govermnent-owned shares to privately-managed
pension funds for the benefit of the Bolivian population. IDA is supporting mining sector
restructuring under the ongoing Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project (MSRP), and the wider
Capitalization Program through the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit. The mining sector
restructuring aims at establishing an enabling envirornent for private development of the sector,
based on the reform and modernization of the legal and institutional framework. In the case of
industry, apart from three cement plants, manufacturing is relatively underdeveloped, though
medium and smaller-scale operations exist near major cities. Principal activities center on textiles,
leather products, food and beverage products and wood processing.
3.    Environmental Problems in Industry and Mining. In the case of industry, pollution
originates mainly from the discharge of untreated effluents to rivers or inadequate municipal sewage
systems. Instances of localized air pollution also arise in mining and industry, e.g. from smelters,
refineries, or cement plants. In the COMIBOL mining centers that would be covered by the
Project, past and ongoing mining activities have created numerous sources of contamination which
affect surface water (and in some cases, groundwater), air, and soil. Tailings from the mills, waste



2
rock, underground and open-pit mine workings, roads, wastewater ponds, landfills, and smelters
are among the potential existing sources of mining-related pollution.
4.    In addition, mine waste has been used extensively in mining communities to build
impoundments, roads, and common areas such as playgrounds and sports fields. Many of these
structures continue to release metals through the acid-generating process. Inhabitants of the mining
communities frequently come into direct contact with the mine waste; children play on or adjacent
to tailings and waste rock piles, and people build houses directly on old tailings. However it is
important to note that contact -- even direct contact -- does not presuppose risk. Mine waste is
highly variable, both in toxicity and in bioavailability. For example, some forms of arsenic or of
lead are not readily absorbed into the human body, and therefore do not pose a significant risk to
human health.
5.    The environment in mining towns is also polluted by the contaminants typical of poor
communities in many developing countries.  For example, drinking water is frequently
contaminated with bacteria and fecal coliform, and ambient air is contaminated with dust from
industrial and combustion sources, lead from smelters and vehicle exhaust, and sulfur dioxide from
smelters. In many mining communities, these pollutants may be causing more damage to human
health than heavy metal pollution from mining.
6.    In the context of restructuring the mining sector, COMMIOL  is commissioning
environmental audits for a priority set of fourteen mining properties. In addition, the ongoing
Oruro Pilot Project being carried out through the Secretariat of Mines is conducting an
environmental assessment of an important mining region of Bolivia which contains several
COMIBOL properties. Together, these studies will identify major environmental problems at
various sites, provide data to inform the assignment of environmental liabilities between parties to
divestment transactions, and define cost-effective, site-specific, remediation plans.
7.    Institutional Framework  for Environmental Management.   Due to  growing
environmental concern, in 1991/92 the (then) Government established the National Secretariat for
the Environment (SENMA) with IDA's support. It also issued a National Environmental Action
Plan and passed an umbrella Environmental Law. The present Government has indicated its
commitment to environmental management by establishing a Ministry of Sustainable Development
and Environment (MSDE). The MSDE -- which absorbed SENMA and the Planning Ministry -- is
charged with formulating and implementing national policies to encourage development with
concern for the environment. Presently, MSDE, through its Subsecretariat of Environment, (which
is responsible for EIA and enforcement activities), is promulgating initial national environmental
regulations. However, the staff of MSDE is still small and has limited practical experience.
Moreover, the baseline information, laboratory capacity, and environmental management policies
and concrete action plans based on a sound assessment of environmental priorities at the national
and regional levels all remain to be refined. IDA, IDB and bilateral donors are supporting MSDE's
programs, which now need to be made tangible inter alia through institutional strengthening of
MSDE and line agencies; development of baseline data and procedures to support EA and



3
compliance monitoring of greenfield and ongoing operations; implementation, and ultimately
refinement, of sectoral environmental regulations, standards, and codes of practice; strengthening
of environmental testing laboratories, (so that locally-conducted analyses have credibility in Bolivia
and abroad, and are able to support a national environmental monitoring system); and improvement
of the Government's capacity to communicate to stakeholders concerning risks to health and the
environment due to pollution. The IDB has approved a project for MSDE aimed at strengthening
its management systems and staffing, especially outside La Paz.
8.    Project Objectives. The Project would: (i) support the implementation and refinement of a
regulatory framework to assure that privately-led mining and industrial activities grow in a more
environmentally-friendly fashion; (ii) help remediate contamination from past mining activities for
which the State accepts liability, including remediation activities that help facilitate private
investment in the mining sector; and (iii) assist in attracting non-Project resources (e.g. from the
FIS, FNDR, or FDC) for investments which are not eligible for financing under the Project in
mining communities, in order to address urgent environmental problems, e.g. for potable water and
sanitation. Monitoring indicators to judge Project outputs and impact are included at Schedule B.
9.    Project Description. The Project has been designed based upon the findings of a 1993
sectoral environmental assessment for the mining and industrial sectors, as well as a number of
studies carried out during Project preparation (e.g. on the adequacy of laboratory testing services;
on the treatment of environmental liabilities in the privatization process; and on the development of
risk-based selection criteria for publicly-funded remediation investments in mining). The Project
would include components as follows:
1.    Studies to Support the Development of the Regulatory Framework
10.   The Project would finance two studies aimed at improving environmental management, both at
the national level as well as in the important regions of Santa Cruz, Cochabamba and El Alto (La Paz).
The studies would be contracted by MSDE and would include two types of tasks. First, tasks aimed at
basic data collection would (i) collect and analyze data to identify the mines and industries with
significant environmental impacts; (ii) collect and analyze baseline ambient water quality data for
selected surface and subterranean water bodies; and (iii) evaluate the potential costs and benefits of
pollution prevention measures in firms in the leather-tanning, meat, and brick-making industries, sugar
refineries and distilleries, and cement plants. Second, tasks aimed at policy development and
implementation would (i) assist MSDE and MED, in conjunction with the mining and industrial
sectors, to develop and implement (through training) improved policies and procedures for
environmental assessment for investments in the respective sectors; (ii) design a system of incentives to
encourage adoption of improved environmental practices at the firm level; (iii) develop and help
implement a mechanism for financing remediation of contamination from past mining activities on a
long term-basis; (iv) identify sources of hazardous waste, characterize hazardous wastes, and design
and help implement a regulatory framework to manage them; (v) review and update ambient quality
standards and discharge standards for the industrial and mining sectors; (vi) develop and help
implement a national strategy for environmental monitoring and enforcement; and (vii) develop and



4
help implement a national strategy to communicate to the public risks to health and the environment
from pollution, based on the best scientific knowledge.
11.   One important output from the various studies would be a set of agreed action plans for
Santa Cruz, Cochabamba and El Alto, which could form the basis for future environmental
improvement projects in each region. Studies would include training components for local staff, to
maximize technology transfer. These programs are estimated to cost US$4.0 million (18% of total
Project costs). Costs are based upon professional judgments regarding required manpower input
and unit costs, and the cost of similar studies in other countries.
2.    Laboratory Upgrading
12.   The Project would implement a program to upgrade the quality of laboratory testing
services in Bolivia, to foster development of a credible environmental standards-setting and
monitoring system. The Project would support a range of activities, acceptable to IDA, to be
proposed by Instituto de Investigaciones Geol6gicas (IG) and Instituto de Ecologia (IE) at the
Universidad Mayor de San Andres, Instituto Boliviano de Nomalizaci6n y Galidad (IBNORCA), or
MSDE. As a first step, at Project inception MSDE would contract two technical assistance
activities, respectivelv to: (i) conduct an inventory of laboratories in Bolivia, to assess the local
capacity to provide environmental testing services, and prepare forecasts of the regional demand for
various analytical services for environmental monitoring; and (ii) design and reach consensus upon
the policy and institutional framework for a national standardization and quality system, which is
essential for the widespread accreditation of labs. Following completion of these initial activities,
the Project wouid support a range of self-improvement programs to be proposed by IG, IE,
IBNORCA, or MSDE, through the Environmental Coordinating Unit (ECU) (para. 19). Activities
to be supported would include: (i) consulting services, study tours, and short training courses
sponsored by MSDE and/or IBNORCA to implement the policy and institutional framework
within which credible laboratory-based environmental testing services could develop; (ii)
participation in proficiency testing programs with reputed laboratories to enable IG and IE to
determine the relative level of their capabilities; (iii) studies to assist in achieving international
accreditation of IG and'or IE; (iv) preparation of market surveys, feasibility studies, business
plans, and related facility improvement programs for IG, IE, or IBNORCA; (v) training
activities sponsored by IG, IE, IBNORCA, or MSDE to improve the quality of laboratory
operations or field sampling methods in Bolivia; (vi) capital improvement programs for IG,
IE, or IBNORCA, including services, goods and civil works. Such programs would need to
be justified on the basis of feasibility studies and sound business plans, and be linked to the
improvement of environmental testing services in Bolivia; and (vii) activities sponsored by
MSDE, IE, IG, or IBNORCA to develop a professional association of laboratories in Bolivia.
13.   The program is estimated to cost US$2.0 million (9% of total Project costs). Costs are
based upon professional judgments regarding manpower inputs, unit costs, and the likely absorptive
capacity of related institutions during the Project period.



5
3.    Remediation Investments
14.   A list of mine sites to be considered as possible candidates for environmental improvement
interventions has been prepared on the basis of risk-based eligibility criteria tailored to the mining
sector. These criteria included, inter alia, the impact that mining pollution would reasonably have
on human health, economic activities or ecosystems for each site. For each of these sites,
environmental audits would provide information to identify a range of environmental management
measures (e.g. potable water, sanitation, urban paving for dust control, remediation of mine tailing
piles, control of the flow of acid mine drainage etc.) which show promise of yielding the highest
benefits for the resources used, if carried out in the specific locale. The highest yielding -- and
therefore priority -- measures may or may not, in any specific mining community, include
remediation of contamination from past mining activities. The Project would finance only eligible
subprojects comprising priority environmental management measures which (i) had their origin in
mining activities; (ii) were the responsibility of the State under Bolivia's environmental liability
provisions; and (iii) could not be addressed with financing through established municipal and rural
development programs. The Project would also assist communities in accessing non-Project sources
of funding for priority investments which did not satisfy the above-mentioned eligibility criteria by
financing consultants employed by the Secretariat of Mines. These consultants would work with
the mining communities to identify and prepare projects for funding from various non-Project
financing sources.
15.   An initial set of environmental management measures which demonstrate prima facie
promise of yielding adequate economic returns has been agreed with MSDE and MED to be
considered for the San Jose, Huanuni and Colquiri mines. Detailed plans for the remediation
activities, and associated cost-benefit studies would be prepared for each eligible subproject, and
those investments with acceptable economic returns would be proposed to IDA for financing under
the Project. In addition, the Project would, as a priority, finance remediation activities that remove
impediments to private investment in COMIBOL mines. The methodology for carrying out cost-
benefit studies, and associated investment decision criteria, would be included in an Operational
Manual to be adopted under the Project as a condition of Effectiveness. The remediation program
is estimated to cost US$6.0 million (27% of total Project costs).
4.    Technical Assistance and Training to Support Environmental Management in Mining
16.   The Project would include financing for consulting services, equipment and training to
assist the Secretariat of Mines to improve environmental management in the mining sector, and
COMIBOL to benefit from technical studies related to preparation of eligible subprojects, as well
as to inform its broader environmental management efforts in its various mines. The activities to be
supported under the Project would complement those environmentally-related activities being
supported under the MSRP, and would include: (i) engineering plans for remediation; (ii) assistance
to develop an environmental monitoring program to collect data on ambient air, water, and soil
conditions, and on human health impacts; (iii) development and dissemination of Codes of Practice
to enable mine operators to comply with emergent environmental Regulations; (iv) development of



6
procedures for miiie penritting, inspection, enforcement, reclamation and closure, including
methods of financial assurance to ensure compliance; and (v) basic hydrological studies for various
COMIBOL mine sites, inter alia to enable COMIBOL to prepare mitigation plans for properties to
be transferred to the private sector, or ciosed. Hydrological data would also be used to complement
data sets on geology and geochemistry which are being developed in conjunction with a pilot
Geographic Information System (GIS) under the ongoing MSRP, and would thereby further the
capacity of the GIS to inform site-specific environmental risk assessment in the mining sector. This
would open up possibilities for more efficient environmental regulation of mining operations. This
program is estimated to cost US$4.5 million (20% of total Project costs).
17.   Project Costs and Financing. Total Project costs are estimated to be US$22.0 million.
The financing plan includes US$1 1.0 million equivalent from the proposed IDA credit. Retroactive
financing for up to US$600,000 equivalent would be provided to finance Project start-up costs
incurred after October 31, 1995, and initially covered by bridge financing provided by the
Government. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) is expected to provide SDR 5.0 million
(US$7.5 million equivalent); the Government would provide the balance of US$3.5 million, which
includes an estimated US$2.5 million in local taxes charged against Project activities. Schedules A,
and C through E summarize, respectively, the estimated Project costs and financing plan;
procurement methods and disbursement forecasts; a timetable of the Project's key processing
events; and the latest "Status of Bank Group Operations" in Bolivia.
18.   Project Organization and Implementation. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Bolivia, represented by the Ministry of Finance (MoF). The MoF would delegate to MSDE the
responsibility for implementing regulatory studies and the laboratory upgrading component.
Similarly, the Secretariat of Mines in MED would be delegated responsibility for implementing
studies, training, and iemediation investment programs in mining, including those activities for
which COMIBOL would be the direct beneficiary. To give autonomy to the different Ministries
(i.e. MSDE and MED) in carrying out Project activities, a Special Account would be established in
the Central Bank on behalf of each Ministry. Each Special Account would bear its own authorized
allocation and initial deposit. The MSDE would carry out activities or transfer goods or works
contracted on beneficiaries' behalf under the laboratory upgrading programs on the basis of
agreements between MSDE and the respective agencies.  The MED would carry out technical
assistance activities and transfer goods and works procured on COMIBOL's behalf under the terms
of an agreement between the Secretariat of Mines and COMIBOL.
19.   The MSDE  would implement its Project components through an Environmental
Coordinating Unit (ECU) located in the Subsecretariat of Environment, and headed by an
Environmental Project Coordinator (EPC). The ECU's staff would be complemented by at least
one full-time expert with broad experience in managing environmental management studies. The
EPC would have access to resources to hire additional expertise as required.



7
20.   The ECU would procure the regulatory framework studies under the Project, as well as
consulting services, equipment, and civil works on behalf of beneficiaries under the laboratory
upgrading component. The ECU would communicate with IDA and NDF concerning Project
activities assigned to the MSDE, and ensure that IDA and NDF procurement, disbursement,
auditing, and reporting requirements would be satisfied for such activities, as relevant. It would
also share with IDA environmental monitoring information on the impact of Project-financed
remediation investments in the mining sector which MSDE ( or the relevant authority) would have
access to in its role as the environmental monitoring authority under Bolivian law. Beneficiaries
under the laboratory upgrading component would prepare proposals for assistance to address their
most pressing development needs, for consideration by the EPC and IDA, within the criteria
established under the Project (para. 12). In order to obtain the commitment of stakeholders in
studies (e.g. for pollution prevention) requiring active participation from private fnrms, the ECU
would refine the objectives and scope of work for the studies in consultation with Bolivian national
and regional industry associations, and would carry out enterprise-level diagnostic work through
independent consultants selected in consultation with such associations. Such consultants would
apply adequate safeguards to respect the confidentiality of proprietary information.
21.   The Secretariat of Mines within MED would implement its programs through its own
Sectoral Coordinating Unit (SCU), headed by a Sectoral Project Coordinator (SPC), which would
procure all consulting services, goods and works financed through MED under the Project. This
would include all technical assistance and investment activities for which COMIBOL would be
direct beneficiary. The staff of the SCU would be complemented by at least one expert with broad
experience in supervising the design and execution of remediation works in the mining sector.
22.   Prior to credit effectiveness, the Borrower would adopt an Operational Manual containing:
(i) drafts of contractual arrangements between the MoF and MSDE and MED; MSDE and the
beneficiaries under the laboratory component; and the Secretariat of Mines and COMIBOL; (ii)
eligibility criteria for selecting  remediation investments in the mining sector;  (iii)  terms of
reference for the two regulatory studies to be carried out by MSDE, and the technical assistance
programs, respectively, to inventory labs and assess demand for environmental testing services, and
to design the policy and institutional framework for a national standardization and quality system;
(iv) terms of reference for financial audits of Project accounts; and (v) agreed Project monitoring
indicators.
23.   COMIBOL would propose subprojects to the SCU for financing under the remediation
program. Subproject proposals would include: (i) certification by the SCL that the proposed
investment had been selected on the basis of the eligibility criteria included  in the Operating
Manual; (ii) proposed engineering designs and draft procurement documents requiring IDA's prior
review; (iii) any environmental assessments required under Bolivian law or Regulations, or IDA
policy. In instances where such environmental assessments revealed potential negative environmental
impacts from the proposed subproject, the subproject proposal would provide for a mitigation
program, satisfactory to IDA; (iv) evidence that all requisite permits required under Bolivian laws
and Regulations, including those required by MSDE (or the relevant authority) under such laws and



8
Regulations, had been obtained; (v) evidence that a proposed monitoring program to assess
subproject impact had been agreed with MSDE (or the relevant authority), and that MSDE (or the
relevant authority) would share monitoring data with IDA; and (vi) evidence that any special
arrangemerts necessary for the implementation and sustainability of the subproject had been agreed
between involved parties in a fashion consistent with relevant IDA policies and practices in Bolivia
(e.g. regarding projects on international waterways, or resettlement). The SPC would submit to
IDA for prior consideration all subproject proposals which complied with the above requirements.
Contracting of consulting services, equipment and remediation works would be carried out by the
SCU, in accordance with procurement procedures agreed under the Project.
24.   Project Sustainability.  As indicated above, interest in environmental management is
growing in Bolivia.  The country has established and continues to strengthen environmental
institutions, including the MSDE and the environmental unit within the Secretariat of Mines. In
addition, Bolivia has drafted environmental regulations, including regulations mandating the use of
EIA for all projects which may have an impact on the environment, and rules assigning liability for
environmental damage due to past contamination. Authorities are now in the process of developing
standards for emissions to air and discharges to water and standards for ambient air and water
quality. Additionally, the MSDE is beginning to develop a permanent environmental monitoring
system, which will collect and process data on air and water quality in a regular and systematic
fashion. Several of these activities were fostered, with IDA support, during Project preparation.
The programs were conducted with the full participation of stakeholders, indicating broad support
for environmentally sustainable development.
25.   The increasing national commitment to improved environmental management in Bolivia
may be expected to sustain public interest in the activities which the Project supports. Specific
Project activities would be sustained through: (i) the information, policy development, and
institution-building which the various studies and technical assistance activities may be expected to
engender, including a study to develop mechanisms for financing remediation of contamination
from past mining activities on a long-term basis (para. 10); (ii) strengthening of MSDE's
interactions with the mining and industrial sectors, and the development of its knowledge base
useful for policy formulation and implementation; and (iii) the development and application of
investment eligibility criteria which could help the Government to allocate public resources for
highest priority environmental improvements, even in mining communities not affected directly by
the Project.
26.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. The design of the Project
reflects several lessons leamed in implementing technical assistance, civil works, and mining sector
projects in Bolivia and elsewhere. Key lessons include the need for: (i) full commitment to the
Project at the highest Government levels; (ii) the need for capable Project management, which can
act autonomously in the interests of its parent Ministry or Secretariat; (iii) adequate salaries for
local counterparts; (iv) an efficient Government procurement mechanism to ensure that the work
gets done in a timely manner, while conforming to IDA and cofinanciers' procedures. Under the
Project, these lessons have been reflected by: (i) preparing the Project in close consultation with the



9
Government and beneficiaries; (ii) supporting the various local project coordinating units with
complementary expertise, granting them independent access to resources under Special Accounts,
and arranging for them to report independently to IDA regarding their respective Project activities;
(iii) requiring that compensation of key local line agency counterparts be consistent with
compensation paid to staff carrying similar qualifications, experience, and responsibilities under the
ongoing Civil Service Reform program; and (iv) agreeing during Project preparation upon
procurement procedures and standard procurement documents.
27.   Rationale for ]IDA Involvement. The Project is consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), presented to the Board on Febniary 8, 1994. The Bank Group strategy reflected in
the CAS focuses on eliminating the remaining structural constraints to growth and expanding the
availability of resources for poverty and human capital development within a sustainable
environment. The lending program included in the CAS contemplates projects falling within three
categories: (i) rationalizing the role of the State; -(ii) poverty and human resource development; and
(iii) natural resource management. The proposed Project includes programs germane to two of the
previously-mentioned categories, namely assisting the Government to meet its environmental
liabilities arising from privatization, and fostering private development of the mining and industrial
sectors in a more environmentally-sustainable fashion. IDA's ongoing cross-sectoral involvement
in industrial, mining, and environmental issues in Bolivia places it in a unique position to mobilize
efforts to address the complex issues involved with pollution abatement there.
28.   Agreed Actions. Agreements have been reached on Project scope, organization and
administration. In addition (i) criteria for selecting remediation investments in the mining sector
have been agreed with MSDE and the Secretariat of Mines; (ii) a core program of immediate and
longer-term remediation activities in the mining sector has been agreed; and (iii) a priority set of
activities under the laboratory upgrading program has been agreed, and initial drafts of Terms of
Reference have been prepared.
29.   Implementation of the proposed credit would be subject to the following additional special
actions: (i) as conditions of Effectiveness, evidence be provided that: (a) the Government has
adopted a statement of sectoral policy to assign environmental liabilities for pollution stocks in the
mining sector; (b) a mining sector environmental unit has been established with the legal authority,
the necessary staff, and a clearly-defined institutional role to administer environmental matters in
the mining sector; (c) the SCU has been established with the legal authority and the necessary staff,
resources, and autonomy to carry out Project activities on behalf of the Secretariat of Mines; (d)
the NDF Loan Agreement has become effective; (e) the Operational Manual has been adopted by
the Borrower; (f) the ECU has been established with the legal authority and the necessary staff,
resources, and autonomy to carry out Project activities on behalf of MSDE; (ii) as a general
condition of disbursement for components executed by MSDE (except for equipment, advisory
services and incremental operating costs for the ECU), a contract for advisory services to the ECU
shall have been signed, and at least one adviser, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA, shall be in place in Bolivia; (iii) as specific conditions of disbursement for each laboratory
upgrading program executed by MSDE on behalf of a beneficiary under the laboratory upgrading



10
component (a) IDA shall have approved the respective laboratory upgrading program; and (b) a
contract shall have been signed between MSDE and the respective beneficiary authorizing MSDE to
carry out the respective laboratory upgrading program on behalf of such beneficiary; (iii) as a
general condition of disbursement for components executed by MED (except for equipment,
advisory services and incremental operating costs for the SCU), a contract for advisory services to
the SCU shall have been signed, and at least one adviser, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA, shall be in place in Bolivia; and (iv) as specific conditions of disbursenent for
each eligible subproject under the remediation investment component (a) IDA shall have approved
the respective eligible subproject; and (b) a contract shall have been signed between MED and
COMIBOL authorizing MED to carry out the respective subproject for the benefit of COMIBOL.
30.   Environmental Aspects. The Project is classified as a "B" project, owing to its focus on
environmental imnprovement. Its design is based on a sectoral environmental assessment (EA) for
the mining and industrial sectors, which was financed by the Government of Sweden and prepared
in 1992/93 in consultation with over forty organizations, including major NGOs. Major findings of
the EA were that: (i) there were significant problems with water pollution; (ii) forthcoming steps to
further private investment in COMIBOL's mines would provide an important opportunity to
improve environmental management in mining; and (iii) programs should be encouraged to
improve baseline data and investment planning, and develop consensual approaches and compliance
based on incentives.
31.   Program Objective Categories. The Project would contribute to IDA's enviromnent, and
private and public sector reform categories.
32.   Participatory Approach.  The technical assistance programs have been designed in
consultation with Project beneficiaries and industry and mining associations. Moreover, they have
their genesis in the findings of the EA (para. 30), which was prepared with the involvement of a
wide cross-section of stakeholders. The proposed procedures for deciding upon and implementing
remediation subprojects in the mining sector have been designed in consultation with the Mining
Secretariat, COMIBOL, and MSDE.
33.   Project Benefits. In the short run, the Project would help remediate priority environmental
problems in mining communities. This would yield economic benefits from consequential
improvements in human health, economic infrastructure, or ecosystems, and from the removal of
impediments to fresh private investmnents which would raise incomes. While economic returns from
the various remediation subprojects would depend upon local conditions, investments in several other
Bank and IDA-supported environmental projects have estimated rates of returns exceeding 20%
arising from improvements in human health. The Project would also help upgrade testing laboratory
capabilities, thus assisting with development of a credible national environmental monitoring
capacity. In the medium-term, the Project would help build policy and institutional capacity to
mitigate future pollution flows in mining and industry. It would also help improve worker health
and safety conditions in existing and future mining and industrial enterprises. In the longer-term,
through its programs to encourage pollution prevention at the firm level, the Project would facilitate



11
development of more efficient and sustainable mining and industrial sectors. Moreover, through
training programs for counterparts during implementation of various studies, the Project would help
strengthen the national manpower base in environmental management.
34.   Risks. The major technical risk is that the project design would be inappropriate. This
risk has been managed by basing it on the fmdings of a sectoral EA, and reviewing Project
components carefully with stakeholders. The major economic risk is that remediation funds would
be misallocated. This has been managed by agreeing with the Secretariat of Mines upon a
methodology and set of criteria that would be applied to select only those investments that would
have high benefits relative to costs for financing under the Project. The major implementation
risks are that: (i) MSDE's limited institutional capacity and experience with IDA and NDF projects
may lead to delays in inter-institutional coordination and Project execution; (ii) identification and
implementation of investments under the remediation component may be delayed and Project
disbursements may lag; and (iv) lack of counterpart funds could delay execution of remediation
works. These risks will, respectively, be managed by: (i) providing a team of consultants to advise
the ECU; reviewing IDA and NDF procedures carefully with counterparts during Project
preparation and start-up; and agreeing upon standard procurement documents early in the Project;
(ii) agreeing upon a core program of remediation activities in the mining sector, and a priority set
of activities under the laboratory upgrading program during Project preparation; and (iii) financing
an ample share of remediation investment costs from external sources, and reviewing forthcoming
counterpart funding requirements during annual reviews timed to inform annual budget decisions.
35.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
November 22, 1995
Attachments



12



13
Schedule A
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Table 1: Estimated Total Project Cost
Item                                               Local    Foreign      Total
Cost      Costs
A. Technical Assistance for Regulatory Framework      0.8       3.2        4.0
B. Laboratory Upgrading                               0.6        1.4       2.0
C. Remediation Investments                            3.0        3.0       6.0
D. Remediation Studies                                0.7       3.8        4.5
E. Project Administration: ECU-MSDE                   0.5       0.8         1.3
: SCU-MED                      0.5       0.6        1.1
F. Local Taxes                                        2.5       0.0        2.5
G. Total Base Cost                                    8.6       12.8      21.4
H. Price Contingencies                                0.3       0.3        0.6
Total Cost                                      8.9      13.1       22.0
Table 2: Projected Financing Plan
Source of Finance                        Local Cost     Foreign Costs    Total
IDA                                               4.1             6.9      11.0
Nordic Development Fund                            1.3            6.2      7.5
Govermnent: Local Taxes                           2.5             0.0      2.5
: Other Counterpart                    1.0             0.0      1.0
Total Financing                             8.9            13.1     22.0



Component                   Objective                                     Output                                            Benchmark of Impact                         Responsible Agencies
a) Advisory        Enhance expertise among Bolivian     Increased competence of local professionals to      Evidence of greater understanding of and ability to formulate  MSDE components:
Services for ECU    professionals on environmental      manage environmental issues and policies.           environmental policies and management systems based on      ECU.
and SCU.           issues in the industrial and mining                                                      science and economics. Such evidence would be obtained
sectors, based on actual conditions.                                                    through discussions with persons benefiting from the advisory    MED components:
Increase local capacity to manage                                                        services.                                                   SCU.
issues of environmental pollution.                                                                                                                                            l
b) Regulatory      Strengthen national                  Completion  of two studies to improve               At national level: By project month 48, the following will   MSDE, in coordination         O
framework          environmental management             environmental management, at bodt the national and  have occurred: (i) identification of environmental problems,  with other national and
studies.           policies and management              the local levels (i.e. in Santa Cruz, Cochabamba, and    setting of priorities, and design of policies to address them; (ii)  local Governnent bodies;
capabilities.                       El Alto). Studies would define specific action       design of an improved environmental monitoring system and   industry associations;
programs.                                           linkage of environmental data collection to development and  regional universites in La    ,
Build environmental                                                                      implementation of specific measures to address most serious  Paz, Santa Cruz, and
management capability at local level.  Identification of mines and industries with significant    environmental problems; (iii) formulation of enforcement  Cochabamba.
environmental impaces.                              mechanisms and associated standards to address major
pollution problems at least in mining and industrial sectors;
Development of baseline ambient water quality data  (iv) development of an environmental management approach
for priority surface and subterranean water bodies.  incorporating a variety of management instruments, which is
capable of respottding flexibly to changing social, economic
Evaluation of potential costs and benefits of pollution    and technical factors.
prevention in the leather-tanning, meat, and brick-
making industries in Cochabamba, sugar refineries   At local level: By project month 48, MSDE, other government
and distilleries in Santa Cruz, and selected cement  bodies at all levels, and industry associations in Santa Cruz,                          t   4 C
plants, and identification of priorities for pollution  Cochabamba and El Alto will have agreed on environmental                           7  -i
management in El Alto.                              management priorities at the local level and developed action
plains --with costs --for envirounmental improvement.v 
Development of guidelines, procedures, and training  pt   wv
to assist MSDE and the Secretariats of Mining and
Industry to implement EIA Regulations for
investments in the respective sectors.
Design of a system of standards, incentives and                                                                                                C)
enforcement mechanisms to encourage adoption of
improved environmental practices at the firm level.                                                                                            0
C)
taI



Component                      Objective                                        Output                                                Benchmark of Impact                            Responsible Agencies
c) Laboratory        Upgrade quality of laboratory testing    Agreement between Goverunent and private sector        By project month 12: (i) national agreement on policies,         MSDE
Component            services in Bolivia to foster          stakeholders regarding organization of laboratory        institutional framework, and implementation plan to establish
development of credible                testing services in Bolivia, related legal and           credible system for encouraging and verifying competence of    Instituto de
environmental standard-setting and     institutional framework, and division of roles and       labs, particularly those supporting environmental initiatives;  Investigaciones
monitoring system.                     responsibilities regarding: (i) sctting and diffusion of  (ii) completion of inventory of Bolivian testing labs, and      Geologicas (IG).
regulatory standarus; (ii) ret'tng and diffusion of     classification by areas of competence; and (iii) completion of
impnttmenting standards; (iii) accreditation of labs;   market survey to assess likely demand for various types of       Ir.stituto de Ecologia (IE).     W
and (iv) processes to upgrade the quality of            laboratory testing services within 3-5 year time horizon.                                         0 
laboratory testirg services in Bolivia.                                                                                  IBI'ORCA
By project month 20, development of five-year business plan
Development of core set of laboratories with adequate   to upgrade lab proficiency and fulfill anticipated demand for
proficiency to provide range of environmental testing    testing services, within agreed institutional framework.
services in accordance with internationally-accepted
standakds.                                              By project month 30, accreditation by recognized body of at
least one lab to accomplish environmental testing in each of
Development of core team with proficiency in 'best      following disciplines: inorganics, including heavy metals;
practice' environmental monitoring and sampling         organics, including biologicals; and bio-indicators.
techniques.
By project month 18, establish at least one trained
Improved awareness by Goverrunent, productive           environmental monitoring and sampling crew, including at
sectors, and local laboratory and scientific            least two certified technicians, together with appropriate                                     e 
communities regarding value of credible                 environmental sampling and monitoring equipment.
measurement-related services (e.g. for calibration,
standardization, testinig) for enviroismental           Adopt sufficient intemational environmental implementing
monitoring, product quality improvement, and trade      standards to fulfill 25% (by project month 18); 50% (by
development.                                            project month 24); 75% (by project month 36); of nation's                                      ta <
requirements (as identified through policy framework task
mentioned as first item above).
Implementation of an awareness-building program so that by
project month 24: (i) all major laboratories, including IC and
IE, have participated in briefings on the costs and benefits of
accreditation and indicated to MSDE whether or not they will
take actions to achieve accreditation; and (ii) senior ntanagers                                  0
of at least 100 enterprises and government agencies have been
briefed on the linkage between lab accreditation, product
quality, and trade.
d) Remediation       Reduce damage to hutnan health,         Reduced damage to human health, economic                On basis of monitoring activities to he agreed for each          MSDE.
investments.         economic infrastructure, or            infrastructure, or ecosystem quality; increased private   remediation subproject, demonstrated impro%ement in ambient
ecosystems fion contamiration due      investment in the COMIBOL mines, leading to              air, drinking water, and surface water quality.                  SCII anid COMIBOL.
to mining. and further pris ate        improved value for die properties
itivestiient in COMIBOL mininig                                                                 Evidence of increased vale ot COMIB(L  nies due tu                                                 n
communities for which G-vernmenr                                                                remedaanon of pasE contammnatvon. Such evidence %vyculd be
bears responsibility for past                                                                   obtamed ihrough discuissions with officials i?'pun;nble for                                    t
contamination                                                                                  .dminu-tst-ing countract: with lprivate oa1er..                                                 o
.__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _L___._                                                                                                                  __     .n-I__ ,z



Component                    Objective                                    Output                                            Benchi,ark of Impact                        Responsible Agencies
e) Technical       Improve environmental                Development and dissemination of Codes of            By project month 18, adoption of Codes of Practice for
Assistance to      management policies and procedures   Practice to enable compliance by mine operators     small, medium and large mining operations by relevant mining
strengthen         for nining sector, and enable        with environmental Regulations.                      associations, and discussions of such Codes in public fora
environmental      COMIBOL to carry out technical                                                            organized by SoM and mining associations in at least La Paz,
management in      studies to inform mine-specific      Development of procedures for mine permitting,       Oruro and Potosi.
mining.            environmental management             inspection, enforcement, reclamation and closure.
activities.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~By project month 24, adoption by SoM of updated  SoM
activities.                         Development and implementation of environmental      procedures for mine permitting, inspection, enforcement,
monitoring programs at COMIBOL mines.               reclamation and closure reflecting intemational "best practices"
Carrying out of hydrological studies at COMIBOL     to achieve environmental protection.
mines.                               (i) By  ~~~~~~~~project month 6, define the scope and timing of an. COMIBOL in conjunction
Preparation of engineering designs for remediation    environmental sampling and monitoring program  for priority    with SoM, MSDE, and (as
interventions at COMIBOL mines.                      COMIBOL mines; (ii) by project month 12, implement         necessary) relevant local     0
program to generate information on key human health         authorities.
indicators and ambient air, water and soil quality to inform  atoiis
identification of priority remediation investments under                                  PY
Project; (iii) develop and implement site-specific monitoring
programs as part of each remediation subproject financed by
the Project.CMBO
(i) By project month 6, define the scope and timing of a                               a      cJ
program of hydrological studies for priority COMIBOL                                  (J@
mines; (ii) By project month 12, initiate program of priority
hydrological studies.
COMIBOL
By project month 18, initiate designs of remediation
subprojects at first COMIBOL sites being remediating.
0b



17
Schedule C
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Table 1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                  Procurement Method                    NBF             Total Costs
ICB           NCB           Other
1. Consulting services         --            --             4.3             7.3                11.6
(2.4)                              (2.4)
2. Goods/ Equipment           0.0            0.2            0.5 1           0.0                0.7
(0.0)         (0.2)          (0.4)                              (0.6)
3. Civil Works                0.0            5.2            1.72            0.0                6.9
(0.0)         (4.5)          (1.5)                              (6.0)
4. Training                   0.0            0.0            0.2             0.2                0.4
(0.0)         (0.0)          (0.1)                              (0.1)
5.Costs forproject            0.0            0.0            2.4             0.0                2.4
administration                (0.0)         (0.0)          (1.9)                              (1.9)
l Total                       0.0            5.2            9.3             7.5                22.0
(0.0)         (4.5)          (6.5)                              ( 11.0)
Notes:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
NBF is Not Bank Financed.
1 US$200,000 LIB; US$300,000 National and International Shopping.
2 Three quotations.



18
Schedule C
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursements (US$ million equivalent)
Table 2: Disbursement Arrangements
Category                                          Amount                       Percentage
1. Consultant services
(ta) Laboratory Component - MSDE              1,100,000
(b) Regulator, studies - MSDE                   100,000
I100% of expenditures under approved foreign or
(c) Studies for MED                            400, 000   local consultants' contracts
(d) Advisorv services
i)  ECLU - MSDE                              50,000
ii) SCU - M.D                               500,000
iii) Mining Communities                     200,000
2. Goods/Equipment/lnstallation
(a) ECU - MSDE                                  100,000   100% of foreign or ex-factory local expenditures
(b) SCU - MED                                    50,000
(c) Laboratory Component - MSDE                 300,000   84% of expenditures for locally-procured imported
equipment and installation charges
(d) Remediation Investments - MED               175,000
l (e) Studies for MED                            25,000
3. Civil Works
(a) Laboratory Component - MSDE                 450,000   84% of expenditures
(b) Reinediation Investments - MED            5,550,000
4. Operating Costs for Project Administration
a) I.C'l-MSDE                                   800,000   85% of incremental operating costs, up to an
aggregate amount of US$400,000 equivalent; 56%
of incremental operating costs, up to an aggregate
amount of US$600,000 equivalent; and 28% of
incremental operating costs thereafter.
b) SCU-MTD                                       450,000   85% of incremental operating costs, up to an
aggregate amount of US$250,000 equivalent; 56%
of incremental operating costs, up to an aggregate
amount of US$350,000 equivalent; and 28% of
incremental operating costs thereafter.
5 Training
(a) MSDE                                        50,000   100%
(b) MED                                        100,000
6. Uinallocated                                   600,000
Total                                     11,000,000



19
Schedule C
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
Table 3: Projected Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02    FY03
Annual               0.0     1.0      2.0     2.5     2.5      1.5      1.0     0.5
Cumulative           0.0     1.0      3.0     5.5      8.0     9.5     10.5    11.0



20
Schedule D
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
I une taken lo prepare:                 Two and one half years
-   -pared by:                           Govenment of Bolivia with IDA  staff
St Ui.  -1j'f liSion:                 October 1992
*  !npraisal mission departure:         March 1995
""'gotiaflons                           November 1995
LdiiClled date of cuffectiveness:      April 1996



21
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJEC'I
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1995)
(US$ millions)
Amount (less
canicellation)
LO/CR        Fiscal                                                                            i li0.
Number       Year      Borrower    Purpose                             Bank         ll)A       huu-c C
16 loans, 33 Credit(s) closed       (including 6 reflows)            274.78    449.95            -
18420        1988      Bolivia      Urban                                          i5.00 2O' 
20120        1989      Bolivia       Export Corridors                              37.00
20130        1989      Bolivia       Mining Sector                                 35.00        20 R
20920        1990      Bolivia      Integrated Health Dev                          20.00         9.'-   1
21190        1990      Bolivia       Eastern Lowlands                              35.00
21340        1990      Bolivia       Private Enterprise Dev                        16.10        I
21870        1991      Bolivia       Water Supply/Sewerage                         35.00        !'
22160        1991      Bolivia       Technology Dev                                21.00
22790        1991      Bolivia       Public Financial Mgt 11                       1i 30
22980        1992      Bolivia       Struct Adjust Cred                            40.0)
23220        1992      Bolivia       Agr Exp Dev Prog                              22.50
23950        1992      Bolivia       Road Maintenance                              80.0()
24430        1993      Bolivia       Environ TA Project                             4.80           -7 1l
25310        1993      Bolivia      Integrated Cliild Dev                          50.70        . 'd i
25320        1993      Bolivia       Social Invest. Fund 11                        40.01
25650        1994      Bolivia       Municipal Development                         42 .i,      4-
26470        1995      Bolivia       Regulatory Ref. & Cap.                        !4.70
26500        1995      Bolivia       Education Reform                              40.-I       )
27050        1995      Bolivia      Judicial Reform                                1 i00
27420        1995      Bolivia       Land Administration                           20.40       - 7
27610        1995      Bolivia       Capitalization Program                        50f) 0l
27620        1995      Bolivia       Hydro. Sec. Ref. & Cap.                       10.6a-
27720        1995      Bolivia       Rural Comm. Develop.                          15.00 4_ '-l
Total of open operations                                667.14        468 .4
TOTAL                                        274.78     1.135.55
Of which repaid                         215.07        19."9
Net held by Bank/IDA                     59.71     1115-. i6
Amount sold                                    0.05
Of which repaid                           0.05
Total Undisbursed                                 --           -       4684 
* Undisbursed balances higher than committed due to exchange rate fluctuation.



22
Schedule E
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1995))
(US$ millions)
Loan    Equity     Total
Total Gross Commitments                             102.20     13.62    115.82
Less: cancellations, terminations, exchange adjustments,  32.25  0.49    32.74
repayments, write-offs and sales
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    69.95     13.13     84.08
Total Undisbursed IFC                                 1.11      4.27      5.38
11/15/95



18RD 27222
B R A 1 _:A
J ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                   L I V  I 
,~~~  A ~~MAJOR COMIBOL MINES
\   >  '~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' ~~~~~~~ i7   tb ~~~~~~~~~~6 HU.UNEI
-12              .                     \        ,o                                                                                                01 - 0 10     -IriA           12E
}!. S   /   ,)         ;                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED MA-t IIOOS
,   I   T sT    _   51            t                  v                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEIECIED SECOND-1l IOADS
1   dWs   D    .   S,                 oS                        >                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DE'.AErMEh 80-ND-ES
>   r /             o                                              \                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEiR-hAr0-s  50-hDARES
z   t   N  /  --J             -                                    _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~kgS ~~~~      0     5D   ID0    150   200
r         l                                    , O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TRINIDAD (                                     ^
/  !      X   () 2 \    OC"                     4F
! X,\ A- FV52$UCEr0CHABAJ/\   __
o~~~~~~~                    0                                                                                              -rsiin                       s
''                                   2          so       SS       A  R G  E A L  I I  A I2                                O-ols                     ~          >Ci  w






I



I  ! A,: -t4: '
'! i7      t    T.:      F .                - r:
r   - p   .    E 1p' r



