6-0
r
BOLIVIA:
r
i           SECRETARIA NACIONAL DE MEDIO AMBIENTE
!MISTERIO DE MINERIA Y METALURGIA
Swedish Environmental Systems
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
OF
THE MSING AND INDUSTRIAL (MANUFACTURING) SECTORS
TECHBCAL APPENDICES: Volume No. 1
June 1993



1'
SECrORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
SECTORS EN BOLIVIA
Swedish Envirommental Systems
June 1993
I
t        TECHNICAL APPENDICES: Volume No.1
IV.1     Regulating industrial pollution in Bolivia (Faith Halter)
* 1          IV.2    Instumentos economicos aplicables a la gesti6n ambiental de la minerfa e
industria en Bolivia (Marthadina MendizAbal de Fmot)
* I         IV3     Environmental laws and regulations related to mining and industry in Bolivia
(Valeria Merino)
I
I
I
!
i 



APPENDIX IV.I
SECrORAL ENVIRONMEAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
SECTORS IN BOLIVIA
t    REGULATING INDUSTRL POLLUTION aN BOLIA
by Faith Halter
!
I
I
l



EXB5EMUFlSLMARX
1. Purpos . The purpose of this paper is to assist in preparing the reguatory and institutional
components of the Swedish Enviomen  Systms (SES) project to help improve pollution
management of the mining and indusal sectors in Bolivia
2.     nizUmlon. Part 1 reviews international experience about building regulatory programs m
I      industrial potlution managemen, with an emphasis on selecliag regulatory instruments. Part 2
concentrates on pollution management in Bolvia. It suimanizes the curert situation and offes
*      tentative drions for both basic regulatory activities and some more treted efforts.
3. Inidal stp to reglatng polluton (pages 1-8). Goverment policies for poUution management
develop as part of a larger agenda of raised consciousness about en meal concems and the
I     effects of pollution on hum  health and economic productivity. As envimnaiW es hold as a
political force, governments follow a paen that geneay includes: adopting new envinal
legislation; establishing a centrAl coordinatng agency; adopting regulations for enironment impact
asssment (ELA); setting ambient environmenta quality standards; and adopting detailed regulations
for pollution management
4. SedeSfinEug ul Mnstrpments for pollutfion management(pages 8-17). Regulators in both
.|     industralized and developing counties have shown a strong preference for quantity-based appaches
(QBA) that require polluters to reduce the amount of pollution so that total contamion is restricted
to a tageted ambient imit. Tius preference is lkely to contiue, despite the theoreical supeioity of
|      pince-based instumae   (PBA) that rely on market forces to hdp allocate pollution management
responsibilities more efficiently.
I       There appear to be sound reasons why QBA has evolved as the major reguatory system for pollution
management However, regulatory systems should use a mix of QBA and PBA insutuments rwth
PBA serving as an important complement, especially to help reduce the costs of regulation and to raise
revenues.
There are no ready formulas for selectn the best mix of regulatory instuments. Instead. regulas
must be aware of the compatve advantages and disadvantages of the varous QBA and PBA
instruments and combine them as seems most appropae in a particular situation. Successful
pplication of any of these instruments cals for caeful monitring and adjustmet of the regulatory
program as experience and insituional cpabilies inaeas.
in



5. R=laIng industrhil polluton In Bolivia (Pages 17-26). Bolivia is in the early stages of
following the general pattern noted above for evolving regutltion of pollution management After
reviewing some generl principles regarding initial priorities and program design, this paper
recommends some broad-based actions that can help to lay the groundwork for basic pollution
management programs. It also suggests possible actions targeted tward specific pollution problems.
In each cace, there are specific suggestions about how the SES project can contribute. An
Q         =gMMO  aretat  and will have to be reevaluated as more 'nformation becomes a&y&Wj.
6. Recommended broad-based actlons 1.o lay the Z=ondwork for
r~guIaUngi%dustriaI pollution (pages 2-27) include:
h. Establish ambient enviromental quaity goals to serve as a fiamework for designing
Pollution management programt aud evahnating environmental quality.
b. Consider whether 2nU hbcv to require phased compliance with ambient standards for
importam categories of so-ces that are ot yet subject to more specific pollution management
requirements.
c. Consder whether and how to establish a basic pollution charge that woud generate
revenues to help fund tiese efforts and perhaps encourage reduced pollution.
7.
problems (pages 27-29) include:
a. lhe first priority should be to werk on pnvatzation of the miung sector. This process
Offers a unique  ortuniy to inject bett environmental management int a major economic sector.
b. Idenify issues and problems that can help the Government shape its conceptual framework
for indUStrIa pollution magement and consequently decide how to combine quant-based and
price-based approaches.
c. IdentAry a small number of modest pilot or phased activities to help design and/or
implement early regulatory programs.
d. IdefY any current ecMomic policies that should be evaluated for their impact on
pollution management A common example is subsidized water and energy prices that discourage
conservation of scarce naturl resourceS.
i
ii



ibis paper will assist in pt%paring the regulatory and instituional components of the Swedish
Environmental Systems (SES) project to help improve poliution management of the miaing and
industrial sectors in Bolivia.
Part 1 reviews inteational experience about building regulatory programs in industrial pollution
management, with an emphasis on selectng regulatory instnument. Part 2 concentrates on pollution
management in Bolivia. It summiizes he current situation and offers entaive diecons for both
*      basic regulatory activities and some more targeted efforts; in eac case, there are specific suggestions
about how the SES project can contribute.
This paper is intended to be a brief synthesis, concise enough so that busy team members and tnir
Bolivian countpparts can read it quickly and use it as a basic reference.' Tibs discussion can oily
serve as a possible strtng point; many important aspects of regulating industrial pollution receive
summary treatment or have been omitted auogether. Also, we do not yet have sufficient informaton
in many cases to make specific recommendatons about Bolivia.
PART le INTRNAONALEXRIEN2
BACKGROUN
Ibis section describes the steps that most countries foillow when establishing a regulatoy program for
!     pollution management, and then compares the two main categories of regulatory instuments.
Iniffal ste=s to relntf pollution
Environmental poUution is lagely a byproduct of economic activity. Societies do not usually view
pollution (except for basic sanitation) as a significant problem until there has been substal urban
and industial growth e llre, govement polides for polution management develop as part of a
larger agenda of raised oscisousness about en     concens and the effects of pollution on
human health and economic productivity. As environmenalism takes hold as a political force,
govemments follow a pattern that generally includes:
1. Adopting legislation that promotes enm    protcion as a social goal and often
includes the first major legislative call for pollution management;
'The author has used footnotes sparingly in order to make
this paper more readable. The bibliography at the end identifies
the sources that she used. She has included footnotes at the
beginning of some sections where she relied heavily upon
particular sources.   The form for citation is informal;  it uses
only the primary author's last name.
j             2This section is based primarily upon information from the
following sources listed in the bibliography: Bernstein;
Eskeland;  Halter  (1991); Teitenberg;  and Wheeler.
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



2. Establishing a cental nationAl agency for environment protecdon;
3. Adopting requiremen  for env        impact assessment;
4. Settng ambient environental quality standards; and
5. Adopgtg detailed requiements for pollution management
Environmental legislafion. Widesprad recognition of the dose links among sound
I      enviomenta, economic and social developmen Is a recent phenomenon. Consequently, building the
concept of sustainable development into national poicies and planmng almost always mvolves new
a      legislation, and sometimes changes to the national constitution as well. This new legislation.
sometimes refenred to as an "ennnta umbrella law." typicdly sets out national aspirations and a
genead famework for comprehensive envionment managemeL Such laws often cr    the first
broad, formal directions for enviromental planning and polution management, as well as referencing
-I    and expanding existing programs for managing natural resourceL Tney usually establish a small
centra institution to help direct the new environmental agenda. Thes umbrella laws tend to be vague,
and so supplementa regulations are normally a prerequisite to establishing programs in new areas.
EstabUshing a central environmental agency is often necessary for the same reason as new
legilation. There is no exsting national institution whose mandate and vision cofresponds to the
newly formulated national envi     priorities.
The new agency Is usualy smanll and has a coordinating fucL  it may also have lead
J       iresponsbiles for aU or some of the newly created institutional responsibilities, such as environmental
impact assssment, pollution magm,  envi al information systems and e       ntl
education. The scope of its    ibilities will far exceed its expertise, resoures and political power.
rengthening insitution  arangements and capabilities in the new central agency - AND in the
j     many other institutions associated with imprving envirnment management - is critical to the
effectiveness of new regulatory programs. The problems of unclear li  of authority and weak
institutional capacty that commonly occur in developing coumties can be magnified because
enviromnent tuches on so many different issues and activities. The combination of old and new
issues tends to unsettle existing alocations of authority and budgets witbin each level of govanment
and among national, provincial and local authorities.
*  These institutional concerns have important implications for new envromental programs in
developng countries. Building human resoc  is often t  most ccticl - and one of the most
difficult - aspects of building new prorams that produce environmental improvements. One must
allow substantial time for these imprvements to occr, sinm success rests on inducing necessmry
cbanges in the attitudes and behavior of goverment officials, pofuters and the general public.
Diswminaing information about    nment problems, rquirements and opporunities to all
segments of society and exchangig views with them is central to this process. The importn  of
extesive information exchange and the frequent need to negotiate over application of envime
requirements at the local level rets in considerable d r tion of pollution managemen
Uprograms.
Anotber impor  implication of weak Institutiona capacity is that there will be limited ability to
monitor compliance and addrss violations effectively. This cals for careful targeting of scarce
2



resources and maximizing the use of instruments that are relatively simple and inexpensive to
implement
Envirowmentat impact assessment (EIA) is already somewhat familiar to the governments of
many developing countries before they adopt it because of requirements for project review by major
I     international banks and development agencies. EIA is usually one of the very fs programs to be
undertaken in response to new environmental legislation. It can be a poweful eDgine for
I      strengthening environment plannig and awaens once a country has readced the point where there
is a cadre of trained specialists and a few yeas of practical experience EIA can help to build a broad
appreciation of the benefits of environmental planning (for policies and programs, as well as projects),
t      as well as laying the groundwork for valuable monitoring and information management capabilities.
Ambient environmental quality standards form the und       for regulating pollution
managemet.3 These sndards set goals for achievig acceptable air and water quality.
Ambient air quality standards for pollutants that have mainly locaized effects (such as lead and
particulate matter) are usually established at levels intended to protect human health and welfare Air
quality standards for pollutants that have regional or global effects (such as contributors to acid rain or
ozone depletion in the upper atmosphere) are usually estabLisbed at levels to protect economic
activities (such as agriculture) or the integrity of key ecosystems.
rhe goJs for ambient en         st rds for water quaity also vary accordin to the innded
use of different water esources. For example, different ambient water quality standards might apply
;      depending on whether the watr in a stream, lake or river basin is intended primarily as a source of
drinking water, agricaltuwal water, or industrial water, or Whether it is pat of a fragile ecosystem to
receive special protection.
J      Once a government has decided upon the goals for prtecting air and water resources, it needs to
select envnmental parameters that can indicate whether those goals are being met, and then set
target concentraton limits. To begLn, a government should select a smaU number of contaminants or
other parameters (such as chemical oxygen deficiency or biogical oxygen deficiency) that are relatively
easy to measure and wi provide a general point of reference for evaluating environmental qualty.
For the reasons discussed above. it is sometimes apaprpe to set different ambient environmental
goals and standards for ditfererf regions withim a country. Ihe speafic choice of parameters for
which ambient standards will be set should be based on a review of basine envinmental
conditions,4 as well as known polluting activities and problems.
3Most of the information in this subsection derives from the
author's experience, supplemented by suggestions from Geoffrey
Grubbs and Joel Schwartz of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency and Lars Landner and Rudolph Reuther, members of the SES
I      team.
4Bolivia offers an example where it is very important to
evaluate baseline conditions  in setting ambient  environmental
quality  standards.   In parts of the country that are rich in
minerals,  the concentration of heavy metals  that occur naturally
in surface waters may be unusually high,  and this would have to
be taken into account  in setting ambient water quality  standards;
failure to consider these special conditions  could result  in



The World Health Organization recommends ambient standards protective of public health for a
variety of air and water contamrinnts. Governments geneally consider these numbers a bottom
teshold, with many choosing to set more ambitious goals.
In developing countries, governments may set stadards comparable to the most stingent ones in
OECD countes in order to appear as progrssive and protective of their citizens as possible. Yet as a
practical matter, for most developing countries the issue of bow stringent to make their ambient
standards is more a political question than an environmental one. Ihis is because regardless of which
numbers are chosen, in almost all cases it will take many years to reach even modest ambient
J envinmenal targets on a nationwide basis. _bereforc. the more imp_tnt qucstion Is not ctly
how high ambient standards are seL but how envionmental goals are set which ontaminants arm
targctWd. and how well a goyvernment can plan a phased apprnach to min  iincrementa progrss in
ECnci  itsq environ t  quality goals It can be helpful to set overall national targets, such as
trying to improve compliance with ambient standards by a certain percenage over a given period of
time. As progress occurs, te government can reevaluate and revise its ambient stadards and
timetable as appropriate.
The greatest value of ambient standrds les in their function as targets (and meuring sticks) for
progress. However, a government can also use them as gross measures for regulatory cotol by
prohibitig discharges that exceed the ambient sndard5 Ihis is not a teibly satifatory way to
regulate individual sources because it is quite ineficent to set blanket requirements for all sources.
regardless of the extent of their contibutions to the problem and their differing cost of compliance6
Nevereless, this apprach can serve as a stopgap measure during the long process of developing
approprate regulatory requirements for specific categones of industry and polluta  In that case,
initial goals for some (or most) sources subject to this regime might simply aim to reduce the degree
by which standards are exceeded, rather than acually meeting the stndards.
Regulating pollution management. Even if a government could revise all its policies to
I       promote optimal envment outcomes (an impossible task), there would remain a need to regulat
environmental goals that would be impossible to achieve.
A potential problem  for setting ambient  environmental  standards
for mining regions  in Bolivia is the lack of  adequate baseline
data about environmental conditions. One way to help address
;     this problem would be  to consider the applicability of ambient
standards adopted by  countries with  somewhat  similar conditions
regarding mineral deposits, such as Canada.
i5This would normally be done on an averaged basis. Another
possibility is to require compliance on an intermittent basis,
such as when adverse weather conditions pose special
|    environmental health hazards.
6Important factors to consider include the different impact
of pollution  from upstream  (or up-wind)  and downstream  (or down-
wind)  sources;  determining the mix and impacts  of pollutants  in a
given environment; and balancing those impacts against other
economic and social considerations.
4



industrial pollution. In many cases, the mimber of actors and other difriculties make it impossible for
polluters and those harmed by their activities to reliably negotiate and enforce agreements about
allocating responsibilities and costs for protecting the general public from unacceptable lcvels of
pollution; socily acceptable allocafions depend upon public intervention
he following section will discuss specific regulatory instruments. Here, we vwn briefly review some
important themes for regutng en         pollution.
3             1. pollution ==gor. The best way to manage pollution is to pevent it from ever being
generated. This avoids potential human, ecological and economic ham, as wetl as the often costly
.      and difficult job of clean-up. Examples of polution prevention options include substituting less
harmful inputs in the production pocess, making pmcess modifications, and recycling. Pollution
prevention can sometimes offer savings to polluters; for example, by capturing and reusing valuable
materials, such as used solvents or cement dust, before they enter the waste stream. Effective
pollution prevention depends heavily on making changes in how regulators and firms think about
pollution management - they need to foCUs on minizng waste production throughout the process as
a whole, ratber than simply considering how best to deal with wastes after they are generated. ******
This approach is less costy, as well as more sound environmently; external treatment of pollution
consumes more energy and other resources, and some forms of environmental damage (including some
injuries to human health) are extremely expensive and difficult to conrecL
2. C:rosse_iaJ jntegeraccLx)tionmnnngcnt Experience in industrialized countries has
shown the impoance of oDnsideing the effects to all environental media (air, water and soil) when
regulating pollution. For example, simply banning the discbarge of a given substance to wat bodies
may shift the problem to the air if the waste is burned instead, or to the soil if it is buried. Piomotng
integated pollution management, like pollution prevention. is easier said ta done Ibis is party
because pollution regulation tends to be segregated by envionmental media, and also because an
inategra  approach requires more information and adds complexity.
At the source-specific level, one way to promote both integrated pollution management and pollution
prevention is through audits to evaluate the overal environmental (and economic) efficiency of the
entire production process, including inputs and output  Making recommended improvements may
involve trade-offs or adjustments to official regulatory requiements such as existing permitting
requiremes, where regulation is generally by environmental media."
*           3. New vs. existing somes of pollutdion. No govemment has sufficient resources to taMe all
70ne aspect of this concern is the "polluter pays principle"
which argues that sources should be responsible for costs from
pollution that would otherwise accrue to other segments of
society;  by requiring polluters to internalize these otherwise
external costs,  they should over time adjust pollution levels to
more socially optimal limits.
aIt should be noted that the term "environmental audit  can
apply either to the type of review described here,  or to an audit
to determine compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.
5
i



aspects of environmental polution at once. One critical decision is how much to focus on improved
planning for new sources, as opposed to addressing problems genated by existing sDurces.'
Subsnial focus on new sources is cleady fundamental If a govemment hopes ever to make basic
improvements in planning and design that will reduce the occunce of fuure prblems and related
costs. However, once the public becomes conscious of curent en mntal problems, especially
serious health threats, a government will feqently find itself ud  extreme political pressure to
j      concentrate on alleviating problems associated with existing polution.'°
The is no ready answer for resolving this tension. However, one whalf-wayu point that arises in
;g     many developing countries involves the pIyatization of govnmentowned cnterprises that genete
significant pollution. Thes are sources of polution that aleady exist, but the privafization process
offers a window of opportuity for addressing their polution problems more systematcally than is
usually possible. The links between enviromnent and privaion have been most striking in Central
and E2sten Europe, where potential foreign investors are particularly concerned about future
environmental requirements and possible environmenl liability.
4. The govrment as a reguated        In all countries, govemment agencies at all levels
(national, provincial. local) are themsdeves pollutes, thugh such vaned activities as operating
wastewater trament facilities, large military bases and power geneation. The process of bringing
governmental violators into compliance can be extraordinarily long and arduous. Tlese problems tend
to be compounded in developing countries becas government is often predominant in so many
economically importeat activities, and enviromenta institutional structures and funding are
J       particularly weak.
Thbis section begins with an overview that briefly describes the two main categoies of regulatory
instruments for pollution management and cure  views on their applcaton  More detailed
desciptions follow of the shared fres of these regltory instmmen  and how each appoach
works. The section closes with a discussion about dhoosing regulatry instruments that draws together
'With respect to new sources, a common problem is how best
to coordinate EIA review and permitting procedures for new
facilities so as to minimize duplication and confusion.
"3Moreover, the problems that the public perceives as most
serious may not rank highest in terms of comparative risk. For
example, a recent study commissioned by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) found that in terms of comparative risk,
the Agency was not devoting enough resources to the most serious
l       problems associated with environmental pollution.   A major reason
for this discrepancy is the fact that U.S. public perceptions  of
risk differ significantly from an assessment based on comparative
a       risk,  and i- is these public perceptions that drive the
legislative and political process that shapes EPA's agenda. U.S.
EPA, Reducing Risk: Setting Priorities and Strategies for
j Evirormental Protection, Doc. #SAB-EC-90-021 (Sept. 1990).
6



l
conclusions based on intenational experience and research, and summarizes the main points to
consider when comparing regulatory instruments.
Overview
The variety of terms used to describe the two major categories of instruments for regulating pollution
partly reflects the controversy dring recent yeas about which instuments are most appropiate. We
will refer to fiese two categories as "quantity-basedc and "price-based" approaches.11
Qual lih          ML Dwabc (QBA) requir polluters to reduce the amount of pollution so that the
gs      aggregate contamination is resticted to the targeted limit These approachs ae also commonly
refered to as "command and control," "regulatory" and "dit" insuments Examples include
emission standards and technology requirmnts.
P| im-baM  2V 1k1_ S (PBA) ain: to create price incentives that will induce polluters to change their
behavior so as to cause less pollution.'2 These approaches are also commonly known as "economic"
or "indirect instuments, or "market based incentives." Examples include emission charges and
tradable permits.
SumM of international exnce Pollution management regulation is based heavily on QBA. In
recent years, a growing number of specialists interested in links between environment and economic
growth, especially economists, have argued tat it would be far more efficient to rely primanily on
PBA instead for pollution management This is because a QBA requireent holds all regulated
|       polluters to common operational standrds, wheeas in fact the costs, feasibility and impacts of
reducing pollution vary widely among sources and locations. Thus, in principle it would be far more
efficient to use PBA to set general environmental parameters and then allow market forces to decide
precisely how pollution management responsibiities will be allocated, rather than treating different
sources as being alike through QBA.
1he weight of opinion and expeience seems to be moving toward the conchlsion 1hat there are in fact
sound reasons why QBA has evolved as the major regulatory system for polution management and
that this is likely to continue. However, regulatory systems should use a mix Df QBA and PBA
insruments, with PBA serving as an important complement, primarily to bhlp reduce the costs of
regulation and raise revenues.
"1These terms are more accurate and neutral than some of the
other common terminology. The author has adopted them from David
Wheeler's article cited in the bibliography.
"2Adjusting prices or economic markets  to improve pollution
management can itself create unwanted policy distortions; this is
N    one reason why having adequate information before designing a PEA
system is  important.   In general,  the potential  environmental
benefits are viewed as outweighing the problems of potential
policy distortions.
7



QBA and PBA instruments share a number of important features:
1.AM OIA and P_A ite            e reMu%=y  All QBA and PBA are grounded upon
|     policies, laws and regulations tbat establish envirnmental goals, induding ambient standards. The use
Of any of these instuments must be authorized by spefic laws and regulations
3         ~~~2. OBA and PHA are similar in terms at regulato  cost and necesal insitittional CcacIty.
For example. applying eidter effluent sandards (QBA) or effluent charges (PBA) requmies that te
..     source and tihe regulators be able to monitor and evaluate the flow of effluent discharges. helrefr,
one cannot readily distinguish between the QBA and PBA insuments on the basis of institutonal
demands and adminisve costs. Functions integral to both appmaches include information
gathering, ectucating the reguated community, monitoring and enforcement
3. _mplemeaion of all the n    ent reqi=  regatnx f1exihilty. Regulatory programs
for pollution management must adapt to gaps in information and take into account substantial
variations among sources and environmental conditions. Even "command and control" schemes
ultimately depend heavily on negotiation on a facility-by-facility basis for successil implementation
Mhis need for regulatory flexibility again underlines the impotance of building human resoures for
pollution management and allowing substantial time for implementtion.
4. Roth OBR A ad PRA include sonie instrumensthat focus directly on emissions (also called
|      end-of-pipe discharges), such as emission limit (QBA) and emission chages (PBA). Eadi o=
also includes some insctuments hM focms on inputs or oUtpltS such as limiting use of certain process
chemicals (QBA), and taxes and subsidies aimed at process components or products (PBA).
S. Tesm  ng,of mech2neninm to prmmte compliance is available for alis~mns
These mechanisms include: financial penalties for nonompliane; pmfo nce bonds; assignment of
liability; temporary or permanen suspension of poRuting activities; denal of public subsidies or
financing; imprisonment for cimial violations; and publicity regarding either positive or harmful
behaviors.
As noted above, QBA is the dominant strategy in virunay all countries that regulate pollution
ma;agement. This section desmibes the main types of QBA instruments and their advantages and
disadvantages.
8



QBA instruments Indude:3
1. Rmassion or effluentstandard (restricting discharges of a given pollutant from a particular
discharge point, based on ttal quantity of pollutant or concentration of pollutant per Unit of time or
unit of production);
2. TIchnoIogybied jandanis (specfying a pollution control technology, such as seubbers
3       to control sulu dioxde emissions);14
3.                    (setting a performanc goal, such as reducing pollutant emissions by
t       a fixed percentage, while allowing sources flexibility on how to reach that goal);
4.                 (limiting emissions per unit of product output andeor restiing or
banning the addition of certain substances to products, such as lead in gasoline); and
5. Pc             (resticing the use of certain substnces in the  ng   process.
such as limiting the use of organic solvents in order to reduce emissions of volatile organic chemicals.
QBA standads can be established tbrough general requirements that apply to al sources or to all
'     sources within a given category, such as aU companies witbin a given industry or located within a
geograpic region, such as a watershed. QBA standards that are tailored to the opeations of a
particular soumrce (such as source-specfic emison, technology or process requirements) are nomay
embodied in an env iomental permit or license issue to that source.
Advantage and disadvantages of QBA lnstuments. Most OEM counmies have achieved
I       significant reductions in pollution from sorae contaminants using predomi y QBA systems. Ihe
maim adyane of OA instm             is that they provide maximum certainty in terms of the projected
envmironment  improvements from regulaton. They can also pide additional ctty to firms by
n       clarifying what standards must be met and applying those standards across-the-board, thus minimiming
competition among firns with regard to meeting pollution requirens
The main disjdvgyaje of OBA i mm         is resticted source flexibility and relaed costs. Even
with reasonably adequate information about variations among regulated sources (which can be difficudt
and expensive to obtain), QBA standards will stll mis opportities to reduce the overal costs of
compliance available where some firms could control thek emissions more cheaply and effectively
13There are many different ways to characterize regulatory
instruments for pollution management. The author has adopted the
organization used by Janis Bernstein in her article cited in the
I       bibliography.
14An absolutely fundamental aspect of relying on control
I       equipment for pollution management  is proper operation and
miaintenance of the equipment.   This can pose  serious problems  in
developing countries because of problems such as inadequately
trained operators  and difficulty  in obtaining spare parts.
9



than others. QBA standards that rely on pollution control technologies leave little inceative for furtier
technology Innovadon once the standards are meL E;nally. QBA instruments are not effective to
addrss pollution problems gencrated by many small sources acting individually. such as urban solid
waste disposal or runoff flom agriculturm production.
I 
J      As noted above, PBA instuments awe built upon ambient sandards and QBA systemsL Tis section
descbes the main types of PBA instrumens. t then provides more detal about emisson charges and
tradable permits, the two PBA instruments that have been receving the most sszutiny as potentialy
a      integral components of pollution management regulation.
PBA instruments Indclude;
1. Taxes 2nd otber chares:
a. emission or effluent charges, the most commonly used PBA instrument, are based
directly on pollutant discharge, usually acording to some combination of volume and concentration of
conamminants, or toxicity and water consumption per unit of proDclction. They are applied almost
exclusively to water poltution.m6
b. taxes and otie charges may also be applied to inputs, such as fuels, or to products,
such as deposlefund systemsn  tt charge a fee for the puriase of a recyclable product and refund
2 that fee when the product is returd to a central collecting point Deposit-refiud systems are often
aimed at recyclable consumer products, such as glass or plastic containers. Car batries and other
lare batees may also be a use  target if the system extends beyond basic consumer goods.
c. administative carges (e.g., permit fees) and user chges (e.g, sewerage fees) are
also common.
2. Tzadablhe  its serve to maintin an overall limit on polhitant discharges within a
designated region (i.e., meet an ambient stndard) while allowing sources considerable flexibility
within that limit To begin, permits allowig emissions up to a specified linit per source are allocated
to sources in the region either according tD preexistng permit limits or through a government-
sponsored auctionL Thereafter, any source wishing to increase reguated emissons in the region
(through an expanded or new operaton) must purchase sufficient permited emission allowances to
cover the prjected icrease in emissions. Permit sales are accomplished throgh a formal market
'SQBA instruments can be used to reduce pollution from many
small sources where there are opportunities to regulate inputs.
Examples are restricting the lead content of gasoline to reduce
motor vehicle pollution,  and banning the use of CFCs in
refrigerators.
3             16Emission charges have had limited application to air
pollution in France, Japan and the Southern California area of
the United States.
10



established to implement the tradable permit system. Market forces determine the permit costs and
over time, the market should allow permits to be allocated among finms in the most cost-effective way.
3. Suhsidii7 include measures such as: tax aedits for environmental investments; grants or
low-cost loans to support research and development of innovative technologies; and subsidied costs
fbr desirable pwducts." Ihese measures are most effective in the early stages of regulatory progms
3    and are usually phased out over time.
Emission charges
:    Ewission charges are used in Eumope and Japan. as well as developing counties. Most common are
effluent chdges linked to water pollutionL In pinciple, emission charges could be set high enough to
provide a strong incentive for sources to reduce polution. However, there is appareny no cCcntry
wher the government has set emission charges with this as its main intent Instad, governments use
emission charges to coUeect revenues that can be earmarked for enrnena expendirs; the Cost tO
each source is too low to influence most polluters' behavior.19
"HHere we are considering subsidies to promote
environmentally beneficial behavior. In many countries, one more
commonly encounters arguments for eliminating subsidies that have
environmentally harmful effects, such as subsidies on the price
of water, energy and agricultural fertilizers and pesticides.
"8For example, Sweden charged a tax on cars without
catalytic converters and subsidized the cost of cars with
catalytic converters for several years to encourage the switch to
cleaner motor vehicle fuels. The program helped to achieve a
remarkably high rate cf conversions to cars with catalytic
converters. The government spent substantially more on subsidies
than it collected in taxes.
"9The main exception to date is the Netherlands.  There,
emission charges turned out to be high enough to help achieve
reductions in pollutant discharges. This was an unexpected
benefit of the system, which was intended to help raise
environmental revenues. The factors that resulted in actual
pollutant reductions are unique to the Netherlands. The country
has a high population density, concentrated agricultural and
urban activities, and a fragile environment.  These conditions
have by necessity led to some of the most advanced pollution
management practices in the world and a population that is used
to comparatively large environmental charges.
Also, the German government has begun using graduated pollution
charges specifically designed to give regulated facilities an
economic incentive to reduce their emissions of regulated
pollutants. The charges are substantial, and they increase each
year at a rate higher than inflation.
.-                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~11



Common uses of the revenues from emission cages include: paying for regulatory programs, a
revolving loan fund to help regulated sources mske capital investmenlts or other expenditures for
environenLal improvements; and in Japan, compensating victims harmed by pollution. Some
governments use a graduated system of emission charges to encourage sources to come into
j     complance more quickly. For example, in Germany, sources that meet or exceed stae-of-the-art
effluent standards pay hlf the basic rate; in Italy, the rate is ine umes higher for firms that ae not
yet meeting provisional effluent standards. In France, regional water autorities set charges partly
Iac     accrding to the degree of niion geneted. In other cases, companies may be assessed a
maximum estimated charge and be able to apply for a rebate based on lower emissions or resce
use. 
5      Results vnth emision charges. Emission chages can often seve as a good supplement to QBA
instruments. Emission charges have been quite effective in reducng the overall costs of pollution
regulation pnmarily by generating environmental revenues. However, they are not ordinarily lage
enough to produce notable im uveents in envronmel quality. Emission charges are most useful
in situations where there are numerous small sources. The charges should be adjusted over time to
I     reflect inflation.
Tradable permits. Mhe United States has been the mamn user of tadable permits. The most extensive
progam for tradable permits is under the Clean Air Act The Act iclies primarily on QBA
instuments, especiay emision and technology sandards. The tading provsions apply where
sources are able to reduce emions even more than required und  the Clean Air Act standards. In
those cases, the additional emission reductions may be credited and used for tading with other sources
|      that are having trouble meetg the regulatory emission limits.
Rests with trmdable  .mit. Like emission charges. tadable permits serve as a supplement to, rher
3 g; than a replacement for, QBA. In the US.. it has not been possible to attibute specific improvements
* 3  in air quality to their use. However, the overa rate of compiance und  the Clean Air Act has
inceased and the extra flexibility that permit trading offes to regulated somues has substatlly
1 reduced the total ost of compliance.
Permit tran is best siited to large companes because of the uiith transacon costs of idenifying a
trading partner and conductig a successful tade. The regulatory costs of adminsterig a permit
trading program are also high because of the need to carefully monitor and enforce permits and to
maint  accurat emission inventoies. The great majoity of air permit trades in the U.S. have been
for pollutants that are unifomy mixed in the atmosphere, such as volatie orgamc chemicals, becuse
there is no need for complex and expnsive dispersion modeling. Trades involving polutants that are
not uniformly mixed in the atmosphere have usually been at contiguous discharge pns at faciliies
with a common owner.
20In India,  polluters receive a rebate on their cess
payments for water if they can demonstrate than in fact they
placed less demand on the system than expected. Barrett at 125.
I       In Thailand,  there is a proposal to charge firms an annual rate
based on highest projected emissions and then offer a discount if
they can later demonstrate that in fact their emissions were
lower.   Wheeler at 50.
12



Choosing rqgulatory Instruments for pollution manaement
hIbis section draws together conclusions based on intational expeence and research, and
summarizes the main points to consider when comparing regulatory instruments.
I     Conclusions from experience and research
I           xVirtally all countries, regauRess of stage of development. have similr regulatory structures for
pollution managemewtn!' ITse consist of laws, EIA requirements, ambient standards and regulatory
systems that are based primarily on QBA. Most countrics also use PBA (such as emission charges) as
a~  a supplement to QBA, usually to raise revenues that help fnane eno      regulatory programs.
No goverment relies on PBA exdusively for pollution management
Regulaors in both industalized and developing countries show a strong pefrenc for QBIA despite
the theoretical snpeiority of PBA. In countries that already have QBA regimes. regulated compames
may resist adding PBA instruments because they want new compettors to have to comply with the
same QBA requirements as they did; also, they may perceve new PBA charges as "double payment"
if they have already installed pollution control technologies.
The main reasons why PBA does not seem to work as well in practice as in theory are: (1)
|     informational and technical problems in setting appropiate market size; (2) imperfecions in makt
function; (3) political obstacles to setting high enough charges; and (4) the strong preference of many
regulators for QBA in light of commonly encounted rgulatory conswain  and unceainties.
Another reason is that by the tume most governments begn to regulate industrial pollution, severe
Xenvirnmental problems exist that call for direct mitigation measures better suited to QBA regimes.
At that stage, governments may also want to use QBA insments to ban or serely restrict overall
Ul     use and discharge of certain bighly toxic chemicals.
Comparing regulatory instruments - In summary
There are no ready formulas for selecting regulatory instruments; the best choice depends on the
circumstanes in a particular situation. It is impanrt not to allow "the best to become the enemy of
the good" - there are no perfect solutions and any regime will require substantial evaluation and
adjustment for many years.
The foliowing principles are emerging fom the expence of industialized countries duming the last
two decades, and the far more limited experience of developing countries:
1. The main question is bow - not whether - to combine QBA and PBA instuments. QBA
will probably contnue to serve as the basis for regulatig polution. with PBA serving as a
valuable complement in many cases, especiaUly to reduce overlll program costs and to raise
revenues for fundin improvements in environmentl quality.
3             21The most significant differences are ones of national and
-       cultural style,  such as whether the regulatory process tends to
be more adversarial or consensual.
13



2. Key factors in designing rgulations for polution management include:
a. availability and quality of information;
b. defining the size of the designated control region and its nahte, in terms of sources
and environmental conditions; and
c. institutional capabilities of the responsible regulatory agences
3. One cannot automatically distinguish QBA and PBA based on the demands they place on
the resources of regulatory institutions and the regulated community. The diffent instrumena
in each category demand varying degrees of administrve and xhnical sophistication.
Successful implementation of any these instruments depends heavily on adequate instUtional
capabilites for monitng and enforcement These must be supplemented by adequate reoord-
keeping and self-monitonng of regulated sources, as well as the support of nongovernmental
organizations.
4. QBA instruments have an advantage:
a. where certainty about environmental results is more important than certainty about
I            ~~~~~costs;
b. If pollutants are highly toxic (in vwhich case the goal will be to reduce or entrely
eliminate emissions as quickly as possible);
c. if severe envi      prems already exi that require prompt control or
mitigation measures;
d. when the is a relatively small nmlber of large, complex sources of polluion;
e. if thae is a need to respond quicldy to intemitt problems, such as cutting back
souce operations when weather conditions exacerbate severe health hzads from air
poUution.
f. Where violatos are govemment e nses that are not likely to respond to changes
in pr-ce or other market pre es.
5. PBA instuments have an advantage:
a. where certinty about costs is more important than certainty about enviawmental
results;
b. where the goal is to influenc behavior early, before pollution problems have
become severe;
14



1
c. vith taxes and charges, to help  i revenues (and sometimes influence behavior)
where there are many small sources, especally if there is already an administrative
Isystm in place for idenifying those sources and reaching them;2
d. wnth tradable permits, to help inease compliance and reduce overall compliae
costs for pollutants that are not highly toxic if there is sufficient regulatory
administrative capadty and-
- for pollutantsth tend to disperse unformly, there aze enough large and vanied
sous tD find significant diffences in  coaftveness of reguloy
compliance;
- for polutn  that do not disperse evenly, internal trades ale possible between
sources with a common owna.
e. with subsidies. to induce shs in behavior or tecnology choice. especialy in the
early phases of pollution management programs.
i PST ~2: ERGULATING INDUSTRIAL, POLL,1ON IN BOLMA BACKGROUND
This section reviews:
- the legal and insfitutonal framework for pollution mnanagement in Bolivia;
- the mining seCtor, and
- other industial activities.
Leal and institutional framework for pollution management
Bolivia is following the geneal pate  described above for evolving regulation of pollution
22For example, effluent charges and user fees for water are
easier to implement where there are municipal water and sewer
systems; deposit-refund systems depend partly on coordinating
with commercial merchants.
23Information about legal and institutional issues is drawn
from the author's previous work in Bolivia for the JGF.
Information about mining and industry is based upon the SES
interim report and Bateman memo listed in the bibliography. The
SES interim report focused on mining and industry in the
Altiplano.   The team's field work in early 1993 will cover other
mining areas, most notably Potosi, and industrial activities in
Santa Cruz and Cochabamaba.



malagemenL26 The Goverment adopted a new umbrella   me ntl law in June 1992, the Ley
General del Medlo Ambiente (Environmental Law). The law  reated a smallen
coordinating agency, the Secretaia Nacional del Medio Ambiente (SENMA).
j SENMA is now in the early stages of preparing regulations on EIA. ambient environmental quality
stdards and polution managemenL These will be the first major regulatory efforts in these areas;
there awe no existing requirments fbr EIA and ony a few scattered national and local requirments
I      regarding water quity, none of them implemented effectively. SENMA is receiving assistance with
these and reated legal activities fom the World Bank through the Japanese Gat Facility (JGF). Me
JGF is a grant to help the Goverment shugth  its env    al legal and institutional framework.
^      in prepion for a World Bank environmental loan that will begin in mid-1993.
The Swedish Eni        l Systems project for which this paper has been prepared is linked to a
prospective World Bank Investment project for the industia and mining sectors. That proposed
project would provide for measures to mitigate pollution from industrial and mining activities.
In addition to    ons  abou technical measures, the SES project will include prefiminry
|     recommendations about necessary legal and instutional changes to improve pollution management
and ways to build upon existng requiremnts and institution  capabilities. k will also probably
include suggestions for one or more pilot activities for near-term application, as well as longer-term
|     strategies. SES team activities include field surveys of the mining and industial sectors, as well as an
assessment of legal and instituton capabilities. based on research about relevant legal and economic
sstems in Bolivia, and relevant inter onal expeience.
The SES project will be completed in approximately May 1993. This schdule should enable the
Govemment to use the project results as an input for the upcomig JGF regulatory work on pollution
a      management The author of this paper is involved with both activities and is assistng with
a  coordnaon
24Some of Bolivia's neighbors are also at the early stages
of developing pollution management programs with international
assistance. For example, Argentina has recently created a new
central  environmental agency and plans  to develop a National
Environmental System. It is also conducting a hazardous waste
management survey of Buenos Aires Province and will be
J      promulgating regulations under hazardous waste legislation that
was adopted  in 1991.   Chile will be following a program to
strengthen its new National Environmental Commission and related
I      institutions  that is similar to the work going on in Bolivia,
including some focus on industrial pollution.   Chile is also
considering the possibility of using tradable permits  to help
improve air pollution problems in Santiago.
16



The mining sector
The mining sector provides about 40% of Bolivia's national exprts. The sector has been undergoing
a tansformation since 1985, when recession made tin mining less profitable. Ihere has been a shift to
more mining of otaer metals. such as cadmium and zinc, which involve morc serious polution tan
mining tin; one important cause is increased use of reactive chemicals for processing, such as cyanide
and mercuy.
COMIBOL, the national miniqg enrpise, plans to privatize or close down its remaining holdgs.
There is a small number of mines partly owned by foreign investors who maintain reasonably high
g operting standards. including         men  safeguards. However. not all foreign owners have the
awareness, means or will to operate at this level. There is also a substantial and gmwing informal
sector of small-scale mining and artisana work that often employs youths and cbldren, as well as
adults. hese activities are outside any govermental control and present serious social and
enviromental problems.
Awareness about health and environmental problems associated with mining is limited and Bolivia has
little local expertise. There are essentially no environmental requirments governing the mining sector.
There is no clear, coherent framework of environmental monitoring dat although there is some dat
regarding a number of active and abandoned mms. There are no procedues for land reclamation or
to prevent additional environmental contamintion after a mine is closed.
The new Environment Law refers to mining activities but does not clearly specify bow to alocate
j       regulatory responsibilities in this area The Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy wil be estblishing a
new environmental unit. The Ministry plane to promulgate environmental regulations under the
Minig Code.
A summary of mainng problems rlated to health and envirnment include:
1. Natural resorce and landscape degrdation;
2. Use of limited water supplies (recyding only occurs where water for processing is very
Uoted);
3. Discharge of wastewaters that are often acidic and conuminated with heavy metals;
4. Discharge of process effluent conminated with heavy metals and hazdous reactive
chemicals;
5. Solid waste from mine tailings, waste rock, etc.;
6. Occupational health and safety problems (most serious in the infrmal sector, though a
problem everywbere except perhaps in some of the largest industnal operations);
7. Serious localized problems related to the informal sector, such as use of mercury for smali-
scale gold mining; and
17



8. Acual or potential conflicts  ith other land uses, such as adjacen towns (there is often no
zoning or other planning to segregate mining and civil acfivities25 and agricultue (for
example, in the Andacab-La Lava region souith of Potosi).
9. Leachg  of heavy metals from waste piles contining high concerons of pyite.
Mining activies expose the pyrite; the pyite can then combine wth oxygen in the air or
water to form sulfuric acd which laes out heavy metals.
Other Industdial actyidesI
a      Major non-ming industi activities indude: cement production; metals and metal finishing; the
petroleum. pemxbemical, chemical and hamaetcal industries; lead batey production; textiles;
leather tanning; plywood manufacture; edible oil production; and food and crop processing. Of these,
petrleum refning ant food processing accounted for more man 50% of total ma tug out  in
1989.
The major industal regions are Cochabemba (responsible for about 113 of manufactring output i
1989. largely due to the govemment-dominated petroleum refining industry) and Santa Cruz
(about 114 of manufacuirng output in 1989. with privat sector acivities dominant). Mme third largest
indkstial region is La Paz, also dominated by the private sector.
The SES team has not yet surveyed Cochabamba and Santa Cruz; this will be done in eady 1993.
SES surveys of the Altiplano found  a there are:
- One large cement fr (no inormation provided).
- A number of    smelis. Of five sta-owned smelters, only one is fairly active and
Ge?man bilaeral assistan  is helping to improve it. The scatered pnvate smelters are too
small to cae  major enviromnental problems, although there are local problems.
- A variety of m   ing  peraons, mosty factories pdug for the local  mt
These present a wide mix of conditions. Some ms have relatively new facilities
that probably could comply with basic envinmental requiements, such as restrictions on
effluent disharges, if they had an incentive to do so. Obstacles that they cite indude the lack
of physical space to install additional equipment or processes for pollution management and
the futility of acting individuay when so many olhers do nothing. Also, te  is no common
sewage system or other infrastruace or zoning arangements to facilitate industrial pollution
management
In addition to the more mode  mug facilities in tbe Altiplano, there are manvy o d
2"Mining in the Altiplano has contaminated large supplies of
water that the Government had intended to use eventually for the
water supply in La Paz. Many of these mines are now abandoned.
Information provided by Luis Prado, World Bank consultant
(October 1991).
18



rdmnL often run by small producers. Some of these are highly polluting factories that are only
marginally viable economically. The large informal industrial sector of microenteprises poses yet
another level of social and enviromental problems.
T Ibis section will first review some general pnciples for sefting priorites and designing progmams to
regulate indusial pollution in Bolivia. It vwll t   present tentative recommentions at two levels:
1. Basic activities and programs that can be implemented at least minimally under present
limitations; and
2. More sophisticated progrms tgeted tward specific pollution prblems, to be developed
|gradualy as information and national capabilities grow.
Genera! prindples
Tbis secfion first recommends some initial priorities for pollution management in Bolivia and then
reviews basic considerations for designing progams to regulate industia pollution.
Initial priorities
Tbe Government has very limited resorces for pollution mangemenL Ihareire, it needs to identify
where it has the gratest possibility of affecting the behavior of industrial polluters to maximize public
benefits. In the early stages, it is especially important to target some areas where modest progess is
I      possible to build credibility for the regulatory system  Mhis is, of course, much easier said than done.
However, one can derive some principles from t  international expeience descibed in Part 1 of this
paper.
The gat  oppouities will probably be wher indsral restructiring is akig place (e.g.,
PIivatization of government-owned mining) and in any plans for stngtheng other industial sectors
Work on these areas should indude options for usig EIA (for new sources) and environmental audits
(for existing sources) to help evaluate overall potential for increased enviromental efficiency. These
reviews should include a careful watch for any relatively easy, cheap measures that can reduce
environmental hazards.
2. The initial focus should probabWy be on large stationary surces that affect many people (or
key ecosystems) because of their location and thei volume and/or toxicity of pollutans discharged.Z
I
26In countries with larger urban areas and more heavy motor
vehicle traffic than Bolivia,  another possibility for early
action would be to introduce modest reductions of lead
concentrations in gasoline.
19



Large soures are easier to identify and regulate and offer the greatest potential pollution reductions
per source. If for some reason ths should not prove feasible as a first appach another possibility is
to focus on clusters of medium or small sources with similar problems that are near each other and so
could shae common resource recovery or waste treatment facilities.O It would not make sense to start
vwith rying to regulate individual sources assocated with nicoenteprises and the informal sector. It
might be difficult just to adequatey identify all such sources; efforts in this direction would probaly
only work as a component of a broader social and economic program.
3. Coordinate Industra pollution planning with municipal and ant luse planninp.
Some urgently needed improvements in the indsrial sector will probably depend in part on
t       strengtening public infa    s for sanitation and waste management Eventually, the Govemnment
will need to pursue zoning or other mechanisms in some areas to separate industrial actvities fom
residential and commercial areas and grup tlem to facilitate provision of inhastructure and joint
pollution management strategies.
Program design
1. The _ovemment should have sp_cfic _Rogam guac in mind as it selects reglato=y
insruimct.
Mem most importnt lesson from internatiol experience is that the  is no set formula for selecting
and combining regulatory instuments. Maximm effectiveness depends on: (1) carefully setting
j     priorities; (2) undsing as much as possible about what can reasonably be accomplis  given
local needs, opportities and cons;taint; and (3) flexible implementtion, with ongoing evaluation
and feedback Thus, it is important for te Government to have a conceptual design for its pollution
management programs before it begins developng regulations. This inuludes deciding how to spend
money to be collected through fees or other charges reated to poDution management
bhere is not yet enough informaaion avalable to be able to recmmend how best to combine quanuty-
based and pnce-based approaches in Bolivia Ihe Government should consider using some charge
mechanism to support any major regulatory undertaking, given its fiancial restrictions; a prliminary
coonsidon Is what charges are possible unde existng legal and economic regimes. Pollution
chwges and user fees will probably be most readily applied in the near term, but other charge and tax
mechamisms should be considered as apppiate. Tradable permits wil not be a realistic option until
there is significantly more institutional capability and industry awareness, however, potential
applications of this approach should be noted for future reference.
Adopting new regulations is a cumbersome process and difficult to change once the regulatons are
final. Iherefore, as the Govenment begins to develop new regulatory requirements, oe.opion nigh
be to delay final adoption of some roosed reuements until there has been a peiiod of study or
X27For example, the World Bank is lending fuLids for an
industrial pollution mitigation project in India that focuses on
medium-sized polluters.
20
!U



even expm l aition For example, there may be cases where a small number of companies
might be willing to try out proposed requirements on a voluntary basis for a limited time, in order to
gain a beter understanding of how they would work Any such arrangement would call for the
Government, Industry and other interested parties to agree upon the conditions for carrying out the
activity and evaluating the results.
2. AUl new proeani shonld build upoo eisting institutionatl infr2structures sand capailfics,.
to the maximum extent possible.
For any proposed pollution management regulatory activities, the Govenunent should study how they
.;ccan be stnuctured to fit best with existing institutional fuaimons and activities, hov. ,er limited, Ihis
will be less expensive than creating new institutional and administrative structures. Also. it will help
to increase enviromnental awaess and capacity in exisfting institutions, a critical factor to program
success. Another point to consider is whether ongOing donor-asisted projects could serve as the basis
for some of these efforts.
3. Lines, of ir'mtititional authority will bave to be clarifie
'Ibis should be a cetral aspect of regulatory doi  because it may affect the way that regulations
should be drafted to facilitate implementationL Most, if not all opeational responslbibities will have to
be assigned to sectoral national agencies or to departmental and local govermnent, in keeping with
point #2 above. Also, SENMAs central and regional staff will be too small to manage these
programs, although they may serve a critical role as advie  and catlysts.
4. T'he prgrms will have to evolve tbghronea consltaftWve. consernsul prh
Xhe Government will not bave the manpower, economic, political or legal power to use enforcement
aganst violators as an implementation tool, except in rare and extreme crc s . Bolivia has
ready been tryng to build a national consensus through development of the E meal Law and
the national environmental action plan. Tbis experience should offer a valuable base. although
negotiating detiled envirnmental requirements for important economic activities wiU bring
discussions to a mom difficult level of specificity.
5. Timebes for Coliance should be in=Crmt_ald  aisc tD increase the likehood of
compliance and to reduce the need for protracted negotiations with individual sources in the early
years.
It is always diffcut to strike a satsfactory balance. Sefting ambitious goals that are wholly umealistic
creates an impossible situaon that wil demomalize participants and undercut the Government's
28For example,  the German government is supporting
improvements at the Vinto smelter in the Altiplano and the
Japanese government is funding a pilot activity to clean process
water at the Bolivar mine.   The lessons learned from these
projects could help with shaping regulatory programs, as well as
improving technical processes.
21
JR



credibility; seting goals that are too lax may fail to motivate Industry to reasonable efforts toward
progress.
How to set phased implementation goals dsould be negotiated with industrial organizations and other
interested parlies. Ibis may extend the timetables, but can promote better chances of cooperation.
Sevral U.N. organization?" can provide guidance on the experience of other comtries, and sometimes
technical assistance, too.
6.  uiildlnp a roo Information ba_e is  L
The shortage of baseline data on enviromental poUution offers an opportunity to establish guidelines
for information gathing and management that will maximize the availability of useful, compatible
monitoring data. As part of its work on EIA and pollution management, te Government should make
It a priority to improve enviromenl laboratoy capabilities and to develop some basic guidelines on
sampling and monitoring that are suited to pmactical limitations in Bolivia. lbese should be
coordinated with international donors 2S much as possible. since they will be funding much of the
initial field work- It may be worth considering whether to devdop a basic information sheet tha
would facilitate entering data into a centra computer system, perhaps to be maintained by SENMA as
part of the new national environmental information system mandated by the Environmental Law.
Besides gathering infonnation about enonmental data, the govemment will also need to monitor and
evaluate the effectiveness of its regulatory efforts. This should be kept in mind when designiag
programs and planning for any information reporng  qirements.
7. Ecation shou_ d be a centr_ aacm =
Govemment and industry, with inpt fom NGOs, will be the major players in developing regulatory
rquir     . The Government should also seek to cooperate with univerAsities and research centers
where they can contribute to building baseline data, and monitorag and reseah capabilities.
All actors in the negotiation and implementation of pollution management requirements will need
education and often mining to enable them to canry out their  sibilities. Ihese new programs
will generate a need for specialists in many fields. and higher education inDSitUtions should be
encouraged to belp supply this ned They can also help to orient the broad range of professionals
whose work will touch on these areas.
Building awarens in the general public can be done both thmugh public education and through
government outreach and the communications media Publicity is a two-efged sword, and while
governments and industry are often udestandably reluctant to broadcast informaton about problem
*     areas, public concern is often the most powerful incentive and support for improving pollution
management.
29For example, the U.N. Industrial Development Organization,
the U.N.  Industry and Environment Programme,  and the World Health
Organization.   The International Environment Bureau of the
International Chamber of Commerce can also be a valuable source
of information.
22



Bade 2ctlylde and aproghm
These a  broad-based wdons that can help to lay Ihe grundwork for be e tewd regulatory
progmms. Suggestions for how the SFS team can help follow each item in this section and the
following one on targeting morn specific problems.
*         ~~~1. Rtbish amhient evironmenta quaity Pogis to sarve my, a framework for designing
pollution mneent rgms and evaluntin envimnmnental q_ality Ihis is one of the activities
.1     scheduled for JGF assistanmc  The paamees selected sould be for contaminants that can prDvide a
broad genal picture of envi al conditions and be monitored reltively easily. hese ambient
w      goals and related environmental parameters may need to vary regionally to reflect different conditions
and resource uses in differet parts of Bolivia.
How SES can help: Recommend pollutants to select for ambient standards and/or provide available
information that can help in making a selection.
2. Consider whether and if so. how to r re phad compliance with ambient standards for
I  sourcesg that 2re not yet subject to more specficenioetareiemt.
IThis will require a closer look at the size and range of industrial activities and what means are
available to improve pollution managemenL If this appears to be a feasible approach, it should be
possible to develop a fairly simple matrix, with the largest, most polutng sources on the tightest
timetable and smaler, less polluting sources given more leeway.
This would not be intended to provide comprehensive coverage of all pollution sources Rather, it
would serve as a -regulatory safety net" for important category of sources to begin raising awarenss
l    and  taking at least minimal steps to begin improving pollution management. It may be appropriate in
some cases to begin with requrements for monitoing and facility reviews, and then move fiom there
to perfmance targets or other requirements
HIowSES can help: Suggest how to categonize industries and sources - which should be included in
the first round of generic regulation, what sort of matrix to establish, etc.
3. Consider whether and if so, how to esalish a basic pollution charge that would generate
revenues to help fund these efforts and peraps encourage better complian
Any such plan should be clear about which institutional authorities would collect the fees and how the
money would be spent Use of the money should be closely tied to pollution management efforts. It
will probably not be possible to set fees high enough to influence source behavior, though this
I     possibility should be considered. The most promising way to do this might be to target major sources,
citber through a graduated fee system or as part of the more targeted regulatory programs discussed
below.
I      How SES can help: Suggest how to design such a program; for example, which sources to chaqe,
whether fees should be graduate  which Institution(s) shoud collect then, and how the money should
X      be spent
23
I



Pro nas targete  toward spefc pollution probleXm
This section recormmtnends possible actions that the Government might take in beginning to develop
more targeted pollution management activities.
i            1. The first piority should be to work on prvatzatlon of the mining sector.
IThe mining sector Is central conoically and mines are a major source of pollution. Ibe coming
restructuring of tis sector offers a unique opptity to inject better envirnmental management If
the Goverment misses this opportuity, it will be much more difficult to make improvements later.
n      How SES can helr: Ihe SES team should work closely with the Ministry, COM[BOL and SENMA
to identify possible steps to be taken as soon as possible. (rhe few well-operated mines with foreign
I     ownerShip and perhaps other private mining companies coudd also provide valuable advice.) If the
Ministry is close enough to establishing its new environmental unit, this process could be broadened to
include some planning for the new unit.
2. Recommend issues and problems that can help the Govnment shape its conceptual
framework for industinal pollution imnagement- Itilue ugsin about possible comhinations of
quantiy-based and pfice-based appranches
As aLready discussed, it is important that the initial regulations be designed to fit likely directions of
feasible implemenation. The SES project should be very helpfiul in shaping the JGF regulatory
activities that will follow immediatey aferwards.
How iES can help: Proide   ommendations and guidance for the JGF work on suggested prionties
a       for drafting regulations, including areas where subaially more groundwork (such as ifmation
gatering and institiona carifications) is needed before draffing regulations. Besides more general
questions about polution management, the team shoud address: which regulatory istuments may be
most appropriate for diffeent problems; how to set protities for application of the new EIA
requirements to industral facilities; and whether and how to intmduce environmental auditing as a
basic pollution management tool.
3. Identify a smal number of modest pilot or phased activities to help design and/or
imnlement ealulalorv  s .
The emphasis shoud be on "smal" and "modest" No centra ogovernment unit should have the lead
on more than one or two activities, and no local institution should have the leaI on more than one.
Tbe scope of each activity should be suited to the available institutional capacity to "'.sign and
,administer iL Planning should take ino account the need for comrination and support from SENMA
or any other centraly placed istitution that is involved.
hee is not enough information available yet to make specfic suggestions here for pilot activities.
Ihe government should consider both QBA and PBA instruments, as seems most appropriate in each
situation. Examples of the types of activities to be consdered might include:
- priorties for addressing different categories of mining problems associated with active or
abandoned mines.
24



- a category of industrial sources or a cluster of industrial activities thmt would be sutitable for
early work on better pollution nanagemeuL This might imclude one or two locations where
the pollution work could be coordinated with more general improvements in municipal
infrastructure.s
- whether there is sufficient danger of a major industrial accidet in any area to wawrant
making emegency prparedns an eady focus 31
3              - how to integrate occupaonal health and safot ilto industal en ent projects.
: lEHowS-annel: Suggest actual activities, if the has be  enough information and  ntact vith
the appropriate insatutions. Otherise, suggest a preimiary list of activities vith reom ons
on what additional information is necessary to develop specific proposals.
4. IdentifE any crnteconomic. policies that should heevaluated for their impat n
A common example is subsidied water and energy prces that discourage conservaion of scarce
nahn  resoures.
Ho.w SES can help: This is not a major focus of the SES project, but the team should note any
suggestions in this area
J
30For example, for effluent discharges, one could explore
the possibility of installing settling ponds that would feed into
a municipal wastewater collection system.
311f so,  the Government  should consult with the U.N.
Industry and Environment Office about its worldwide program on
*      Awareness and Preparedness  for Emergencies at the Local Level.
25



B3RMJGRAPHY
Larry B. Barett, Jorgen Magner and Henrik Dr,  cxnmc Incentives _tuft        Id
=ronmcnS Pej   Report to the World Bank (June, 1990).
Deborah Batemnn Backrond on the Bolivin Mning. Aicuture and  anufaring Seetors world
Bank. LA3TF (Draft. Oct 20,1992).
.; Ruth Gree(pa Bel, Ind_sral PriVati7ation an the Enviment i  oLBand 22 Envirnmental Law
Reporter 10092 (Feb. 1992).
n       Janis D. Benstein, ALTSNATIVE APPROACHES TO POI I j MON COR    AND
MANAGEMAENT. Regulator andEaonornic Instruments. Urban Management Program Discussion
Paper Series, No. 3, UNDP, World Bank & UNCHS (April 1991).
Gunnar S. Eskeland and Emmanel Jimenez. CHOOSING POLICY INSI R       UMNI  MoR
POLLUIMON CONTROL: A Revii.w Wodd Bank, Country Economics DepL, Working Paper No.
WPS 624 (March 1991).
Faith Halter, May 12 Mssion to Bolia for the Lga Com nt of the Japanese Grant Facil
| Memoranum to Kanella Vaiades, Wodd Banlc (June 12, 1992).
Fith Halt  T                                                                m
J      ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEENT IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES, 223-54, OECD
Development Centre (1991).
Arik Levinson and Sudhir Shetty,                   _ E
Urban Air Pollu__on. I" ABZele Mexico City. Cubatao and Ankara background paper for the 1992
Wotld Development Report, The World Bank (Aug. 1992).
Bekir Onursal,  rn inmentaLft rian1ing- World Bank (April, 1992).
Swedish Environmental Systems, BOLIVA: Industti2l Polufon uitgalon !hdy- Prog= RC=
(De. 1992).
TM. Teitenberg,       c _norttnentq fbrF _ _on_e_           Oxford Review of Econ Policy,
Vol. 6, No. 1, 17-33 (1990).
David Wheeler.
E      ve. Industry and Energy Dept. Working Paper. Inds. Series Paper No. 60 (Jan. 1992).
(October, 1992).0989
World Bank, W                                                                    Cha
3. Oxford University Press (1992).
26



APPENDIX IV.2
SECrORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRLAL
SECTORS IN BOLIVIA
t    INSTRUMENTOS ECONOMICOS APLICABLES A LA GESTION
AMBIENTAL DE LA MINERIA E INDUSTRIA
by Marthadina Mendizibal de Finot
I
I



2
.1
INDICE
INTRODUCCION
PRIMERA PARTE:           El contexto econ6mico, legal, administrativo y politico para la
Besti6n Ambiental
Pag.
1. Marco econ6mico
1.1 La politica econ6mica global .....       4
1.2 El sector externo                 5
1.3 La poliftica del sector industrial.      6
1.4 La poliftica del sector minero ....      6
2. Marco legal
2.1 Ley de Inversiones  ...............  7
2 2 El C6digo de Minerfa  .............  8
2.3 La Reforma Tributaria  ............  9
2.4 Reglamento sobre Lanzamiento de
Desechos lndustriales  ...........    12
2.5 Los Bienes Nacionales en la Cons-
7                                tituci6n Politica del Estado ....      12
3. Marco Poiftico .13
4. La politica ambiental                    14
4.1 El nivel nacional                 14
4.2 El nivel departamental            14
4.3 El nivel local                    15
SEGUNDA PARTE: Instrumentos Econ6micos Vigentes
1. Descripci6n de incentivos y decincentivos
de orden general .16
2. Instrumentos vigentes a nivel nacional          17
2.1 Instrumentos vigentes en la industria  17
2.2 Instrumentos vigentes en la mineria     19
3. Instrumentos vigentes a nivel departamental  21



3
4 Instrumentos vigentes a nivel local .....  21
TERCERA PARTE: Instrumentos basados en el mercado aplicables
a la Gesti6n Ambiental
1. Consideraciones para la selecci6n de
instrumentos econ6micos                    23
2. Adaptaciones a partir de los instrumentos
contemplados en las leyes vigentes ...25
3. Instrumentos econ6micos: posibles aplica-
ciones ......................       28
3.1 Instrumentos para el control de la
contaminacidn de aguas y superficie  28
3.1.1 Cargos efluentes               28
3.1.2 Cargos por uso                31
3.1.3 Permisos negociables           33
3.1.4 Subvenciones                   35
3.1.5 lncentivos para cumplimiento         37
3                         3.2 Instrumentos para la protecci6n de
aguas subterrineas    -                    39
3.2.1 Subvenciones                  39
3.2.2 Incentivos para el cumpli-
miento                  40
3.3 Instrumentos para el control del aire  40
3.3.1 Cargos por emisiones          41
3.3.2 Cargos por uso, por productos
y cargos administrativos      42
3.3.3 Creaci6n de mercados          42
3.3.4 Subvenciones                  44
3.3.5 Incentivos para cumplimiento         44
3.4 Instrumentos para el Manejo de
Desechos S6lidos                    44
3.4.1 Cargos por eliminaci6n        44
3.4.2 Cargos por productos          45
3.4.3 Subvenciones                  45
3.4.4 Sistema de reembolso y de-
p6sito .47



4
4. Otros instrumentos a considerar  .........  49
CUARTA PARTE:   Procedimientos para la Adopci6n de Instrunmentos Econ6micos para
la Gesti6n Ambiental
1. Tareas para el plazo inmediato  ..........  49
2. Adopci6n de instrumentos a nivel nacional        51
3. Adopci6n de instrumentos a nivel local..         51
4. Aspectos institucionales  ................  53
4.1 El FONAMA como responsable de los
Instrumentos Econ6micos  ..........    53
4.2 Apoyo a instituciones  .............      54
CONCLUSIONES .50
Lista de legislacion mencionada
Bibliografia consultada
xxx 0 XXX
l
!
I



5
INTRODUCCION
La Secretarfa Nacional del Medio Ambiente, SENMA. estd abordando la reglamentaci6n de la Ley
General del Medio Ambiente. La consideraci6n de los instrumentos economicos complementarios
a las regulaciones que seran incorporadas en esta reglamentaci6n. exige la consideraci6n del marco
econ6mico, administrativo, legal y polftico vigente en el pars.
El marco econ6mico dentro del cual deberS encuadrarse la Estrategia de Gestidn Ambientat a
disefiar, estd definido par la Nueva Polftica Econ6mica (NPE) adoptada en 1985. que sera
continupda por la Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo, la misma que define la orientaci6n de las
reformas que debera adoptar el pais en el corto. mediano y largo plazo. Es importante considerar
que esta Estrategia no es inflexible. pues ha previsto ia incorporaci6n peri6dica de todas las
reformas que se considere necesario siempre y cuando estas sean coherentes con el modelo. En
ese entendido, los instrumentos econ6micos a adoptar tienen amplia cabida.
La adopci6n de incentivos debera orientarse a corregir :as imperfecciones del mercado, y particu-
larmente los costos sociales que normalmente no son previstos por los agentes privados. Los
estimulos econ6micos deberSn justificarse como instrumentos dirigidos a internalizar dichos costos,
e inducir conductas para corregir tales imperfecciones, asi como a recaudar recursos para financiar
el tratamiento colectivo de ia contaminaci6n.
En esta perspectiva, el presente trabajo constituye una etapa preliminar, que apunta a sentar las
bases para una propuesta de instrumentos basados en el mercado, que apoyen a una politica de
regulaci6n ambiental.
Para ello se presenta los diferentes instrumentos, sus limitaciones y posibilidades de implementa-
ci6n luego de una adaptaci6n. Esto no significa implementar todos a la vez; De lo que se trata, es
de establecer las bases que permitan la elecci6n de instrumentos en funci6n de los problemas que
se pretende enfrentar, para lograr la mejor combinaci6n de instrumentos que apoye la aplicaci6n
de regulaciones ambientales.
En este sentido se describe en una orimera parte, el marco econ6mico, legal y politico dentro del
cual habra que situar los instrumentos econ6micos. Asi, se presenta las principales orientaciones
en materia de poliftica econ6mica que influiran en la definici6n de los instrumentos. De igual
manera. se describe los instrumentos legales vigentes dentro de los cuales tendra que enmarcarse
Ia estrategia a diseiiar. Paralelamente se hace una presentaci6n muy breve del contexto politico
en la actualidad y en el corto plazo, y luego, se describe las polfticas ambientales adoptadas en
los diferentes niveles en relaci6n al tema.
}      En una segunda oarte, se describe los incentivos y desincentivos econ6micos que condicionan
directa o indirectamente el comportamiento en relaci6n con el media ambiente en los niveles
nacional, departamental y local.
En una tercera varte y luego de algunas consideraciones para la eleccidn de instrumentos
econ6micos, se describe la posibilidad de cada uno de los instrumentos disponibles, en funci6n de
la experiencia de otros paises, analizando en cada caso sus posibilidades de implementaci6n, las
adaptaciones o condiciones para su adopci6n, y el tratamiento individual respecto al procedimiento
4



6
para su establecimiento.
En una cuarta Darte se describe los procedimientos administrativos a seguir para lograr su vigencia
en el pais, y los aspectos institucionales complementarios. Finalmente se incluye algunas conclu-
3       siones del trabajo.
En la perspectiva de velar por la correcta interpretaci6n del contenido del presente trabajo. resulta
oportuno aclarar lo que la autora entiende por la problematica ambiental especffica de la minerra.'
Esta actividad tiene una doble connotaci6n ambiental. La nrimera es la que deriva de la contami-
naci6n de los recursos que utiliza y en los que descarga sus desechos y la degradaci6n del entorno
dentro del cual actua.
La segunda connotaci6n se refiere al agotamiento de los recursos de los que vive la regi6n de
donde estos son extrardos. agotamiento que conlieva - de no evitarse este fen6meno oportunamen-
-I    te-, el riesgo de su decadencia y muerte como centros poblados. En efecto, si bien tales recursos
no pueden ser conservados, en carnbio sf pueden contribuir efectivamente a la conservaci6n
ambiental. Esto significa, orientar los beneficios que genera la exportaci6n de los recursos
minerales, hacia el desarrollo de alternativas econ6micas que permitan a los centros pobla-
dos/regiones que viven de tales recursos, sobrevivir al agotamiento de los mismos.
En la medida en que los beneficios de las actividades mineras contribuyen al proceso de
industrializaci6n y/o a la buisqueda de opciones altemativas, en esta medida se justifica el costo
ecol6gico que se deriva de las actividades extractivas. Esta es la posici6n asumida en el presente
trabajo.
I
U
'Estas ideas han sido desarrolladas en diversas publicaciones de la autora, lo mismo que en
conferencias sobre el tema.



7
PRIMERA PARTE:   EL CONTEXTO ECONOMICO, LEGAL Y POLITICO PARA LA GESTION
AMBIENTAL
1.  MARCO ECONOMICO
1.1 La portica econ6mica global
La Nueva Politica Econ6mica establecida por D.S. 21060 en 1985 determina una nueva
orientaci6n de la economra, que marca el paso de una economia altamente proteccionista
a un modelo de liberalizacifn de los mercados internos tanto de bienes como de servicios,
asr como la tendencia a una mayor apertura hada el exterior. Se sienta con ello las bases
para lievar a la economba boliviana-hacia un esquema de libre mercado donde los precios
son fijados a traves de las fuerzas de oferta y demanda.
Este D.S. establece un nuevo ordenamiento al suspender todas las subvenciones
existentes, tasas de fomento, lineas de credito preferenciales, y en fin, todas las formas
de tratamiento preferencial que hasta entonces tenia el sector productivo coma estimulo
para sus actividades, y de los cuales se hizo en la prictica un uso prebendal y abusivo.
La Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo recientemente publicada2 tiende a profundizar las
reformas introducidas en 1985, es decir:
3                   1 Basa todo el quehacer econ6mico en la actividad privada, lo que implica una
drastica reducci6n de la injerencia estatal en las actividades econ6micas, laborales.
empresariales, y en la suoresidn de norm as aue limitan la oarticioaci6n del sector
orivado. En todos los casos, la invervenci6n estatal debera ser concordante con la
naturaleza del mercado.
13 Las reformas se orientan a profundizar los elementos de cambio estructural del
programa econ6mico y social: descentralizacidn v modernizaci6n del Estado para
que este sea compatible con una economia de mercado.
13 Las Reformas se orientan tambien a consolidar la instituci6n del mercado como
el mejor asignador de recursos. Pero, al reconocer que algunos mercados son imper-
fectos, se define uno de los roles del Estado, de introducir todas las correcciones
necesarias.
1.2   El sector extemo
El modelo prioriza la aplicaci6n de una politica de promoci6n de exportaciones, que
permita iniciar un crecimiento sostenido del sector exportador nacional. En este
sentido:
;REPUBUCA DE BOIIVIA. IAnutui. de P_wiwrinie y Cowinad6n Emtrat.g. Ncindl de De"ouwlo: Un hInrmnto pwa la Conc'wteMn. La Paz. 1992
JR



8
t  Se ha logrado unificar el tipo de cambio para hacer competitivas las
exportaciones mediante la subasta de divisas. Se ha eliminado la mavorra de
las restricciones cuantitativas y se ha adoptado un arancel uniforme nara qas
irnDortaciones (10%). que recientemente se ha rebajado al 5%  para los
bienes de capital.
3 La Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo propone mantener una las
arancelaria baia para promover la reasignaci6n eficiente de los recursos, de
ta! manera que la producci6n nacional se ajuste a los principios de eficiencia
y ventaja comparativa para competir en el mercado interno y externo. Se
sePiala tambi6n que el manejo arancelario no debe dejar de considerar los
impactos fiscales.
13 Las exportaciones no tradicionales3 son estimuladas gracias a la politica
I                         de tipo de cambio y a estfmulos tributarios (10% de credito fiscal primero
y draw back despues). La politica de reintegro planteada en la Estrategia de
Desarrollo sugiere profundizar el regimen de promocifr, perfeccionando la
I                         devoluci6n de los aranceles emergentes del Gravamen Arancelario Consc-
lidado (GAC) y del Impuesto al Valor Agregado, asi como estableciendo la
devoluci6n del impuesto a las transacciones.'
1.3   La politics del sector Industria
La Nueva Politica Econ6mica marca dentro de este sector, el desarrollo de la activi-
dad en el libre mercado, reemplazando el modelo de sustituci6n de importaciones,
por uno de libre competencia como regulador de los precios. Esto tuvo un prinner
impacto importante para el desarrollo del sector, y que emergi6 del levantamiento
de todas las medidas de tratamiento preferencial.
La Estrategia plantea la adaptaci6n a las nuevas reglas del juego de la economfa
internacional, a fin de alcanzar eficiencia y competitividad en base al aprovecha-
miento de las ventajas comparativas. Esto supone:
0 La modemizaci6n de la industria, a fin de viabilizar la transferencia de
tecnoloaia, a traves de inversiones de riesgo compartido (joint ventures)5
entre empresas nacionales y multinacionales, e inversidn externa.
1  Evitar Droteper a las industrias que por su retraso tecnol6gico ylo
Enune mtst figuruan rcrce nwuales quo debwan am _dmmoda a travds de p[ticS do ctnervoci6n. toles Carno to rnoden. cuoram y productoS do la
I      diyonidod b;ial6co
Todo ollb eS plIntoado an ml Poyoeto d  Lay de Ezpertacions% actuaolen     n Considerodin en *I Conarmo    Naoci l.
5EI contrato de riesgo compartido o 'joint venture", consiste en la asociaci6n temporal de dos
empresas en la perspectiva de explotar un recurso.



l                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
ausencia de capacidad empresarial, no pueden competir en el mercado
intemo ni externo;
1 La b6isqueda de mecanismos que contribuyan a la superaci6n de la
obsolescencia en el sector, mediante la reconversi6n de las industrias v su
orientacifn hacia la exoortaci6n:
13 La irormoci6n de iniciativas de innovaci6n a partir de las propias
empresas.
1.4   La politica del sector Minerla
En este sector, el gobierno busca las condiciones y mecanismos para la atracci6n
de capitales de riesgo privado, nacional e intemacional, pues se considera que la
minerha estatal no tiene posibilidades de efectuar las inversiones de gran magnitud.
Ciertamente, en lo relativo a la protecci6n ambiental, la minerfa estatal no esta en
condiciones para asumir esta responsabilidad, raz6n por la cual se pretende
incorporar en la minerfa nacionalizada los contiatos de riesgo compartido y de
arrendamiento.
Las poirticas adoptadas en 1985 han supuesto profundas y drasticas medidas de
ajuste estructural, algunas de ellas dramaticas en el contexto social. A partir de
5                   entonces, todo tratamiento preferente a la minerfa fue levantado. Las polfticas se
orientaron a los siguientes prop6sitos principales:
13 Evitar el colapso de la minerfa tradicional, preservando su base producti-
va, a traves de su reactivaci6n Esto supone abrir espacios a la inversi6n
nacional y extranjera privada, capaz de incoroorar tecnologia y capacidad
empresarial mediante la conformacion de asociaciones de riesgo compartido
entre capitales privados y empresas estatales;
3 Generar un proceso de exoansi6n v fortalecimiento del sector a niveles
acordes con el potencial mineral6gico del pais, en condiciones de rentabili-
dad y competitividad;
13 Eliminar el intervencionismo y proteccionismo estatales;
0 Establecer lineas de financiamiento aprooiadas para la mineria y
programnas de asistencia tecnica para la mineria chica y cooperativas.
La Estrategia Socia Econ6mica seniala que las inversiones puiblicas se dirigiran en lo
que respecta a la mineria, a proyectos de infraestructura de apoyo al sector minero
en las actuales zonas de explotaci6n.
2.  MARCO LEGAL
4



10
2.1   La Ley de Inversiones
En septiembre de 1990 se aprob6 la nueva Ley de Inversiones que se orienta a
establecer reglas de juego claras, estables, transparentes para la inversi6n privada
I                    nacional y extranjeras. Esta Ley garantiza la propiedad, la libre remisi6n de utilidades
al exterior, capitales e intereses, dividendos y regalras, la libertad cambiaria y la
transferencia tecnol6gica. De igual manera prohlbe las nacionalizaciones sin
compensaci6n, aarantiza un regimen tributario estable en el larco Dlazo y simplifica
el proceso de aprobaci6n de inversion externa. En fin, determina los seguros de
invcrsion y el arbitraje internacional para las controversias.
2.2   La Ley de Acutalizaci6n del C6digo de Mineria
La principal contribuci6n de la Ley No.1297 de 199 1, ha sido la eliminaci6n de los
impuestos a la producci6n y a las exportaciones, y su sustitucion por un regimen
impositivo unico y general. Este iiltimo consiste en un impuesto del 30% sobre las
utilidades netas anuales. y un impuesto complementario equivalente al 2,5% sobre
el valor neto de las exportaciones o ventas internasP.
Con relaci6n al impuesto complementario del 2.5%. 6ste se paga s6lo cuando no
se lega a contar con utilidades o bien, cuando el 30% aplicado sobre la utilidad
resultante es inferior al monto equivalente al 2.5% aplicado sobre las ventas netas.
3                     Esto significa que en caso de no contarse con utilidades o si esta es demasiado baja
en relaci6n a las ventas netas, el impuesto necesario que debe pagarse es el de
2.5% sabre las ventas netas, coma mfinimo.
Asimismo, para el caso de la Comercializaci6n de minerales, esta misma Ley
establece el pago de todos los impuestos establecidos en la Ley 843 de 1986, con
excepci6n del impuesto a Ia Renta Presunta de Empresas y el Impuesto a Ins Tran-
sacciones, en el caso de comercializaci6n de minerales o metales en el mercado
interno.
Dentro de este nuevo sistema, vigente a partir de octubre de 1992, se estipula que
toda empresa nueva conformada a partir de esa fecha deberS ingresar al regimen
de utilidades de 30%. con el impuesto complementario del 2.5%. En cuanto a las
empresas ya existentes, estas pueden optar por el pago de regalias o bien por el im-
puesto sobre la utilidad. De esta manera el C6digo preve la gradual desaparici6n de
la 'regalfa7 hasta 1999, lo que surge de la necesidad de uniformizar la imposici6n
en un solo impuesto, y para  forzar" a que las empresas mineras cuenten y
actualicen sus estados contables.
3                    Tales disposiciones tributarias simplifican el sistema impositivo para el sector y
Art,. I IB. 9 dl C6digo de Minwb6 1991.
Lo rgoNga conuat on uns paicipacidn do In rggiones prosetin_ dd wIdo y subsuslo on *I producto dotiaa. v * oients a finndciar obra de dsowolo
* favor de Is rrismnn of uiatom de dce:o to ban on Is utldad pr_maw b cudl se define como I dforana.t lo eooiizacin alkid menve 1 co to pr nuto
VIOs goso do roaftmcifn me Cdtim crno un prcmntajm do Is codrzmdon ofiil.



1                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
pretenden incentivar de esta manera la inversi6n y reinversi6n extranjera.
Otras modificaciones de esta Ley al C6digo Minero anterior se refieren a:(a) La
reorganizaci6n y modernizaci6n del Servicio Nacional de Catastro Minero; (b) El
I                    establecimiento de lineas maestras para la comercializaci6n de minerales para que
esta se efectije con mis agilidad; (c) La restricci6n a las personas individuales o
colectivas extranjeras para la adquisicidn de concesiones mineras dentro de los 50
km de las fronteras internacionales; ( (d) El reconocimiento dentro de la divisi6n de
la industria minera del pais a la mineria cooperativizada; (e) La autorizaci6n a
COMIBOL a suscribir contratos de arrendamiento, "joint ventures' y otros, asf como
a conformar sociedades de economra mixta; (f) La legislaci6n acerca de los
contratos de riesgo compartido e incorporaci6n de disposiciones sobre yacimientos
de oro, piedras preciosas, semipreciosas y similares; (g) La ratificaci6n de la facultad
de los productores de oro para exportar su producci6n o venderla al Bancc Cewrrai,
a firmas comercializadoras o a fundidoras legalmente autorizadas, y la *acultad de
cualquier persona para poseer oro fisico sin ninguna restricci6n legai.
2.3   La Reforma Tributaria
La Reforma Tributaria establecida en 1986 a traves de la Ley 843 es el instrumento legal
de aplicaci6n obligatoria en los niveles nacional, departamental y local; todos los instrumen-
3             tos a definirse posteriorrnente a esta Reforma tendran que situarse dentro del marco de
esta Ley.
Esta Ley establece el ordenamiento de los impuestos. que en definitiva son los que se
seniala en el resumen que se consigna a continuaci6n:
(a) Impuesto al valor agregado (IVA), aplicable a las ventas de bienes muebles,
contratos de abras de prestacion de servicios. y a las importaciones definitivas.
Dentro de este regimen del IVA se incluye:
Credito fiscal.- Se trata de una deuda en favor del contribuyente, cargada y
reconocida por el Estado. cuya utilizaci6n se limita sin embargo. a deducir los
montos de los impuestos a pagar. Para computar el credito fiscal se toman en
cuenta s6lo las actividades que se vinculan con las operaciones gravadas.
Excenciones.- La Ley sefiala como objeto de excenciones tributarias al IVA: (***)9,
importaciones realizadas por personas y entidades o instituciones que tengan dicho
status de acuerdo a disposiciones vigentes, convenios internacionales (...). y
'Sin embargo se faculta a las personas naturales o juridicas nacionales que poseen concesiones
mineras, a suscribir toda clase de contratos de servicios y de riesgo compartido con personas
juridicas o naturales extranjeras.
Ibtor4mgw nm, o10.



12
mercaderias que introduzcan de bonafide (...)
Notas de cr6dito negociables.- El Draw Back (antes Certificado de Reintegro
Arancelario. CRA). se refiere al reintegro de los impuestos pagados, una vez
realizadas las exportaciones.
Aquf hay que tener en cuenta sin embargo que la solicitud de notas de crddito
negociables por parte del exportador determina que el monto solicitado no puede
ser considerado como credito fiscal pera su compensaci6n, en caso de ventas en
el mercado interno.
(b) R6gimen complementario 0 impuesto IVA
Es el Impuesto sobre el ingreso de las personas, provenientes de la inversi6n de
capital. del trabajo. rentas. C...)
-1
(c) Impuesto a Ia renta presunta de las empresas
Es el Impuesto sobre el patrimonio neto (activo menos pasivo) resultante al cierre
de cada gesti6n anual.
La Ley establece como sujeto de exenci6n:
(a) Actividades no comerciales o industriales propiedad de organizaciones sin
fines de lucro,(...)
(b) Mutuales y sociedades cooperativas de ahorro y prestamo para la
vivienda;
5c) Sociedades cooperativas de servicios publicos.
Asimismo la Ley preve que 'cualquier modificacion posterior que altere las
condiciones que fundamentan la formalizaci6n de la excencion debera ponerse en
conocimiento de la Administraci6n Tributaria".
La Lev establece que se podria conceder la excencion de impuestos sobre
patrimonio, siempre que se refiera a activos no computables, es decir:
- saldos pendientes de pago de accionistas
- saldos acreedores del dueino a socio (excepto que dichos saldos provengan
de operaciones efectuadas con la sociedad en condiciones similares a las
que pudieran pactarse entre partes independientes).
(d) Impuesto a la renta presunta de propietarios de bienes
InmDues  anual a la groDiedad rural.-



13
Excenciones
.1                        (a) Areas clasificadas como incultivables por la reforma agraria
(b) (..), campos deportivos
(c) Granjas y estaciones experimentales de propiedad del Estado y de ONlGs.
(d) Areas calificadas como reserva ecol6gica y las destinadas a la preserva-
ci6n de cuencas hidrogrdificas
(e) Otras tierras de propiedad del Estado
ImDuesto a los inmuebles urbanos.-
Excenciones
- Inmuebles de actividades no comerciales ni industriales propiedad de
asociaciones, fundaciones, o instituciones no lucrativas
(f) Impuesto a Ins transacciones
Este impuesto es aplicable al comercia, industria, profesi6n, oficio, negocio, alquiler
3                    de bienes, obras y servicios o de cualquier actividad lucrativa o no.
(g) Impuesto a los consumos especificos
Se refiere al impuesto sobre la Yenta de bienes muebles, importaciones definitivas
de bienes no necesarios (bebidas alcoh6licas, cigarrillos, perfumeria, joyasl.
2.4   Reglamento sobre Lanzamiento de desechos industriales en cuerpos de agua
Varias instituciones han participado en el estudio que ha desembocado en la
preparaci6n de las Normas de Diseho para la Elaboraci6n de este Reglamento
aprobado por el Ministerio de Urbanismo y Vivienda en 1990. De acuerdo al mismo,
todas las industrias existentes o por establecerse en el pats. estan en la obligaci6n
de cefiirse estrictamente a lo estipulado. quedando las entidades competentes
(P.efecturas, Alcaldias y Municipios) en su correspandiente jurisdicci6n. a cargo de
exigir el cumplimiento de este Reglamento, antes de otorgar o revalidar las licencias
y operacidn y funcionamiento.
El Reglamento incluye parametros maximos admisibles para la descarga en cuerpos
de agua, descargas en los cuerpos superficiales, descarga al sistema de alcantarilla-
do sanitario, descarga al sistema de alcantarillado pluvial y disposiciones comple-
mentarias. Tambien se refiere al procedimiento administrativo para la autorizaci6n
para el lanzamiento de residuos industriales, y el funcionamiento de las instalacio-



14
nes.
2.5   Los Bienes Nacionales en Ia Constituci6n Polftica del Estado
De acuerdo al Art.136 de la CPE. los bienes nacionales son de dominio originario del
Estado. 'El suelo, y el subsuelo con todas sus riquezas naturales, las aguas
lacustres, fluviales y medicinales ast como los elementos y fuerzas ffsicas
susceptibles de aprovechamiento". Sin embargo, la CPE distingue el dominio
originario, del domirnio titil. y se deja a las disposiciones de la ley regular los casos
y las formas en que el Estado puede ejercer este uiltimo dominio.
En la dItima parte de este mismo articulo se dice que la ley establecera las
condiciones de ese dominio as( como las de su concesi6n y adjudicaci6n a
particulares.
Debe seuialarse que la ley puede dar en calidad de bienes de dominio originario, a
|                  bienes no mencionados en la Constituci6n. El Estado asimismo, conserva la facultad
de reservarse el dominio y la gesti6n exclusiva de bienes y servicios.l'
En otras palabras. se establece que los recursos naturales y fuerzas ffsicas
susceptibles de aprovechamiento econ6mico pueden ser concedidos a sociedades
mixtas de operaci6n conjunta o a personas privadas, conforme a ley, regulando la
forma en que el Estado puede administrar directamente esos bienes.
n    3.  MARCO POLITICO
La consolidaci6n de la economia de mercado esta virtualmente asegurada, quien quiera que
triunfe en las elecciones polifticas a realizarse en abril de 1993. Esto significa que las pro-
puestas de profundizar las reformas econ6micas, incorporadas en la Estrategia Nacional de
Desarrollo no variaran sustancialmente.
Dentro del contexto politico inmediato, y al margen de la viabilidad tecnica de la adopcion
de instrumentos basados en el mercado para la gesti6n ambiental, habra que considerar la
posibilidad de un impacto de los instrumentos a adoptar, en la estabilidad econ6mica
general, la inflaci6n, los efectos sobre la competitividad y las incidencias sociales, por
efecto de transferir los impuestos creados a los precios de los productos penalizados.
Por otra parte, habra que tener sumo cuidado en lo que respecta a los instrumentos que
recaen sobre la poblaci6n. Este podrta ser el caso del establecimiento de cargos par uso y
que podrian aplicarse a las tarifas de los servicios de agua y alcantarillado, para posibilitar
el tratamiento de las aguas servidas. El impacto en el nivel de ingresos serla considerable
si se considera la dureza de las poifticas de ajuste y de reorganizaci6n de la mineria, que
han tenido como efecto colateral, el cierre de minas y la "relocalizaci6n" de la poblaci6n
empleada en aquellas, en actividades de sobrevivencia del sector informal.
|Esvatai Haand de Dnomo. Op.CLPqo.42



15
En fin, la falta de capacidad de pago de establecimientos productivos de orden pequeCo y
mediano, lo mismo que del resto de la industria y minerfa, en una coyuntura econ6mica en
la que se pretende reactivar la actividad econ6mica, podrfa anular la viabilidad poiftica de
una propuesta de establecimiento de instrumentos econ6micos orientados a complementar
la regulacion del control ambiental.
Por todo ello, una propuesta de adopci6n de instrumentos econ6micos debera ser suieto
de evaluaci6n.
4. LAS POLITICAS AMBIENTALES
4.1 EL NIVEL NACIONAL
Las poifticas ambientales globales en curso de elaboraci6n seiialan como parte de los
instrumentos de politica a aplicar, los instrumentos regulatorios asi como instrumentos
econ6micos en la perspectiva de que la empresa privada adeccie por esta vfa, sus procesos
y tecnologfas, a modalidades de uso del medio ambiente mis arm6nicas con el desarrollo
sostenible.
La Ley General del Medio Ambiente promulgada en abril de 1992, establece en su Cap.ll,
Titulo IX, el establecimiento de 'mecanismos de fomento, de incentivo para todas aquellas
actividades p6blicas y/o privadas de protecci6n industrial, agropecuaria, minera, forestal
y de otra indole, que incorporen tecnologia y procescs orientados a lograr la proteccion del
medio ambiente y el desarrollo sostenible". Consecuente con esta estipulaci6n, la SENMA
esti abordando la reglamentaci6n de la Ley, incorporando en todos las aspectas que se
considere pertinentes, regulaciones que serdn complementadas con incentivos econ6micos
1            orientados a inducir cambios en las practicas del sector productivo, particularmente
privadao.
4.2 EL NIVEL DEPARTAMENTAL
Las polifticas departamentales en relaci6n con el medio ambiente estan en ciertos casos ya
conclurdas, otras en curso de formulaci6n y otras auin no han comenzado. En el primer
caso, en el departamento de La Paz, se seiiala 'la importancia de la protecci6n del medio
ambiente, como condici6n para mejorar la calidad de vida de la poblaci6n y garantizar la
sustentabilidad en el aprovechamiento de los recursos naturales sobre los que se basa el
desarrollo"'. Estas polifticas cuentan con el respaldo de diversas instituciones que han
participado en su elaboraci6n. Sin embargo, no se ha previsto recurrir a instrumentos
econ6micos para redireccionar la actividad productiva.
4.3 EL NIVEL LOCAL
Las responsabilidades de las alcaldias municipales en relaci6n con el tema, estan seinaladas
CORPORACION OEPARTAUJENTAL DE LA PAZ.- Erategia de D.wroo lpw eI Dagatmno. 1992



16
en la Ley OrgSnica de Municipalidades que seihala las siguientes tareas, dentro de las cuales
I            se enmarca el accionar municipal dentro de todo el territorio nacional:
- Preservar y mantener el saneamiento ambiental asr como resguardar el ecosistema
11                  de su jurisdicci6n territorial.
- Atencion del aseo urbano y servicio organizado de recojo de basuras;
- Control de calidad e higiene de aire, agua y productos alimenticios;
- Preservaci6n del medio ambiente, control de la contaminaci6n;
- Autorizaci6n y control de la explotaci6n de su patrimonio;
Ahora bien, en repetidas ocasiones se ha senialado la necesidad de adecuar esta Ley
Orginica a la Ley General del Medio Ambiente, tarea que atin no ha sido emprendida por
el Legislativo. Esta adecuaci6n le habrfa permitido incluir algunas acciones mOs especificas
en materia de control de la contaminaci6n producida por la industria y Oa mineria dentro del
area de su jurisdicci6n.
I
I
I



17
*       SEGUNDA PARTE:  IDENTIFICACION DE INSTRUMENTOS ECONOMICOS VIGENTES
El enfoque econ6mico para la gesti6n ambiental es un tema nuevo, por lo que en Bolivia no se
aplica estos instrumentos de forma deliberada. Se encuentran algunos que si bien no estan
orientados en esta direcci6n, afectan a los recursos y el medio ambiente. En esta parte se hara una
revisi6n de tales instrumentos, que actujan como incentivos o como desincentivos, de forma
directa o indirecta en la gesti6n ambiental.
1. Descripci6n de incentivos y desincentivos de orden general
No puede dejar de senalarse la existencia en Bolivia al igual que en el resto de paises, de
incentivos 'implicitos que orientan el comportamiento hacia el derroche y el aprovecha-
miento inadecuado de Irs recursos naturales. Entre estos se cita:
(a) La incertidumbre respecto a los derechos de propiedad. Los recursos naturales
aire. agua, suelo y subsuelo son de dominio originario del Estado. Esto determina
que ninguin particular asuma la responsabilidad de su uso. lo que ocasiona una
explotaci6n y derroche descontrolados, ya que el Estado no cuenta con instrumen-
tos de control sobre el uso de estos recursos.
(b) Ausencia de precios de los recursos naturales. El agua, la tierra y el aire que
prestan un servicio ambiental, y en algunos casos de superior calidad en relaci6n
con otros parses del mundo, no tienen precio. Esto estimula a los usuarios a hacer
17                  un uso desmedido de tales recursos.
(ci Los subvenciones implicitas que en lo fundamental se refieren a las tarifas
subvencionadas por el uso de recursos naturales, que no tienen un mercado explici-
to. El agua de consumo, de riego, de uso industrial constituyen el caso mais
ilustrativo.
(d) Extemalidades no intemalizadas. Los costos de la degradaci6n ambiental
producidos por el sector productivo son socializados. y las empresas industriales y
mineras no estan habituadas a internalizar estos costos.
Ademias de estos instrumentos 'implicitos' destaca un incentivo expresado en la Ley de
Inversiones que en su art.5o seinala que "...no existen restricciones para para la remisi6n
j             al exterior de dividendos, intereses y regalias por transferencia de tecnologia o otros
conceptos mercantiles". Ciertamente, Ia libertad en cuanto a movilidad de recursos, implica
la urgencia de un pats como Bolivia de atraer capitales extranjeros o nacionales, sin poner
cuidado en la tecnologra o la modalidad que vaya a asumir la explotacion de determinados
recursos. Este es, visto de esta manera, un incentivo para acelerar las tasas de extracci6n
de recursos naturales no renovables, sin la correspondiente contrapartida para que las
divisas provenientes de la exportaci6n contribuyan al desarrollo sostenible de las
localidadeslregiones de las cuales dichos recursos provienen.
I4



18
2.    INSTRUMENTOS VIGENTES A NIVEL NACIONAL
2.1   Instrumentos vigentes en In Industria
(a) Incentivos
(a) El sector industrial acepta como incentivo valido en materia crediticia, la
extensi6n de olazos v el mantenimiento de la oaridad cambiarie en materia de
comercio exterior.
(b) Otro incentivo vigente es la deoreciacidn acelerada de equipos y maquinaria. Tal
incentivo permitido por el Decreto 21060 permite la depreciac;6n en base a diferen-
tes factores de depreciaci6n, a aplicarse de acuerdo al tipo de maquinaria empleada.
Asi, la maquinaria tiene una vida u3til entre cinco y 10 aiios, dependiendo de las
caracteristicas.
Sin embargo, la depreciaci6n acelerada mas que orientar a la actividad minera hacia
procesos tecnol6gicamente menas perversos, implic6 un sacrificio fiscal considera-
ble, pues se trata en la realidad de un prestamo sin intereses del gobierno a la firma
beneficiada. Si bien es cierto que la depreciaci6n acelerada pospone s6lo en el
tiempo el pago de impuestos. no hay que olvidar que el precio del dinero cambia,
haciendo este incentivo importante,'2 desde el punto de vista de una perdida de
ingresos por concepto de pago de impuestos para el gobierno.
(c) El Regimen Antidumping dispone de un marco general recientemente aprobado
1                      por el D.S. 23308, el mismo que incorpora restricciones oara la exalotaci6n v
exoortaci6n de aroductos frSgiles tales como las maderas y cueros. Este es un
incentivo para orientar a un mejor aprovechamiento de los recursos naturales. que
con estrmulos complementarios podrian ser insumos para la industria.
(d) Se sefiala como incentivo, la existencia de algunas Irneas de credito oreferencia-
es provenientes de la subasta de recursos financieros del Banco Central y
destinadas a promover la actividad productiva ya sea en la fase de inversidn o de
implementaci6n del proyecto; Sin embargo tales fuentes de financiamiento no
cumplen con su prop6sito, dado que llegan a encarecerse en la intermediaci6n
realizada por las ICIs por lo que las tasas de los mismos son altas, tomandose asf
poco atractivas y equiparables a las tasas corrientes de mercadoa3.
(bi Decincentivos
'VIAOAND Mor Eugmus 'Aniu de b Lry de bnvvusonas de 1971- En La lndustriw Prob.mam y Pwmpoctivo Publcidn del 111S. 19 90
El B nco Central otro on subata rcuaxm finanowas. pmvwi ntelo de coesniom bolstoraos V oergarmmos de finanaunmnto une atr.s. Los hntituciones
de Crudito pwr la bnvion Ifluca Conwrdcl an gnI omirta tease. Las tiasa dufnitnwm po_ lot diifernt. smctoruson detwnados por Is demnda de ote
swtne finunciwo Y lu oforta de dineon oxpamada an tal subsa. Sin wrewgo an to rooldud. I1 ICts captan mugos de toma bwsum p_a agna lam audbe 
a Ws actors Producti-om, a -too" comordaleo



19
(a) El imDuesto sobre la Renta Presunta de las Emgresas, establecido por la
Reforma Tributaria, pese a ser muy baja (3%) constituye un decintentivo para los
industriales. pues desalienta la realizaci6n de grandes inversiones que acrecienten
el patrimonio, y por tanto su base imponible. Este es un decincentivo para la recon-
versidn y modernizaci6n tecnol6gica.
(b) El Regimen Tributario no es favorable para el sector industrial. pues no se
encuentra ning(in incentivo para su desarrollo que, - a diferencia del sector minero-
esta obligado a pagar todos los impuestos contemplados en la Ley 843, es decir:
Impuesto al Valor Agregado, R6gimen Complementario al IVA, Impuesto a la Renta
Presunta de las Empresas, Renta Presunta de Propietarios de Bienes. Impuesto a la
regularizaci6n impositiva, e Impuesto a las transacciones.
2.2 Instrumentos vigentes en la minena
(a) Incentivos
(a) Un incentivo claramente definido es la deoreciaciOn de eguipo en cinco anos, lo
que podrfa estirnular la importaci6n de tecnologras de control ambiental.
Sin embargo, lo mismo que en el caso anterior, inclusive pasando tal como
"incentivo econ6mico', este instrumento no representa mas que un drenaje para el
presupuesto del gobiemo. Se trata pues. de un tipo de incentivo ineficiente e
inefectivo, en cuanto aquel no hace provechosa la reducci6n o tratamiento de
desechos, sin6 que simplemente subsidia a los productores y consumidores de esas
industrias.
(b) Dentro del tratamiento de impuesto sobre utilidades de las actividades mineras,
el D.S. 23059 de febrerol92 contempla un incentivo para aquellas empresas que
tengan utilidades o lleven a cabo una reinversi6n de las mismas. Esta disposici6n se
refiere a la excenci6n del pago de impuesto sobre utilidades en los casos de rein-
versi6n de las mismas, y podria aplicarse a la reinversi6n en tecnologias para el con-
trol ambiental. Esta disposici6n entrarra en vigencia a partir del pr6ximo anio.
(b) Decincentivos
(a) Se sefiala como decincetivo -visto desde la 6ptica del desarrollo sostenible - el
regirnen de DRAWBACK y en CENOCREN"4. En ambos casos se trata de promover
las exportaciones, indistintamente de si estas salen como materia prima o como
productos con valor agregado. Hay que recardar que la explotaci6n de minerales en
el todo el territorio utiliza insumos adquiridos en el exterior o en el mercado local y
3                    es por ello, beneficiaria de los regimenes de Drawback y el Cenocren.
(b) En la misma direcci6n se orientan el tratamiento preferente en los fletes de
El OAAW3ACK ceito on unn devalucn de a,inelo pogndm on .* momento de iportw inmmos o netrio pi m. d_lmn.da. a Is exported6n. El
CENOCREN *n cwmbio. se nfife a la d.vcluidn de Ion faipus  indircts OVA) apcdom on Is cwwa de bings y sonn.cion *I niedo aitwno.



20
ferrocarril para todo tipo de productos de exportacion, Ineas de cr6dito con ter-
minos atractivos de plazo para pre post embarque, y tratamientos preferenciales de
diferimiento de aranceles entre otros, por acuErdos de integraci6n suscritos por
nuestro pars.
(c) Se puede serhalar como decincentivo para el control ambiental de la actividad
minera, la disposici6n de restituir y entregar el agua en la misma calidad en la que
fue encontrada (D.S. 23314 de 21 de julio de 1992), lo que es a todas luces, una
disposici6n extrema que decincentiva todo intento de establecer alg(in nivel de con-
trol ambiental.
(d) Podrra considerarse como incentivo indirecto en este sector, la oferta de
informaci6n relativa a disponibilidad de yacimientos mineros dentrc del territorio. De
acuerdo a la Ley de Actualizaci6n del C6digo de Mineria se establece un sistema de
prospecci6n regional, actualizaci6n y divulgaci6n de informaci6n sobre recursos
mineros, y el Servicio Thcnico y de Catastro Minero capaz de implementar un siste-
ma modemo para otorgar concesiones. Tales medidas podrian inducir una extracci6n
desmedida de minerales y su inevitable agotamiento, si no se establece como
complemento, la reinversi6n de los beneficios que genera tal extracci6n, en
beneficio de las localidades/regiones, en actividades que permitan a las mismas,
sobrevivir al agotamiento de los recursos de los que sobrevive.
(f) Tal incentivo para el agotamiento se agrava porque el costo de estas actividades
j                   de prospecci6n, levantamiento y divulgaci6n de informaci6n sera asumido por el
estado boliviano, y no por los capitales que invertirain en tales actividades. Esto
tiende - en ausencia de las medidas complementarias sefialadas- a reducir mas auin,
1l                 el beneficio de estas actividades, en relaci6n al costo ecol6gico que producen.
(g) Se puede sefialar tambidn en el mismo sentido, coma incentivo para acelerar la
explotaci6n de recursos naturales no renovables, el levantamiento de las Reservas
Fiscales (D.S 21298 y 22615). y su incorporaci6n al libre ejercicio de la actividad
minera, sin restricci6n alguna.
(h) La liberalizaci6n del Comercio del Oro es otra medida que al igual que las dos
anteriores, orienta la actividad a una explotaci6n desmedida, sin un colateral de
promoveractividades sostenibles financiadas con los recursos generados. En efecto,
de acuerdo a tal medida se eliminan todas las restricciones a la comercializaci6n del
oro, existiendo libertad de exportar o introducir oro al pars.
En general, y para convertir estas ultimas medidas de negativas a positivas para el
medio ambiente, debiera disefiarse y aplicarse instrumentos econ6micos de fomento
de actividades industriales financiadas con recursos generados por la mineria, que
debieran contribuir al crecimiento econ6mico y mejoramiento de la calidad de vida
en las regiones de donde provienen los recursos mineros.
3. INSTRUMENTOS VIGENTES EN EL NIVEL DEPARTAMENTAL



21
Se seliala como incentivo - debil pero incentivo al fin - dentro de este campo, el
tratamiento preferencial para las industrias que se establezcan en los territorios de
Oruro y Potosf (Ley No.876 y 877 de 1986 respectivamente1, las cuales son
incentivadas con la exenci6n de impuestos durante un perrodo de cinco anfos.
Asa. en el caso de industrias fabriles o manufactureras que se establezcan en Oruro
con capital superior a los $us 250 mil o su equivalente en moneda nacional se libe-
rara del pago de impuestos nacionales. deDartamentales. municioales v universita-
rios con excepci6n de la renta personal. por el lapso de 5 anios. Para las industrias
que se instalen en Potosi, las inversiones hechas por las empresas seran deducibles
de impuestos a la renta de emwresas v a la renta total de rersonas, con la sola
excepci6n de las regallas mineras.
4. INSTRUMENTOS VIGENTES EN EL NIVEL LOCAL
4.1 Incentivos
(a) Lus uinicos incentivos previstos por el sistema tributario municipal se refieren a
descuentos a los pagos de tributos efectuados con anterioridad a las fechas de
pago. Los descuentos considerados en esta categoria, son:
- Descuento del 8% por el pago de la patente de funcionamiento'5 del
semestre dentro de los primeros 45 dfas de cara semestre y/o a partir de la
fecha de su promulgaci6n;
- Del 20% del pago total de la patente anual de funcionamiento dentro de
los primeros 45 dias de la gesti6n ylo a partir de la fecha de su promulga-
ci6n;
! gual tratamiento tienen las otras patentes fijas anuales que se paguen en
los terminos establecidos en los numerales 1) y 2)
(b) La exenci6n en el pago de tributos, cuando es establecida por Ley, de acuerdo
a lo previsto. Au n cuando la excenci6n fuera concedida en funci6n de determinadas
condiciones de hecho, puede ser derogada o modificada por Ley posterior. excepto
cuando tiene plazo de duraci6n definido.
|            4.2 Decincentivos
No se ha establecido ningin instrumento en la perspectiva de desalentar por medio
de mecanismos de mercado, las practicas de contaminaci6n de la industria local y
las actividades extractivas dentro del radio urbano.
La palante de funcianaionto _a un tibito a^-o hacho g.naodor e  i'p a es I iutorizaci&  a pfro anudl a *vmntual qua s coneWd  pwi  el
funoonwnito de Is hdmabb y o ou mcividudi



22
Los cinicos instrumentos existentes se refieren a regulaciones de planificaci6n
I                   urbana, para autorizar la instalci6n y funcionamiento de todo tipo de establecimien-
tos productivos en el area urbana.
I
l
I
I
I
I
i



23
TERCERA PARTE:  INSTRUMENTOS BASADOS EN EL MERCADO APLICABLES A LA GESTION
AMBIENTAL BOLIVIANA
1.    Consideraciones pera Ia selecci6n de instrumentos econ6micos de gesti6n amblentl
Antes de sefialar los instrumentos econ6micos que tienen posibilidad de aplicaci6n en
nuestro pars, es necesario hacer unas consideraciones generales, validas tanto para la
Industria y Mineria. Luego tales consideraciones serSn especfficas para cada uno de estos
sectores.
(a)   Dada la reticencia del sector productivo al incremento de cargos financieros de todo
tipo, es imprescindible contar con su consenso. para lo cual habrn que convencerlos
de que las recaudaciones tendran un destino predeterminado. El tratamiento
colectivo de las aguas, el financiamiento de proyectos orientados al mejoramiento
del medio ambiente entre otros que beneficien al propio sector, podrran lograr aquel
prop6sito.
(b)   La instituci6n a hacerse cargo de la planificaci6n, recaudaci6n y administraci6n de
estos fondos, es clave tambidn en la concertaci6n con el sector privado, pues 6sta
tiene que ofrecer garantla de solvencia moral. Por ello, y en lo posible, debera
contarse con organismos del propio sector, tales como Cimaras, Asociaciones, que
se hagan cargo del autocontrol. FONAMA se perfila con grandes ventajas para
cumplir estas funciones.
Industria
(a)   En primer lugar, habrfi que considerar la diferencia de tamaijo de los estableci-
mientos industriales, lo cual debera dar lugar a un tratamiento diferenciado en la
gesti6n ambiental.
Esto, respecto a la pequehla y mediana industria, que hacen alrededor del 70% de
la industria boliviana, y en particular aquellas orientadas al mercado interno y con
bajo nivel tecnol6gico; habra que considerar el caso de aquelios establecimientos
productivos que si bien generan empleo, utilizan tecnologias locales y materia prima
local16, si se descuenta la remuneraci6n del propio empresario, el excedente bruto
de explotaci6n se reduciria al minimo en ia mayoria de los casos. Estas estableci-
mientos productivos pertenecen al llamado sector informal y logran sobrevivir y
hacer frente a la competencia externa s6lo gracias a mantenerse fuera de las nor-
mas legales. Es altamente improbable que este tipo de establecimientos encarezca
sus costos para evitar la contaminaci6n y para cumplir con las regulaciones e
instrumentos econ6micos que no sean adecuados para estos casos.
Est. ipO de establscimntos indusbitnm - mmb canpatbM con ml Dndlo Sos,t.Ah po lo qua habrqn apin *n m nodalidat d treno
_op.ealnwnt prfwmncual.



24
Por ello, y por ser considerable la contaminaci6n generada por una parte de este tipo
de actividades, habra que imaginar e incorporar en la Estrategia de Gesti6n
Ambiental a diseliar, algunos instrumentos econ6micos a fin de que se adecuen a
3                    las normas a establecerse, sin riesgo de perecer en tal esfuerzo.
(b)   Se descarta definitivamente como instrumentos potenciales para el desarrollo
industrial, las tasas de interes diferenciales o las exenciones arancelarias, no
solamente porque entrarfan en contradicci6n con el modelo econ6mico vigente, sino
tambien porque en el pasado tuvieron un uso prebendal de diffcil control.
(c)   En general se advierte dentro del sector industrial, resistencia a que se aplique un
mayor numero de impuestos, debiendo pensarse en instrumentos diferentes a estos,
que incluyan en la actividad productiva industrial, la conservaci6n ambiental.
Mineria
(a)   El tratamiento diferenciado seguTn el tama*lo de las empresas mineras es tambien
vMlido para este sector, a lo que puede sumarse el tratamiento diferente seguin la
procedencia de capitales. Puede suponerse en general, que la minerra grande y
mediana podria asumir el compromiso de la transferencia tecnol6gica para adecuar-
se a las normas ambientales a establecerse; sin embargo ello dependera en gran
medida del tipo de incentivos que se ofrezca en cada caso particular.
Asi, el prop6sito de inducir estos cambios a traves de una mayor disponibilidad de
cr6ditos financierosylo de beneficios de financiamiento, podria resultar ineficaz para
la mineria grande y parte de la mediana que trabajan con capitales extranjeros. toda
vez que existen en el mercado internacional fuentes de financiamiento en condi-
ciones mucho mrs ventajosas que las que se podrian implementar dentro del pafs.
En cambio este instrumento podria ser eficaz para la minerfa mediana, pequefla,
cooperativas en fin, que funcionan con capitales nacionales.
Por otro lado, aunque la minerna pequefia y cooperativas son contaminantes por sus
condiciones precarias, r.o estarfan en condiciones tecnicas ni en capacidad finan-
ciera para realizar inversiones para el tratamiento de sus desechos, sin el riesgo de
descapitalizarse. Una relaci6n beneficio/costo, mostraria en gran paite de estos
casos, que podria resultar mas conveniente cerrar algunas de estas actividades a
cambio de una compensaci6n financiera. Para este caso podrla adoptarse una
variaci6n de los permisos negociables. Esto se retomarg mas adelante.
Ib!   No habra que olvidar que la NPE orienta sus esfuerzos hacia la atracci6n de
inversi6n extranjera. En este sentido. habra que considerar que la llegada de capi-
tales extranjeros y las condiciones en las que estos ingresen al pafs, dependeran de
la percepci6n sobre el riesgo cambiario, el riesgo de transferibilidad, convertibilidad,
y el riesgo tributario. En otras palabras, si se disenia e implementa una Estrategia de
Gesti6n Ambiental con instrumentos regulatorios y econ6micos, esta tendrE que
considerar que paquetes muy recargados con cargos financieros, no seran cohe-
rentes con una poiftica de atracci6n de capitales extranjeros y promoci6n de la



25
inversi6n nacional. En todo caso, el establecimiento de reglas de juego claras y
estables tendra que definirse en el plazo mas breve posible, a fin de que dstas no
interrumpan procesos de decisi6n de inversiones.
2.    Adaptaciones a partir de los instrumentos conternplados en las leyes vigentes
Dentro del marco de la Ley de Reforma Tributaria y del resto de legislaci6n vigente
es posible adaptar algunos instrumentos, previa aprobaci6n del Ministerio de Finan-
zas.
(a)   Si se analiza la Ley en lo que se refiere al sujeto de excenci6n del 00no del imDuestO
sobre renta oresunta de las emoresas, habrfa la posibilidad de introducir, via las
instancias correspondientes. una propuesta de excenci6n de impuestos al
patrimonio, orientados a fines determinados. Se podrfa seiialar algunos activos
adquiridos como activos no computables que podrian incorporarse dentro de la
excenci6n de impuestos sobre patrimonio. En estos activos no computables podria
inclufrse  equipos y tecnologla importados para fines de control ambiental,
claramente especificados por la SENMA.
(b)   Respecto a los impuestos sobre transacciones. se podr,a estimular el traslado de
establecimientos industriales, fundicionesy otros al.Lamente contaminantes, a traves
de la exoneracidn del oaco del imouesto a las transacciones, en caso de trasladarse
aquellas a sitios previamente definidos, y donde el impacto ambiental sea relativa-
mente menor. El caso se aplicarla a establecimientos industriales que compran terre-
nos en zonas industriales (o parques industriales en caso de existir), y venden las
instalaciones causantes de molestias a la poblaci6n aledania.
(c)   En caso de considerarse eficaz el instrumento de la deoreciaci6n acelerada. se
podria ampliar la lista de equipos destinados al control de desechos - con caracte-
r.sticas especificadas por la SENMA -, para aplicarles en la medida de lo posible, las
tasas mas elevadas de depreciaci6n.
(d)   Dentro de la linea del IVA se podria incentivar la inversi6n en equipos, reconociendo
a las empresas, el credito fiscal.
(e)   En la adopcion de cualquier instrumento econ6mico hay que considerar el tiempo
de recuperaci6n de la invers.6n ylo el tiempo previsto para el funcionamiento de la
nueva tecnologfa, a fin de que los cargos a establecer no amenacen con descapitali-
3                   zar a las actividades productivas. A prop6sito de esto, se podria considerar la suge-
rencia de la Camara Nacional de lndustrias de estimular la incorporaci6n de
tecnologias compatibles con la protecci6n ambiental, a traves de un sistema de
diferimiento de imouestos internos a los que actualmente esta suieta la industria.
principalmente en relaci6n al IRPE, por un plazo de aproximadarnente 4 afnos,
periodo que consideran como el mas adecuado para que el industrial pueda hacer
rentable su maquinaria e inversi6n, pudiendo recien hacer frente a las exigencias del
bq



26
merrado y por ende a las cargas tributarias."
If)    Dentro del marco del D.S. 21060, se podrfa ampliar la lista de equipos destinados
a evitar la contaminacidn - de acuerdo a caracteristicas especificadas por la SENMA
I                      - aplicando en lo posible, las tasas vigentes de depreciaci6n mrns aceleradas.
(g)    El nuevo sistema impositivo que se esti implementando desde octubre/92 en la
minerfa, podrra constiturrse en un incentivo, si se logra reconocer las inversiones
permitiendo la deducci6n de costos destinados a la protecci6n ambiental de las
utilidades. disminuyendo asi la base imponible.
(h)    Otros, a incorporar luego de revisi6n minuciosa, en la legislaci6n vigente,
particularmente de la Reforma Tributaria.
1
I
I
'CAMARA MACIONAL DE INOSTRIAS.. ULk rn GmutOgaa B Dmew,olo lndnuiWu Cnmpebtitve Primw Congruso Nactonal de kwduotnla Cochabwniba.
no@viin*rg de 1992.
4D



27
3.   Instrumentos econ6micos: Aplicaciones para la Gestl6n Ambiental
3.1 Instrumentos para el control de Ia contarninaci6n de aguas de superficie
En cada caso, se considerara el contenido muy general" de cada instrumento, las
condiciones para su implementaci6n, algunas sugerencias para una adaptaci6n, y el
procedimiento general para ponerlo en vigencia.
3.1.1 Cargos por efluentes
(a)   Contenido general
Los cargos son cuotas exigidas por una autoridad del gobierno. basadas en la
cantidad y/o calidad de los contaminantes descargados en el ambiente por una
instalaci6n industrial. Se refiere al pago de una cierta cantidad por cada unidad de
contaminacion descargada en la superficie del agua, por tanto supone ciertas
condiciones tecnicas para el control, e institucionales para la recaudaci6n y
administraci6n.
(b)   Posibilided de implementaci6n
Entre las condiciones senaladas se contempla:
13 Mftodos efectivos oar_ realizar evaluaciones rdoidas de la contarinagua.- En las
ciudades mas importantes no se dispone en la actualidad, de personal capacitado
1                  para esta tarea y menos ann, en los departamentos mas atrasados.
c La disoonibilidad de metodos cientlficamente comprobados oars asionar valores
monetarios a los danos causados oor la contaminaci6n.- Esta tarea, indispensable
para lograr la aceptaci6n politica de parte de las actividades mineras e industriales,
no ha sido abordada aun, en parte porque los investigadores de la economra ambien-
tal esta creando y experimentando metodologias de valoraci6n de la contaminaci6n
en Estados Unidos, la mayor parte de las cuales estan apenas comenzando a ser
conocidas en Bolivia.
O Un metodo woerativo oara estimar el nivel de las cuotas.-
La estimaci6n a nivel de tasas especrficas por empresa, sobre la base de evaluacio-
nes peri6dicas del volumen y calidad de los contaminantes podria ser una tarea muy
complicada para las SEDEMAs previstas por la Ley General del Medio Ambiente.
1 La existencia de una instituci6n resoonsable con autoridad legal para hacer
'8Dado que no es prop6sito del presente trabajo hacer una descripci6n del contenido ni
*    prop6sito de cada uno de los instrumentos, ni tampoco de revisar la experiencia de los paises en
su aplicaci6n, se hara en esta parte simplemente una descripci6n muy somera de cada uno de
ellos, lo suficiente como para introducir al tema de posibilidades de implementaci6n y adaptaci6n.



28
cumolir los carpos a los contaminadores. En Bolivia no existe una instituci6n
reconocida, que pueda asumir este control. Las Secretarias Departamenles del
Medio Ambiente que comenzarin a funcionar en los departamentos serran las
indicadas para este prop6sito, sin embargo, estas no dispondran en el corto plazo,
I]                  de los medios efectivos necesarios para asumir esta responsabilidad. FONAMA
podrra ser una posibilidad, pero habria que superar algunas consideraciones sehala-
das mas adelante.
D Los altos costos aue sueonen las actividades de control v fiscalizaci6n en
relaci6n a los presupuestos asignados para estas instituciones departamentales.
Por todas estas razones, y tal como se aplica en parses industrializados, este instrumento
no es aplicable a Bolivia.
I
(c)   Implementaci6n previa adaptaci6n
Dadas las bondades de este incentivo, demostrada por la experiencia de diversos
paises para las industrias para mejorar sus practicas de contaminaci6n, seria conve-
niente efectuar una adaptaci6n de este instrunmento para aplicarlo en:
- aquellos departamentos en los que la contaminaci6n de las aguas de rios
constituyen uno de sus principales problemas ambientales (principalmente
La Paz y Cochabamba). El destino seria el tratamiento colectivo de la
contaminaci6n;
- aquellos rios contaminados con metales pesados. particularmente en
regiones mineras. El destino de los fondos recaudados seria contribuir para
el tratamiento de estas aguas, yfo para indemnizar a campesinos afectados
par la contaminaci6n.
Tal adaptaci6n se justifica por la dificultad inherente a la tarea de evaluaci6n de la
cantidad y concentraci6n de los contaminantes que supone la aplicaci6n de este
instrumento, y que los organismos de control ambiental no estan en capacidad de
asumir. Entonces, la adaptaci6n podria incluir:
1 El establecimiento de un sistema de autoavaluio para empresas mineras
eestablecidas dentro del radio urbano, e industria grande y mediana, a partir
de una tabla de s6lidos en suspensi6n, DBO,DQO, sales solubles, nitr6ge-
no,etc;
O Para que la responsabilidad sea compartida con la ciudad como generado-
ra de contaminaci6n biol6gica, podria estimarse tasas de cargo por emisi6n
|                         de diversos contaminantes a familias, a partir de una base anual calculada
por las municipalidades;
13 Una tabla de coeficientes en la perspectiva de establecer una tasa fija
podria ser establecida para la pequefia industria y mineria, las cuales podrian
catalogarse como tales de acuerdo a rasgos establecidos. Esta tarea tendria



29
que concertarse directamente con los representantes, interlocutores de estas
actividades.
O La tarea de verificaci6n estarla a cargo de las SEDEMAs, y podrla ser
]1                        efectuada a empresas seleccionadas por muestreo. o en su defecto, adju-
dicada a una empresa privada.
O Las sanciones en el caso de que el autoavaluo por parte de la gran y
mediana empresa no corresponda con la calidad declarada, podrian ser las
establecidas por la Ley General del Medio Ambiente.
O Establecimiento de patrones de correcci6n, a fin de que los cargos no
queden invalidados por la inflaci6n.
= Los fondos reunidos por el concepto del cobro de este tipo de cargos.
estarf -i destinados a financiar el tratamiento colectivo de las aguas de los
rros que atraviesan las ciudades principales, en particular La Paz y Cocha-
bamba.
1 El sistema de cargos a establecer debiera. a fin de reducir costos de
control, contar con la participacion activa de la Asociaci6n de Mineros
Medianos, la Camara Nacional de Industria, la Federaci6n Boliviana de
Pequeiha Industria, y/o organismos no gubernamentales que trabajan con
esta rama (Instituto de Asistencia Econ6mica y Tecnica, INASET) entre
otras. La SENMA debiera establecer, en coordinaci6n con estos organismos,
los niveles de los cargos encaminados a financiar medidas colectivas de
control de la contaminaci6n. y luego negociar las mejores modalidades para
la recaudacion y administraci6n de estos recursos.
(d)   Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencim
Dado que estos cargos se refieren en ultima instancia a una variante de los
impuestos su puesta en vigencia requiere de una legislaci6n especial. cuyo proyecto
tendrfa que ser presentado por la Secretarfa Nacional del Medio Ambiente, a la
Comisi6n de Poirtica Econ6mica y Planificaci6n de la H. Camara de Diputados, y por
esta via al Congreso Nacional. Esto supone la elaboracidn de un proyecto de ley
especrfica, que de ahora en adelante se denominara Proyecto de Ley de Instrumen-
tos Economicos aplicados a la Gesti6n Ambiental. (PLIEGA).
3.1.2 Cargos por uso
(a)   Contenido general
Son pagos directos por el costo del tratamiento colectivo de la contaminaci6n
ocasionada por efluentes liquidosy s6lidos que tienen como destino las alcantarillas.
Se aplican particularmente a la recolecci6n y tratamiento de desechos s6lidas
municipales y a la descarga de aguas servidas (industriales y domesticas) en las
redes de alcantarillado, y estan destinados a cubrir el costa del tratarniento colecti-
vo o publico de la contaminaci6n.



30
(b)   Posibilidad de implementaci6n
La aplicaci6n de esta instrumento esta relacionada con la calidad y caracterlsticas
del efluente, por tanto supone el control de la informaci6n a nivel de unidad
generadora de contaminaci6n.
Esto vuelve particularmente diffcil su aplicaci6n en Bolivia, puesto que en materia
de aguas servidas no se dispone adn de informaci6n respecto a la descarga de los
efluentes. Si bien se tiene una estimacion en lo que respecta a las descargas
dom£sticas en las ciudades, en cambio no existe sin6 informaci6n parcial en lo que
hace a las descargas industriales, y la que existe ha sido obtenida muy dificilmente,
dada la retiscencia de los establecimientos industriales a permitir el ingreso de
tecnicos para la evaluaci6n de los desechos.
Por otra parte, en materia de servicio de alcantarillado, existe una tasa que cubre
el costo de mantenimiento de la red, pero no asf de tratamiento de las aguas ser-
vidas. Este costo es inclufdo en la factura de consumo de agua potable. Un alza de
I                  esta factura por concepto de cargo por uso de la red de alcantarilla, podrra incidir
negativamente en el presupuesto de los sectores de ingresos medio y bajos de la
poblaci6n.
Ademfs de ello, surge otra dificultad que se deriva de la habilidad para controlar a
los contaminadores industriales, quienes tienen siempre la posibilidad de descargar
3                   las aguas servidas en forma ilegal. Por el lado de las descargas dom6sticas. Ia
efectividad de los pagos se relacionarban exclusivamente con la capacidad de los
representantes locales elegidos (conceiales) para ofrecer las ventajas del sistema a
la poblaci6n que usa el servicio del alcantarillado.
(c) lmplementacidn previa adaptaci6n
En el caso de considerarse este instrumento en Bolivia, el cargo por uso podria
aplicarse para solventar costos de instalaci6n para el tratamiento de aouas servidas
que van a parar, via alcantarillado, a rios cuyas aguas son utilizadas aguas abajo,
para regar zonas agricolas.
Algunas de las modalidades que asumiria su aplicacion serian las siguientes:
1  Los cargos a los establecimientos industriales que descargan sus
desechos en el sistemas de alcantarillado podrian basarse en el consumo
mensual de agua.
9  Complementando el sistema de cargos al uso industrial del agua, los
cargos a los usuarios dom6sticos del sistema de alcantarillado, podrfan
basarse tambien en el consumo mensual de agua potable. En cambio este
cargo no serfa valido para las zonas relativamente mas deprimidas.
1 Los cargos a las empresas mineras que se abastecen de aguas de rios,



31
aguas arriba de centros urbanos. para descargarla luego en los mismos
efluentes con una carga considerable de metales pesados. podrfa basarse en
el volumen de la producci6n de minerales.
3                         f1 Debe establecerse los cargos por aguas negras a un nivel apropiado antes
de hacer inversiones p(iblicas en el tratamiento de las aguas servidas, a fin
de que las empresas no decidan por sf mismas asumir tratamientos
individuales para no pagar cargos para el tratamiento colectivo.
(d) Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
El sistema podria -luego de ser trabajado a nivel de detalle- ser inclurdo en el
PUEGA. Su implementaci6n estarfa limitada a las ciudades cuyo nivel de contamina-
ci6n de aguas por contribuci6n de aguas servidas industriales y domesticas es
considerable. Tanto la recaudaci6n como la administraci6n de los fondos para fines
de tratamiento, deberi ser por esta raz6n, coordinada con las alcaldias municipales
de estas ciudades.
3.1.3 Permisos negociables
(a)   Contenido general
Se regiere a la fijaci6n del nivel de la calidad ambiental, a partir del cual la autoridad
responsable distribuye permisos de descargo entre las empresas contaminadoras,
los mismos que pueden ser transferidos entre las mismas, en funci6n a sus propios
costos de control de la contaminaci6n.
(b) Posibilidad de implementaci6n
La aplicaci6n de este instrumento supone la capacidad de una instituci6n para
definir los derechos de emisi6n, hacer los ajustes en el valor del derecho en relaci6n
al lugar y al tiempo en que se usan, computar facilmente cualquier cargo en el valor
de los derechos, y tener un sistema de seguimiento eficiente sobre los propietarios
de los derechos.
Todo esto significa una disponibilidad de recursos tecnicos a disposici6n del
organismo a cargo de la gesti6n ambiental, que no estan aun al alcance de la
SENMA y menos auin de las SEDEMAs.
Por otra parte, una condici6n para aplicar con exito este instrumento, se refiere a
tener un robusto mercado desarrollado, dentro del cual el mercado de permisos
puede tener una mobilidad fluida. Sin embargo el mercado de valores en Bolivia es
de creaci6n relativamente reciente y no estd del todo consolidado. Esta podria ser
la principal limitaci6n en la aplicaci6n de este instrumento, de pretender aplicarlo tal
como muestra la experiencia de los parses que lo han adoptado.



32
(cl   Implementaci6n previa adaptaci6n
Aunque este instrumanto no garantiza eficienci en el logro de los prop6sitos de
promover la transformacidn tecnol6gica, en el caso de considerarse este instrumen-
3                   to de particular interks, podria procederse a su adaptaci6n.
Tal adaptaci6n supondria:
13 Su aplicaci6n a permisos de contaminaci6n del agua;
1 Su aplicaci6n exclusiva, dirigida a las industrias grandes y medianas, localizadas
en los departamentos de La Paz, Cochabamba y Santa Cruz, donde se concentra
lo esencial de la industria;
13 Aplicaci6n igualmente aplicable a la mineria grande y mediana, ubicada en los
departamentos de Oruro, Potosi y La Paz.
0 Los establecimientos productivos a los que se aplica tal instrumento, debieran ser
fuentes reconocidas como principales fuentes de contaminaci6n, y sobi e las cuales
se pueda ejercer operativamente el control; en otras palabras, el nuimero de fuentes
debiera ser limitado a la capacidad de control de la instituci6n a cargo.
O Podria establecerse, en concertaci6n con los establecimientos productivos
contemplados dentro de este 'mercado', convenios y contratos con las universi-
a3                 dades de estas ciudades, como responsables del control de estas fuentes;
-1                13 El mercado de valores que se ha establecido podria servir como base para facilitar
las transacciones, en un plazo mediano.
= Mientras tanto, las transacciones serian efectuadas en las SEDEMAS, y el precio
de tales permisos seria establecido en base a f6rmnulas elaboradas por encargo de
la SENMA.
(d)   Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
La estructura de funcionamiento de este sistema debera ser diser ado e incluido en
el PUEGA que deberia ser presentado por la SENMA al Congreso Nacional, a traves
de la Coomisi6n de Planificaci6n y Politica Econ6mica.
3.1.4 Subvenciones
la)   Contenido general
Se refiere a concesiones, prdstamos de bajo interes e incentivos tributarios, que
actuian como incentivos para que los contaminadores cambien sus practicas o en
su lugar, reduzcan los costos de disminuir la contaminaci6n que pagan los
I



33
J                  contaminadores.
(b)   Posibilidad de implementaci6n
Desde la adopci6n de la Nueva Polltica Economica en Bolivia que ha barrido con
todos los tratamientos preferenciales para la actividad econ6mica en general, resulta
diflcil introducir nuevamente este regimen. a no ser que su justificacion sea tan
contundente. que permita una modificaci6n de la decisi6n de interferir nuevamente
con las fuerzas del mercado.
(c) Implementaci6n
Las uinicas posibilidades de aplicacidn de subvenciones son:
0 Subvenciones del gobierno central a los gobiernos departamentales y
locales para disminuir al costo del tratamiento de las aguas superficiales.
Este es un mecanismo que no interferirla con el mercado, a la vez que
contribuirba a paliar los costos de tratamiento de las rios de las principales
ciudades, pues iria a complementar los cargos por efluentes/por uso.
Tales subvenciones. si se aplican indirectamente al control de la contamina-
ci6n de aquas de superficie, podrlan dirigirse a:
- Regiones donde la mineria es parte importante de la base econd-
mica, y por ende, donde el desarrollo regional dependa de esta
actividad, siemore v cyando ella se oriente a crear una base industrial
s6lida y mas diversificada. a partir del aprovechamiento de esos
mismos recursos.
- Regiones donde la posibilidad de un desarrollo industrial que genere
empleo y aproveche sus recursos naturales, creen la necesidad de
apoyar financieramente el costo de tecnologias ambientalmente
limpias.
1 La depreciaci6n acelerada como incentivo tributario, y que de hecho se
halla vigente en el pais. podria ser trabajada a fin de incluir en las listas de
equipos sujetas de las mas altas tasas de depreciaci6n. aquellos orientados
a controlar la contaminaci6n.
1 La excenci6n en el pago de impuestos podria aplicarse a equipos
previamente especificados que ingresen excepcionalmente al pais en calidad
de Activos No Computables. a fin de que no aumenten el patrimonio de las
empresas, evitando de esta manera el pago de mayores impuestos por
concepto de IRPE'9.
1 Habrla que incluir dentro del r6gimen de excenci6n de pago de impuestos
de transacci6n, como incentivo tributario para subvencionar a estableci-
In umu  a Is RAnts P,aUwm de ks Emprnm



34
mientos industriales dispuestos a localizar sus plantas fuera de la concen-
tracion urbana (o en parques industriales su fuese el caso).
13 Dada la incapacidad financiera de la pequefia y mediana industria para
solventar la transformaci6n tecnol6gica, habrba que diseliar incentivos
tributarios dentro del marco de la estructura tributaria vigente. Asi, debiera
permitirse a los gobiernos locales, introducir excenciones en el pago de tri-
butos, para este tipo de empresas, previa consideraci6n del Concejo
Municipal y via Ordenanza Municipal.
- Existe una posibilidad de desarrollar un sistema de subvenciones a partir de
las polfticas ambientales nacionales, y desarrollada desde el Fando Nacional
del Medio Ambiente, para todos los prop6sitos que persigue este instrumen-
to econ6mico, sin que ello afecte el Presupuesto Nacional. El tema ser5
retomado mas adelante.
(d) Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
El procedimiento para poner las propuestas de subvenci6n a consideraci6n del
Senado, requiere:
- Reforma en el r6gimen polifticorinstitucional, para otorgar a los gobiemos
locales facultad para autorizar excenciones de acuerdo a regulaciones de la
SENMA;
- La inclusi6n en el PLEGA. de subvenciones con justificaci6n contundente;
- El fortalecimiento de FONAMA para hacerse cargo de la gesti6n de algunos
I1                      instrumentos econ6micos, a fin de que esta instituci6n, y de acuerdo a las
politicas ambientales nacionales cree su propio sistema de subvenciones,
con recursos donados.
3.1.5 Incentivos para el Cumplimiento
(a)   Contenido general
Se trata de multas por no cumplir con las normas ambientales, para estimular de
esta manera a los que descargan, a que cumplan con las normas y regulaciones
ambientales, pero tambien se trata de premiar a las empresas que adoptan por sr
mismas innovaciones tecnol6gicas que contribuyen al control ambiental del sector.
(b)   Posibilidad de implementaci6n
Ui                  Las multas de acuerdo a la experiencia registrada en otros paises no han sido
efectivas para los prop6sitos que persigue el enfoque econ6mico" de la gesti6n am-
biental. Requieren por otra parte, de un aparato legal que haga frente a las
litigaciones de las empresas. Finalmente en un pafs con una estructura adminis-
trativa centralizada, lenta y frecuentemente corrupta, las demoras ocasionadas por



35
estos litigios de las empresas. junto con la posibilidad de corrupci6n, podrian anular
la efectividad de la medida.
Respecto a los premios de estimulo de todo tipo. estos requieren de la disponibilidad
de recursos financieros. La posibilidad de que tales recursos provengan del estado
central es nula, por lo que la unica posibilidad se limita a FONAMA, siempre y
cuando este organismo sea responsable de la gesti6n de los instrumentos econ6mi-
cos.
(c)   Implementaci6n previa adaptaci6n
a Los incentivos para el cumplimiento debieran centrarse directamente en el cierre
de los establecimientos, y debieran ser rfgidas dentro de plazos muy sensatos, que
consideren el tiempo de adecuaci6n de las instalaciones y operaciones, acorde con
el tamahio y capital del establecimiento productivo.
|  Sin embargo, paralelamente a esta sanci6n, debe establecerse complemen-
tariamente un sistema de concesi6n de servicios de asesoramiento tecnico,
premiosfincentivos, creditos de financiamiento, etc.
13 Una modalidad de este instrumento que podrfa ser uitil para prever impactos
irreversibles en el medio ambiente, son los bonos de eficacia. Estos pagos de
actividades potencialmente contaminantes, hechos al organismo regulador, serfan
devueltos una vez que se verifique que la eficacia ambiental de la actividad es
aceptable. Tal instrumento podrfa orientarse particularmente a la mninerfa grande y
mediana, y siempre y cuando se prevea antes de iniciadas las actividades impactos
potenciales que amenazan con ser irreversibles y de gran dario para la salud de la
poblaci6n del area de influencia.
13 Una variedad de 'premio' a establecer para aquellas actividades que adopten
tecnologras innovadoras y que contribuyan con ello al control ambiental del sector,
podria ser el "Premio a la Contribuci6n a la Conservaci6n Ambiental". Tal premio
podria ser entregado anualmente, a aquella empresa que se haya destacado por sus
innovaciones y control ambiental, y podria consistir en un trofeo entregado por las
autoridades de la SENMA y del sector.
(d) Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
j]                 El sisterna de sanciones deberci ser coherente con la Ley General del Medio
Ambiente. Los premios a establecer y los 'bonos de eficacia' a disefiar. deberan
estar contemplados en el PLIEGA.



36
3.2 Instrumentos para Ia protecci6n de las aguas subterraneas
3.2.1 Subvenciones
(a)   Contenido general
Se refieren a los mismos t6picos desarrollados en el punto 3.1.4, y se orientan a
promover/ayudar a reducir los costos que representa el control de la contaminaci6n
para el sector productivo indust6ial y minero.
(bi   Posibilidad deimplementacibn
Lo mismo que en el caso ya analizado, es poco probable introducir subvenciones
que sean coherentes con la Nueva Poiftica Econ6mica establecida en el pars.
Sin embargo, no debe desecharse la posibilidad de una decisi6n poiftica en este
sentido, mas aun si se recauda a nivel nacional donaciones de paises amigos y
organismos internacionales para este efecto.
(c) Implementaci6n previa adaptacifn
a Subvenciones del gobierno central a las regiones, con recursos captados de fuera
del pals, debieran estar servir de ayuda del gobierno central para que en los niveles
regional y urbano se protejan capas aculferas detectadas como importantes.
13 Aunque las leyes nacionales no se manifiestan en torno a las responsabilidades
de las instituciones en materia de protecci6n de acufferos subterraneos20, debiera
corresponder a las Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollc y las Alcaldias
Municipales esta tarea, con el apoyo financiero del gobierno central en los terminos
descritos mas arriba.
En este caso, las subvenciones podrian dirigirse a:
- Financiar la adquisici6n de tierras en areas donde se detecte aculferos
subterraneos importantes en zonas rurales.
- Ayuda financiera para reemplazar pozos septicos de propietarios de
|                         viviendas en zonas en que se ha detectado aguas subterraneos importantes,
y que no se las ha conectado a las redes de alcantarillado.
Tales subvenciones debieran ir acompanadas por un estricto control por parte de los
organismos encargados de la planificaci6n urbana, en el sentido de establecer
regulaciones de densidad limitadas para este tipo de zonas urbanas.
i  EBo. nantras no * rmfomius, V apru.b. Is LaV de Aguas.



37
(d)   Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
Esta poiftica de subvenciones tendra que ser acordada con las autoridades nacionales a
traves del Ministerio de Planeamiento, y con las autoridades locales en lo que ress.ecta a
las regulaciones de densidad urbana. Deben ser igualmente contempladas en el PLIEGA.
3.2.2 Incentivos para el cumprmiento
Las penalidades civiles o criminales por concepto de no cumplimiento de las normas serian
las mismas que aquellas establecidas por la Ley General del Medio Ambiente. Sin embargo,
paralelamente a las penalidades es importante establecer un sistema de premios, que
estimulen a las empresas por sus iniciativas innovadoras en este campo. Publicaciones para
relievar tales acciones, orientadas a dar prestigio a las empresas por su labor en pro del
medio ambiente, lo mismo que la entrega de premios son ejemplos de premios en el sentido
senialado.
3.3 Instrumentos para el control de la contaminaci6n del dire
La contaminaci6n del aire en Bolivia no es un problema ambiental de gravedad, y es
localizada y puntual. Sin embargo, las tendencias registradas sefialan la conven.encia de
introducir sistematicamente cambios en las practicas productivas, particularmente en los
centros urbanos ubicados a una mayor altitud (La Paz, Oruro y Potost, donde por efectos
de esta altitud las consecuencias serfan mayores), y en los restantes donde el desarrollo
industrial es relativamente mayor (Cochabamba y Santa Cruz). Esto implica, el disenlo de
instrumentos econ6micos que complementen la aplicaci6n de normas y regulaciones para
este campo.
3.3.1  Cargos por emisiones
(a)   Contenido general
El sentido de este instrumento esta desarrollado en el punto 3.1.1. El sistema de
cobro de cargos por emision de fuentes estacionarias tanto en industria como en
minerfa podria resultar interesante en esta perspectiva.
(b)   Posibilidad de implementaci6n
jl                 Los cargos por emisiones no han tenido en ningun pals efectos positivos en
terminos de inducir a los establecimientos productivos a reducir la contaminaci6n.
Sin embargo, sin orientarse a este prop6sito, tal sistema podria resultar viable
5                  siempre y cuando este justifique el uso de los recursos recolectados; una
justificaci6n posible podria ser la utilizaci6n de las recaudaciones, para prestar a las
*                empresas que hacen inversiones para el control de la contaminaci6n.
(c)   Implementaci6n previa adaptaci6n



38
Este instrumento podrfa aplicarse en las siguientes condiciones:
*                         ] Tendria que orientarse a la gran y rnediana industria y minerra. En el caso
de la pequehia y mediana industria, podria establecerse, para aquellas que
I                          contaminan el aire, un cargo fijo.
1 El sistema tendria que estar restringido exclusivamente a la emisi6n de
aquellos contaminantes t6xicos considerados peligrosos para la salud huma-
na.
13 El destino final de las recaudaciones podria ser el de contribuir al financia-
miento de inversiones de las empresas industrialeslmineras que esten
dispuestas a incorporar tecnologias de control ambiental. el control de este
instrumento debiera estar en manos de organismos reconocidos/propios del
sector.
D La ssignaci6n de recursos financieros a partir de estos organismos podria
privilegiar inversiones orientadas a la transformaci6n tecnol6gica y tal
asignacidn debiera ser regulada por la SENMA. de acuerdo a criterios de
mayor contaminaci6n producida.
Id)   Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
El disenio de este instrumerito tendria que estar contemplado en el PUEGA.
Sin embargo, es oportuno sefialar el riesgo de provocar reacciones de rechazo de
los sectores industrial y minero, puesto que este instrumento incide en los costos
de producci6n.
3.3.2 Cargos por uso. por producto y cargos administrativos
Ninguno de estos casos es aplicable a la industria y mineria. Aun cuando el
instrumento mis tentador para controlar la contaminaci6n por productos altamente
t6xicos son los cargos por productos aplicados al mercurio, cianuro, y otros que se
considere en esta categoria, resulta mis efectiva la prohibicion de este tipo de
contaminantes, y/o el control riguroso de los niveles de emisi6n.
j      3.3.3 Creaci6n de mercados
(a)   Aspectos generales
El Comercio de Emisiones aplicado en otros paises no ha tenido efectos considera-
bles en la disminuci6n del nivel de emisiones. Por otra parte, su alto costo de
administraci6n en relaci6n con el reducido mercado de empresas productivas con
capacidad de demanda de este tipo de autorizaciones para emisiones, hacen de este
4



39
instrumento, inefectivo para la industria y mineria en Bolivia.
Sin embargo, en caso de considerar las limitadas posibilidades de aplicaci6n, podrra
seijalarse este instrumento orientado como sigue.
lb)   Posibilidad de implementaci6n
El campo de aplicaci6n de tal instrumento podria ser el de emisiones t6xicas tales
como aquellas que contribuyen a la lluvia acida, - el di6xido de azufre-, particular-
mente proveniente de las planlas de volatilizaci6n. Sin embargo tal instrumento no
esta dirigido al sector publico. pues en este caso, [as plantas son de propiedad
estatal, y tales cargos incrementarfan sus costos. Sin embargo, la idea predominan-
te podrra ser aplicar tal cargo a emisiones t6xicas similares.
Las posibilidades de exito de este instrumentos son grandes si se considera que las
normas de calidad ambiental respecto a aire sera bastante modesta. Por otra parte,
las fuentes a las que se orientaria el instrumento estan identificadas. Todo ello
podrfa determinar costos reducidos de administraci6n.
(c)   Condiciones para su Implementaci6n
1 Debe establecerse los niveles permisibles de los elementos t6xicos considerzdos
objeto de este instrumento.
13 A continuaci6n. debiera procederse a la asignaci6n de las autorizaciones de
emisi6n a cada una de las fuentes conncidas de contaminaci6n con tales elementos.
1 En una primera etapa. y mientras se des3rrolle un mercado. las autorizaciones
debieran tener un precio uinico preestablecido sobre la base de criterios y/o formulas
a definir. Para ello, se tendria que revisar las experiencias de otros paises, que
aplican como base la poblaci6n afectada. o el valor agregado generado.
1 Los permisos podrfan ser transados a traves de intercambios bilaterales, de
acuerdo a procedimientos establecidos por la reglamentaci6n correspondiente. La
subasta de autorizaciones y la fijaci6n de precios de oferta y demanda son
inefectivos en Bolivia debido al tamafho reducido del mercado.
13 Las intercambios estarlan limitados a la ecoregion del Altiplano, donde las
descargas tienen efectos relativamente similares devido a condiciones similares de
altura, temperatura, etc. (La Paz, Oruro, Potosil.
j                  U Las autorizaciones podrian ser trarsferidas de forma completa o parcial, a cambio
de compensacion monetaria, de acuerdo al convenio bilateral establecido.
13 La agencia reguladora debe disponer de un sistema para computar facilmente
cualquier cargo en el valor de los derechos, y tener un sistema de seguimiento
eficiente sobre los propietarios de los derechos asignados.
JI



40
Id)   Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
El diseto del instrumento. su procedimiento podrra ser incluido en el PLIEGA.
:;3.3.4 Subvenciones
Si bien el sistema econ6mico no admite subvenciones de ning(in tipo ni para ningun sector,
podr[a diseinarse un sistema que no afecte al presupuesto nacional. Si tal sistema es imple-
mentado por el Fondo Nacional del Medio Ambiente, podrfa canalizarse recursos financieros
como donaciones para estimular el desarrollo de tecnologfas innovadoras con emisiones
baias de contaminaci6n del aire, subvenciones para sistemas de energia que favorecen el
medio ambiente, e innovaci6n de tecnologras limpias en general.
1
3.3.5 Incentivos para el Cumplimiento
Las sanciones de incumplimiento seran las mismas que aquellas previstas par la Ley
General del Medio Ambiente, pues de lo contrario se recargarci con penalidades al sistema
de gesti6n ambiental que se esti estableciendo en el pais. Por lo demas, premios al control
de emisiones de aire, entraran dentro del regimen de Premia por la Contribuci6n a la
Conservaci6n Ambiental descrito en el punto 3.1.5.
3.4 Instrumentos para el manejo de desechos s6lidos
:3.4.1 Cargos por eliminaci6n
(a)   Contenido general
Se refiere a un cargo a la descarga de desechos industriales, dependiendo el mismo,
del tipo de desechos y del m6todo de tratamiento antes de que estos sean des-
cargados. Se orientan de esta manera, a incentivar el tratamiento previo a su
descarga.
De lo que se trata es de internalizar los costos de la degradacion ambiental
provocada por la descarga de desechos s6lidos industriales y de la mineria.
(b)   Posibilidad de implementaci6n
Al igual que el resto de instrumentos econ6micos, este podrfa ser igualmente
resistido por incrementar la lista de impuestos a los que esti sometida particular-
mente la industria. y por su incidencia en los costos.
Ic) Implementaci6n previn sdaptaci6n
13 Su aplicaci6n en el caso de industrias podrfa limitarse a algun tipo de descargas
de desechos s6lidos no degradables como aceites usados, ylo desechos que podrian
34



41
ser reciclables. En el primer caso se tratarba de inducir el tratamiento de tales
desechos antes de su eliminaci6n; en el segundo, se inducirfa el reciclaje de aquellos
elementos que estin siendo eliminados y que encierran un potencial para su
reutilizaci6n.
1 Actualmente existe en las ciudades una tarifa por recolecci6n de desechos
s6lidos municipales que tambien alcanza a los establecimientos industriales. Para
estos uiltimos se trata de establecer un sobrecargo por eliminar desechos con-
siderados como problemiticos desde el punto de vista de la capacidad de
asimilacion del ecosistema.
3 La aplicaci6n en el caso de la minerfa estarla orientada a la disposici6n de
residuos y colas que no s6lo afean el paisaje, sin6 que contribuyen a la degradaci6n
de recursos hidricos. Sin embargo en este caso, el prop6sito estarfa orientado a
inducir el reciclaje de estos residuos, a fin de recuperar todo lo recuperable, y
disponer el resto de forma adecuada. Ello implica evidentemente, la busqueda de
capitales nuevos para apoyar tales actividades, de acuerdo a la ley del mineral pre-
dominante en las colas.
(dl Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
El diseho de este instrumento tendrba que ser coordinado con el Ministerio de
3.4.2 Minerfa, y luego inclurdo en el PLIEGA.
3.4.2 Cargos por productos
Estos cargos se suman al precio de productos o insumos que causan contaminaci6n,
y para los que se ha establecido previamente un sistema especial de eliminaci6n.
Por su impacto en la economia a traves del aumento de precios de este tipo de
productos, y por la escasa probabilidad para establecer en un corto plazo los
sistemas de eliminaci6n de desechos, este instrumento de inviable en Bolivia.
3.4.3 Subvenciones
(a)   Contenido general
Dado el costo elevado de establecer actividades complementarias necesarias en los
establecimientos productivos para reciclar los desechos, este instrumento reviste
especial interes. Sin embargo, el mismo es incompatible con la Nueva Politica
|                  Econ6mica. lo que significa que habra que encontrar otras vias para implementarlo.
(bi Posibilidad de implementaci6n
Siempre que se decida fortalecer al Fondo Nacional del Medio Ambiente a fin de que
este capacitado para hacerse cargo de la gesti6n de los instrumentos econ6micos,
6ste organismo podrfa cana!izar una parte de los recursos provenientes de
donaciones, para subvencionar actividades privadas industriales y mineras que se
enmarquen dentro de la politica ambiental.



42
Ic) Alcances pare la Implementaci6n
Las subvenciones a canalizar a traves de FONAMA podrian orientarse entre otros,
a:
13 Industrias privadas que recuperen recursos, utilicen desechos, desperdi-
cios o materiales de baja calidad
1 Empresas que venden productos hechos de desperdicios en lugar de
materias primas de alta calidad
13 Empresas que utilizan materiales reciclados como parte de su abasteci-
miento
13 Ayudas para el establecimiento de bancos de materiales
13 Prestamos blandos qe alienten a las empresas privadas a instrumentar
actividades de recuperacion de recursos.
(d} Procedimiento para ponerlo en vigencia
El PLIEGA tendria que prever la asignaci6n de responsabilidad de la gesti6n de los
IX                 instrumentos econ6micos, a FONAMA, una vez salvadas las dificultades descritas
en el punto
Como parte de estas funciones, el FONAMA tendrla que establecer las condiciones
que debieran cumplir las empresas beneficiarias de tales subvenciones, y definir las
actividades sujeto de tales beneficios, en funci6n de las politicas ambientales
nacionales y sectoriales.
3.4.4 Sistemas de Dep6sito y Reembolso
(a)   Contenido general
El sistema de Dep6sito y Reembolso se dirige a alentar el reciclaje y evitar la
contaminaci6n. Se trata de uno de los instrumentos que ha registrado mayor exito
en la experiencia de los pafses que han implementado incentivos econ6micos a la
gesti6n ambiental. Por esta raz6n ofrece un potencial de logros en la gesti6n
ambiental en Bolivia.
(Ib Posibilidad de implementaci6n
Este instrumento se ha aplicado particularmente a las bebidas embotelladas. Sin
embargo, en Bolivia los envases de vidrio (cerveza. singani y otras bebidas alcoh6-
licas) son objeto de reciclaje, pues los consumidores los venden a precios muy bajos
a los 'compradores de botellas". que a su vez los venden a las empresas, o a otras



43
actividades que fabrican productos caseros y los venden envasados en este tipo de
botellas. En cuanto a las botellas de refrescos, estas son canjeadas en el momento
de la compra, por envases vaclos.
De esta manera. la recuperacidn de envases de vidrio permite la sobrevivencia de
sectores de poblaci6n marginados de las actividades econ6micas formales, y por
esta raz6n, no es conveniente adoptar el sistema de Dep6sito y Reembolso para
aplicarlo al caso de bebidas embotelladas.
(c) Campos de aplicaci6n
Hay otros campos en los cuales es posible aplicar este instrumento:
O Baterfas de autom6viles.- En este caso se puede establecer un "dep6sito'
para las baterfas en venta, el mismo que podrfa ser reembolsado cuando una
baterla usada es devuelta al comerciante dentro de un plazo definido. El
dep6sito no es valido para el caso en que una baterra usada es entregada al
comerciarte el momento de la compra.
13 Envases de pesticidas que la SENMA considere de uso limitado y
restringido.- En este caso se establece tambien un Dep6sito, el mismo que
es igual que en el anterior caso, reembolsado con la devoluci6n de los
envases lavados. Los Dep6sitos tendrian que ser variables en funci6n del
tamaho del envase.
13 Otros casos similares de envases considerados no deseados por la
SENMA.
Id) Procediniento para ponerlo en vigencia
Instrumento a diseniar en coordinaci6n con las alcaldfas municipales, e incluir en el
PLIEGA
4.    Otros instrumentos a considerar
La alternativa de que FONAMA asuma funciones complementarias, que estAn sefhaladas en
la Ley General del Medio Ambiente, - aunque sin explicitar la gesti6n de los instrumentos
econ6micos aplicados al medio ambiente- crea la posibilidad de nuevos instrumentos,
adernms de los descritos hasta aquf; entre estos podria sehlalarse tentativamente:
- Creditos de privilegio, a tasas menores que las bancarias, dirigidos a establecimien-
tos industriales y mineros pequefios. que incorporen tecnologras limpias. Es claro
que este instrumento contribuye a distorsional el mercado y por tanto no es
compatible con la NPE; sin embargo el costo social del cierre de estas actividades
de pequefla magnitud podr[a ser enorme;
!4



44
- Subsidios a energla no convencional;
- Primas de localizaci6n por unidad de empleo generada, para empresas industriales
que se instalen de los departamentos mas deprimidos y contribuyan al desarrollo
sostenible del mismo;
- Creditos preferenciales en terminos de inter6s y plazo, para industrias orientadas
a agregar valor a los recursos naturales renovables y no renovables;
- Cargos por desechas industriales y mineros no reciclables;
- Fijaci6n del precio del agua para fines de riego comercial y fines industriales - en
caso de ciudades donde este recurso sea subsidiado-, como base para el estable-
cimiento del derecho por el uso de este recurso para fines productivos. En caso de
la minerla, cuando el agua es provista directamente del rfo y por tanto no hay un
costo del aprovisionamiento del recurso que no sea su transporte hasta la mina,
habra que pensar en una modalidad para establecer un precio del recurso que refleje
el costo de su escasez, o su costo de oportunidad. Sin embargo, esto debera ser
objeto de un estudio particular.
I
I
I



45
CUARTA PARTE:   PROCEDIMIENTO PARA LAADOPCION DE INSTRUMENTOS ECONOMICOS
DE GESTION AMBIENTAL
3      1.    Tareas para el plazo inmediato
Posteriormente a la tarea efectuada en el presente trabajo. debera procederse a las
siguientes actividades:
(a) Diseho de una Estrategia en la perspectiva de elegir instrumentos econ6micos
y lograr combinaciones que se adapten mhs a la realidad boliviana, para apoyar cada
una de las regulaciones ambientales; es claro que ello supone la existencia previa
de tales regulaciones.
(b) La elecci6n de instrumentos debera ser coordinada con el Ministerio de
Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n. a fin de velar que no haya contradicci6n con el
modelo econ6mico. Al mismo tiempo y con esta instituci6n, se incluirfin los diferen-
tes instrumentos dentro de las replanteamientos peri6dicos programados, de la
Estrategia Nacional de Desarrallo.
(c) Diseino de las metodologras. f6rmulas y procedirmientos t4cnicos adoptados para
cuantificar la proporci6n de montos de cada uno de los instrumentos adoptados;
(d) Evaluaci6n econ6mica del impacto de los instrumentos a adoptar,- considerados
individual y colectivamente - en el presupuesto nacional, el nivel de precios y la
economfa en general.
(e) El diseflo de la Estrategia debera definir las tareas de:
- Planificaci6n de los instrumentos
- Recaudaci6n
- Administraci6n de los recursos recaudados
(f) Una vez concluidas estas tareas, se redactara el Proyecto de Ley de Instrumen-
tos Econ6micos aplicados a la Gesti6n Ambiental (PLIEGA).
(g) Se canalizara el Proyecto a travis de las vfas correspondientes, en el nivel
nacional y local, para que en ambos casos sea considerado y promulgado en el
Parlamento.
2. La adopcion de instrumentos a nivel nacional
La economia de libre mercado seguida desde 1985 permite la flexibilidad en la adopci6n de
instrumentos de poiftica econ6mica. Sin embargo ello deber6 sujetarse a algunas res-
tricciones.
En efecto, las garantlas econ6micas establecidas en la Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo
incluyen el principio de legalidad tributaria segu3n el cual todo tributo, impuesto, derecho,
rn



46
tasa, patente, arancel o contribuci6n nacional, departamental o municipal s61o guede ser
establecido oor la ley, y no como es habitual, por la vra administrativa21.
Esto significa que el proyecto de Instrumentos Econ6micos de Gesti6n Ambiental debera
ser objeto de una ley expresa que autorice su vigencia. Tal Proyecto debe ser presentado
por la Secretarfa Nacional del Medio Ambiente, a la Comisi6n de Planeamiento y Polftica
Econ6mica de la H.Camara de Diputados.
Aquf hay que selialar que coyunturalmente, el Presidente de esta Comisidn ha sido en la
anterior gesti6n legislativa, el Presidente de la Comisi6n del Medio Ambiente que ha
empujado  desde  su  inicio, el Proyecto  de  elaboraci6n  de  la Ley  General del Medio
Ambiente.- Por esta raz6n, existe la disposici6n de la Comisi6n de Poliftica Econ6mica para
apoyar un Proyecto de Ley de Incentivos Econ6micos para la Gesti6n Ambiental22.
3.      La adopci6n de instrumentos a nivel local
A nivel local, de acuerdo al Art.5.del Sistema Tributario Municipal, se puede proceder a la
creaci6n y modificaci6n de tributos, asf como otorgar excenciones, condonaciones, rebajas
y otros beneficios. a partir de las siguientes tareas:
13 la definici6n del hecho generador de la relaci6n tributaria, fi3ar el monto del
tributo, la base de su calculo e indicar el sujeto pasivo;
13 Establecer los procedimientos jurisdiccionales;
I                           1  Tipificar las infracciones y fijar las respectivas sanciones;
13 Establecer privilegios, preferencias y garantras para el cobro de obligaciones
tributarias.
De igual manera, el C6digo Tributario prevd que la creaci6n, modificaci6n o
supresidn de las tasas, contribuciones y las tarifas o precios por servicios municipa-
les", son de exclusiva atribuci6n del H.Concejo Municipal. Sin embargo, dada la
tendencia expresada en la Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo, habra que manejar con
Eatrotegi Neciak  de Demrolo. Op.Cit
B pnsdo o hslothro condy wn jufo de 1993
:T_:   z *1 .hbu   couy vo eigod ednlio   o             d   iv do un oovic pdbCeo individuracdo on *1 contlibuyentu. S ductp
fno debe twr un des   om *jln *1 wW*o rquo r lstito *1 _prruso del ob gdf
Por atrt pVt. Canymbuci6n Erodil     el  *bulao aya olbfgadn tione crno h-rh gnoodor bonoficioo derWedo. de In ralzacidn de dotrmnodos breos pDbce
o actvidedes muxncipel a V cuyo producto no debe tunwr un d dtinoa ijano em bifeci6n de dicho. ebras o a le actividado, quo coensituyon of presupuoolo de
ba obrigociin. La Contibucidn d Msior. *e Is unstid pera contoar la obrn puublica quo produce una voloermrn irobNowia V iui no conma *bM tetal el gorto
reabzado y cemr ffrrit. individual *I incrwAnto dl valor ddl rnnible bwnrrirdo.
Finent. los k"Potent- m tibutono cua obligsd6n pedicda tino coain hrcto geordor de Is reezrocidn d la activrded scondnicsaon guisrol, dontro de in
jurindicddn rnurmiipi.
4i



47
cuidado esta facultad municipal y coordinar con este organismo los instrumentos
a elegir y el procedimiento mas adecuado.
En todo caso, de sugerirse nuevos ingresos tributarios municipales adicionales V diferentes
3            a los existentes. asr como excenciones a los vigentes, la propuesta debe seguir los
siguientes pasos:
(a) Debe ser debidamente fundamentada y enviada para su revisi6n en primera
instancia. a las oficinas correspondientes (Direcci6n Tributaria) de las alcaldias de
cada una de las municipalidades donde se quiere intervenir.
(b)-Una vez considerada y aprobada la propuesta desde el punto de vista tecnico,
esta serci enviada al H.Concejo Municipal para su aprobaci6n;
(c) Una vez aprobada por el H.Concejo Municipal, la propuesta sera incluida en el
proyecto de Ordenanza de Patentes e Impuestos que sera puesta a consideraci6n
del H.Senado Nacional para su aprobaci6n final.
En el caso que se tratare de instrumentos bajo el dominio municipal, que no requieran
autorizaci6n del Senado, su aprobaci6n seral sujeto de un proyecto de Ordenanza Municipal
aprobado por el H.Concejo Municipal.
U      4.   Aspectos institucionales
'1           4.1 La gesti6n de los instrumentos econ6micos
De acuerdo al Art.87 de la Ley General del Medio Ambiente. se crea el Fondo
Nacional para el Media Ambiente (FONAMA) como 'organismo de descentralizaci6n
descentralizada con personerfa juridica propia y autonomia de gesti6n, cuyo objetivo
principal serhi la captaci6n intema a externa de recursos dirigidos al financiamiento
de planes, programas, proyectos, investigaci6n cientifica y actividades de
conservaci6n del medio ambiente y de los recursos naturales".
Es de particular inter6s apoyar la gesti6n ambiental, concediendo a FONAMA la
responsabilidad del manejo de los instrumentos econ6micos, pues de su capacidad
de captacidn de recursos propios dependeri la captaci6n de recursos externos en
calidad de donaciones, importante fuente de recursos para financiar la conservacion
ambiental
Por lo demds, el FONAMA es la instituci6n id6nea para hacerse cargo de la gesti6n
I                  de estos instrumercos porque ofrece la garantia y solvencia moral necesaria entre
el sector productvo.
Sin embargo esto supondria resolver durante la etapa de disenlo de la Estrategia,
algunos problemas:



48
(a) FONAMA es una entidad de tipo central, por lo que sera dificil que las
regiones con mayor antecedente de lucha de reivindicaci6n regional permitan
que los recursos sean administrados a nivel central.
(b) El Proyecto de Ley de Aguas atin pendiente de adaptaci6n a la Ley
General del Medio Ambiente, tiene prevista la creaci6n de autoridades
locales del agua. que tendrfan entre sus funciones, la administraci6n integral
del recurso. Siendo el principal recurso sujeto de la gesti6n ambiental para
la industria y minerba el agua, habrla que coordinar las tareas cuando se
aborde la tarea de actualizaci6n de este Proyecto.
(c) Habrra que definir cudles de las tareas podrra asumir el FONAMA ( plani-
ficaci6n de los instrumentos, recaudaci6n o administraci6n), o en su defecto,
de la forma c6mo se puede fortalecer a esta instituci6n a fin de que se haga
cargo de todas ellas.
4.2   El apoyo de instituciones del sector
Aigunos instrumentos. tal como se sefial6 en cada caso particular, requerira de la
participaci6n activa de instituciones propias. Esta es una ventaja a aprovechar, en
cuanto disminuirfa el costo de la administraci6n, pues serfan estas instituciones -
definidas con el mismo sector- las que asumirfan las responsabilidades de re-
caudaci6n. administraci6n y control de la contaminaci6n.
Es posible que surja la necesidad de fortalecer estas instituciones para esta ultima
tarea a traves de la capacitaci6n tecnica y asesoramiento. Sin embargo, las
dificultades y el costo en este caso seran menores que las que derivaran de que el
organismo regulador asuma toda la responsabilidad de la gesti6n por sr solo.
I
I



49
5.    C O N C L U S 10 N ES
El presente trabajo permite sefialar algunas conclusiones:
(a)   Por el grado de industrializaci6n alcanzado en Bolivia, perdura un marcado nivel de fragilidad
estructural para asumirtodas las tareas que exigirfa la creacion de una poirtica industrialista
de protecci6n del media ambiente. Debido a esta fragilidad estructural, el pars no esta en
condiciones para resolver tecnol6gica y productivamente los problemas planteados. Esto
plantea la necesidad de hacer una cuidadosa elecci6n de los instrumentos. que sea mfinima
en numero, tolerante dentro de Irmites y plazos razonables. y sabre todo en cuanto a
niveles de los cargos a establecer. Al mismo esta fragilidad crea la imperiosa necesidad de
estrechar los vinculos que genera la cooperaci6n horizontal.
(b)   La definici6n de la forma a adoptar para combatir la contaminaci6n debe considerar el
tamahlo de las empresas industriales y mineras. La pequefia y mediana industria (PMI), lo
mismo que la minerla pequefia y aquella con capitales nacionales y cooperativas mineras
no estan en condiciones de proponer soluciones propias ni menos de tomar el problema en
sus propias manos.
(c)   La politica y control del medio ambiente al margen de los sectores contaminadores no ha
dado resultados eficaces en ninguna parte del mundo. Es por ello preciso "hacer ecologla'
no contra los empresarios sin6 con los empresarios. Esto significa, que la Estrategia de
Gesti6n Ambiental a disehiarse debe consultar y lograr el consenso de los sectores producti-
vos involucrados.
(d)   En el disenlo de tal Estrategia sera necesario establecer esquemas de corresponsabilidad
sectorial, y aplicar criterios de territorialidad (enfatizando las zonas criticas) y temporalidad
(plazos convenidos con los sectores productivos involucrados).
(e)   En todos los casos, la Estrategia tendra que ser selectiva en lo que respecta al tratamiento
de las plantas ya existentes y para las nuevas unidades. Es justo inducir y hasta exigir a las
nuevas unidades que utilicen una tecnologia que, siendo comercialmente viable, asegure
en mejor forma el cumplimiento de las normas de calidad ambiental.
Sin embargo, el tratamiento para las unidades ya existentes debera ser diferente. Para
estas, los niveles de emisi6n de contaminantes a fijar debe permitirles cumplir con las
normas nacionales de calidad del aire dentro de un plazo prudente. Los instrumentos
econ6micos en este uiltimo caso deben ser mas inductivos por el lado positivo que
;J           represivos, es decir, mas apoyo que penalidades. Esto significa en definitiva, que el control
de las emisiones no demandar;5 necesariamente la transformaci6n productiva de todas las
unidades.
I



50
LISTA DE LEGISLACION MENCIONADA EN EL TRABAJO
Ii1. Decreto Supremo 21060 (Nuev Politica Econ6mica),1985
t      2. Ley No.1182 de Inversiones (Septiembre 1990)
3. Cddigo de Minerta (Ley 1243, de Actualizaci6n, abril 1991)
4. Ley 843 (Reforma Tributaria), 1986
5. Ley General del Medio Ambiente (Ley 1333 de 1992)
6. D.S 23308 (R6gimen Antidumping), septiembre 1992
7. D.S.21298 y 22615 (Levantamiento de las reservas fiscales),  6/junio 1986 y 3/octubre
1990 respectivamente.
X     8. D.S No.23059 (Tratamiento de impuestos sabre utilidad es de las  actividades  mineras),
Febrero, 1992
9. D.S.No.23314 (disposici6n de restituir y entregar el agua en la misma calidad en la que fue
encontrada), 21fjulio 1992
10. Ley 876 y 877 (Tratamiento Preferencial para industrias que se establezcan en los territorios
1i     de Oruro y PotosOl.- 25 abril/86 y 21mayol86 respectivamente.
1 1. Ley Organica de Municipalidades, 1985
12. D.S.22964 (Decreto para la lucha contra la pobreza), noviembre 1991
I



51
|                                  BIBLIOGRAFIA CONSULTADA
I      Anderson Dennis 'An economic perspective on management in the public sector" In: Environmen-
tal Management in developing countries.- OCDE, Paris, 1991
Bernstein, Janis D. "Planteamientos Alternos para el Control de la Contaminacifn y el Manejo de
Desechos: Instrumentos Regulatorios y Econ6micos". Banco Mundial, 1992
Brzovic Francisco J. Informe Preliminar sobre 'Instrumentos Econ6micos de Regulaci6n Ambiental"
Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente, Enero 1993
Cdmara Nacional de Indsutrias 'Un gran Desaffo: El Desarrollo Industrial Competitivo" Primer
1     Congreso Nacional de Industriales.- Cochabamba, noviembre de 1992
Corporaci6n Departamental de La Paz 'Estrategia de Desarrollo para el Departamento", 1992
Ministerio de Planteamiento y Coordinacion 'Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo: Un instrumento
I     para la Concertaci6n", Republica de Bolivia.- La Paz, 1992
Panayotou Theodore 'Economic Incentives in Environmental Management and their relevance to
developing countries' In: Environmental Management in developing countries.- OCDE, Paris, 1991
Pearce David "New Environmental Policies: The recent experience of OECD Countries and its
relevance to the Developing World" In: Environmental Management in developing countries.-
OCDE. Paris, 1991
Violand, Maria Eugenia "Anglisis de la Ley de Inversiones de 1971" En -La Industria, problemas
j     y perspectivas" Publicaci6n del Instituto Latinoamericano de Investigaciones Sociales, 1980
I
a'



APPENDIX IV.3
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
SECTORS IN BOLIVIA
I
ANALYSIS OF BOLIVIA'S INSIITUTIONAL AND LEGAL
FRAMEWORK FOR THE ENVIRONME NTAL SECTOR
By Valeria MerinoDirani
I
I
i



TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK . . . . . . .  1
A.  Organization of the government  . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.  General national policies, laws and institutions
for environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
1                B.1. The General Environmental Law  . . . . . . . .  3
B.2. The National Secretariat for the Environment
(SENMA)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
B.3. The Departmental Councils for the Environment
(CODEMAs) and their Departmental Secretariats
for the Environment (SEDEMAs)  . . . . . . . .  5
B.4. National Environmental Fund (FONAMA) . . . .    6
B.5. The Bolivian Environmental Action Plan
(PAAB)   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
C.  Environmental impact assessment . . . . . . . . . .  7
D.  Use of land and natural resources . . . . . .      8 . .  8
D.I. Planning and Development . . . . . . . . . . .  8
a. Urban Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
D.2. Soil and biodiversity conservation . . . . . . 11
D.3. Water resource management  . . . . . . . . . . 13
E.  Pollution management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
E.1. General aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
E.2. Water pollution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
E.3. Soil pollution control . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
D.4. Air pollution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
F.  occupational health and safety .  . . . . . . . . . 17
F.I. The Labor System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
F.2. Legislation of Occupational Health . . . . . . 18
F.3. Institutional framework for Occupational
_Health  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   20
G.  Foreign assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
II. THE MINING SECTOR: POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK . . . . . . 23
A.  Economic/legal reform and the mining sector . . . . 23
B.  Mining and environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
C.  Supporting institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
C.1. Within Bolivia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
C.2. Foreign assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
III. INDUSTRIAL SECTOR: POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK ....25
A.  Economic/legal reform and the industrial sector    25
B.  Industry and environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
B.1.  Water    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   25
B.2. Solid Waste  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
C.  Supporting institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
C.1. Within Bolivia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
C.2. Foreign assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
TV. FINAL RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



APPENDIX No. 1 Revised Legislation .30.....      
|     APPENDIX No. 2 Bibliography .32...    
APPENDIX No. 3 List of Interviewees. .*..........34
I
l
I
I
I
I                                     ii



TABLE OF ACRONYMS
CFD       The Center of Forestry Development
CODEMA    Departmental Councils for the Environment
CM        The Council of Ministers
COMIBOL   Bolivian Mining Corporation
CONEPLAN The National Council of Economy and Planning
ETAP      The Environmental Technical Assistance Project of the
World Bank
GOB       The Government of Bolivia
HOHW      The General Directorate of Hygiene, Occupational Health
and Welfare
INSO      The National Institute of Occupational Health
JGF       Japanese Grant Facility
MACA      Ministry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture
MEC       Ministry of Education and Culture
MECE      Ministry of Exportation and Economic Competitiveness
MEH       Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
MPH       Ministry of Public Health
MMM       Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy
MPC       Ministry of Planning and Coordination
MTCPA     Ministry of Transportation, Communications and Private
Aeronautics
MUA       Ministry of Urban Affairs
NDH       National Directorate of Hydrocarbons
NEL       National Environmental Law
NGO       Non-governmental organization
NIC       The National Institute of Colonization
iii



NSAR      National Service of Agrarian Reform
PAAB      Bolivian Environmental Action Plan
SEDEMA    Departmental Secretariat for the Environment
SENMA     National Secretariat for the Environment
TCU       Technical Coordination Unit of FONAMA
I
I
I
~1
!
I



ANALYSIS OF BOLIVIA'S INSTITUTIONAL AND
LEGAL FRAMEWORK
FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR
1.  POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
|            A.    Organization of [he government
1.    Bolivia is a republic with a democratic type of government. The three branches of governmental
power in the country -as set forth in the 1967 Constitution presently applicable- are the presidency, the
Legislative Assembly, and the Judiciary.
2.    The Executive branch is directed by the President, that is elected for periods of four years. Like
other countries in Latin America, Bolivia hat a bicameral legislative (Asamblea Legislativa). The
Executive branch has two chambers and both the members of the Chamber of Representatives and the
Chamber of Senators are elected every four years. Members of the Assembly can be reelected
consecutively, unlike the president, who has to leave office at the conclusion of his term. Finally, the
Judicial branch is headed by the Supreme Court and is based in La Paz.
3.    The attributions of the three branches of the government are laid out by the Constitution. The
stricture and powers of the Executive Branch are supplementary established by the Law. The Executive
has the power to appoint and remove ministers at the national level to administer and manage tie
sectorial areas and act as heads of the different sectorial ministries that are created by Law. Within the
Executive Branch each one of Ministries is responsible for planning and formulating policies related to
its own sector. The principal ministries with direct responsibilities regarding pollution control are:
Ministry or Energy and hlydrocarbons: implementation of policy and administration of all activities
related to the development of energy resources and exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. This
Ministry has a National Direction of Hydrocarbons. Yacimientos Petroifferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB)
is the public autonomous institution, under this ministry that is responsible for oil exploration,
exploitation and industrialization at the national level.
Ministry or Exportation and Economic Competitiveness: define policies for international commerce,
foreign investment, promotion of competitiveness and local industry, commerce and tourism.
Ministry of Social Weirare and Public HealUt: plan, direct, coordinate and implement the government's
health policy; draft all necessary technical regulations to protect the health of the population at large and
to preserve the enviromnent. Under this Ministry there is the National Institute of Occupational Health
(INSO), the most important organization witlhin this sector and also the General Directorate of Hygiene,
Occupational Health and Welfare (HOHW).
Ministry of Labor: plan, direct, coordinate and implement the government's workers policy. Within the
Ministry there is a small unit for worker's health and safety.
[l          Ministry or Mines and Metallurgy: implementation of policy and administration of all activities related
1                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~1
I



to tile exploration and exploitation of mineral resources.
Ministry or Planning and Coordination: assist and advise the President, the Council of Ministers and
other public institutions regarding social, institutional and economic development policies, strategies,
plans, programs and projects; plan and orient, in coordination with die other corresponding ministries,
the economic and social activities at the national, regional and local levels.
Ministry or Public Works: participate in the planning, coordination and implementation and development
]             of programs and plans for the urban and regional development of dhe country.
Ministry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture: implement policy and administer all activities related to the
agricultural sector, including farming and livestock; protection, conservation, restoration, development,
promotion and control of rational use of all natural renewable resources, including forests, watersheds
and soils.
The National Secretariat for the Environment: a secretariat under the President's Office with the status
of a ministry, responsible for designing and directing all policies and strategies for environmental
protection nationwide.
4.    The government structure also includes some public institutions that work at the regional and local
levels. These levels are comprised of autonomous institutions and decentralized institutions.
5.    At the regional level (departments) the General Law of Regional Corporations for Development
created public institutions with regional competence to coordinate and promote social and economic
development, through the design and implementation of programs and projects, to fulfill the national
development policies. At the same level, the country is divided into nine administrative departments:
Pando, La Paz, Beni, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, Oruro, Chuquisaca, Tarija and Potosf. These departments
are further divided into provinces and municipalities. The capital of every department has a municipality,
that is administered by a major and a municipal council. Each municipal section has also either a
municipal council or a municipal board junta) depending upon the population number.
6.     Besides municipal authorities that are elected through popular vote, each department has a central
authority representin. die executive branch, called Prefecto. Each province ias a Sub-prefecto.
B.    General national policies, laws and institutions ror enviroiunelit
7.     Bolivia as many other countries in Latin America is starting to prepare policies regarding effective
management of natural resources and environmental protection, including aspects of pollution control.
This is specifically addressed when referring to the Bolivian Environmental Action Plan (PAAB).
8.    Regarding existing legislation, a myriad of laws have been enacted and are currently in force, but
most of then have responded to a very sectorial view. Inter-relations among them were not taken in
|            consideration, resulting in many cases in overlapping among institutions. Laws in this area were enacted
without considering die purpose of contributing to the process of sustainable development, mainly because
the concept of sustainability still remains an academic and scientific concept that has not been able to find
I            its transition into operative actions.
2



9.     Sectorial laws scarcely mention the protection of the natural resources and die environment and
most of them are only very general statements, that do not describe clear procedures to protect the
environment and prevent industrial pollution.
10.   In general, Bolivia lias several governmental and semi-governmental institutions charged with
responsibilities related to economic development, natural resources management and environmental
protection. Many of these institutions have authority directly affecting each others mandate and often their
decisions overlap. In some cases responsibilities have not been legally assigned to anyone.
11.   There is not a well-defined  Axrnlinaling mechanism  acrsms public implementing agencies
(ministries) on areas affecting environmental protection. De facto coordination sometimes happens when
issues become contentious or become of a national interest. The means of coordination should be
CONEPLAN. Unfortunately, CONEPLAN is able to resolve contentious issues only at the policy level,
when the majority of the overlaps or conflicts occur at the operative level of the institutions. The National
Secretariat for the Environment (SENMA) could promote a process to identify those issues and propose
mechanisms to solve them at the operative level.
12.    All institutions act under the 'uinbrella' of two types of laws. The laws that created or established
them and the laws that regulate specific resources and gave them lhe overall responsibility. Therefore,
it is almost impossible to separate the institutional regimen from the legal regimen. Both interrelate
directly and affect each other constantly.
13.   The GOB, through the National Secretariat for the Environment (SENMA) is engaged in an
analysis of all the existing legal provisions regarding environmental protection.
14.    Since the local public level has limited capacity and little perspectives of building up that capacity
in the short-term, NGO's become even more important because they represent the only other choice to
look issues at the local level with the direct participation of the community.
15.   'Ihis analysis will cover a general overview of institutions and legislation related to pollution
control.
B.I.  The General Environmental Law
16.   The enactment of the General Environmental Law of Bolivia had as an important antecedent the
signing in 1990 of the Ecological Historical Pause (Pausa Ecol6gica Hist6rica, D.S. 22407 of January
I I, 1990 and its regulations D.S. 22884, of August 3, 1991). This Ecological Pause was initially an effort
to control timber extraction, which had gone unchecked for decades. The objective was to stop granting
new timber contracts for five years. In this period the GOB would start land use planning efforts and
would initiate actions to regulate the timber industry.'
17.    Shortly after, the concept of the ecological pause was expanded as governmenl officials realized
I
Qufntela, Carlos E- Bolivia's National Fund for the Enwironrment, A joint public/private effort to orgerniz
the investment in the enironment, FONAMA, November. 1991. p. 1.
3
iE



that was necessary to develop a national environmental agenda, that would go beyond forestry protection.
The Ecological Pause, it was concluded, would have to deal with much more fundamental issues, like
the consolidation and definition of institutions and processes to meet the environmental needs of the
country. As a consequenme, the need for a national environmental umbrella law became evident.
I S.   The Government adopted the new umbrella environmental law in June 1992, the Ley General del
Medio Ambiente (National Environmental Law - NEL, Law No. 1333 of April 27, 1992). The law
created a small environmental coordinating agency, the National Secretariat for the Environment
j             (SENMA).
19.   The NEL lays out a general conceptual framework regarding environmental quality, such as, air.
water and soil pollution control; environmental problems caused by natural disasters; control of the use
and importation of toxic or dangerous substances and the introduction of toxic waste; general principles
for natural resources management, including renewable and non-rcncwable resources; population,
environment and land use regulation to promote sustainable development; health and environment;
l           environmental education; science andi tedinology; administration of funds for environmental protection;
economic incentives to promote environmental protection; community participation; infractions, sanctions,
procedural matters and preventive and corrective actions; and general provisions to implement
environmental impact assessments.
20.   This Law states that specific regulations would be established through secondary legislation and
therefore it is expected that most sectorial laws, such as the forestry law, the mining law, the agrarian
reform law, the biodiversty law, among others, would have to be reformed to comply with the principles
of the NEL.
21.   In order to carry out the mandate of the current Law all ministries must adapt their organizational
charts to include a unit in charge of environmental issues.
B.2. The National Secretariat for the Environment (SENMA)
22.   SENMA is a secretariat under the President's Office, created in 1992, with the status of a
Ministry and is the official unit responsible for designing and directing all policies and strategies for
environmental protection. SENMA's mandate includes: Formulating and overseeing application of the
envirownental policies; introducing the environmental variables into the planning process. The Director
of SENMA is member of the National Council of Economy and Planning (CONEPLAN); planning,
coordinating and monitoring all activities related to the management of the environment;
promoting sustainable development; regulating and supervising the activities under its competence in
coordination with other public national and local entities; approving or rejecting the Environmental Impact
Assessments of national imiportance, in coordination with the sectorial ministries and the Departmental
Secretariats of the Environment (SEDEMAs); and, promoting land use regulation programs (ordenamiento
territorial) in coordination with other public and private institutions, regional or local.
23.   SENMA promotes and executes the necessary acLions to fulfill the main goal of the NEL,
environmental protection. These actions are the duty of SENMA's technical units: the Directorate of
Environmental Policy (that includes the PAAB), the Directorate of Environmental Quality Control, the
J           Directorate of Protected Areas and Biodiversity, the Directorate of Legal Matters and the Directorate of
Integrated Resources.
.1.                                                    4



24.   In the legal and institutional side SENMA is preparing under the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF)
various drafts of laws and regulations. This effort would be complemented by a project to be financed
by the World Bank, the Environmental Technical Assistance Project (ETAP), that would run until 1995.
25.   Under the JGF, SENMA is preparing the General Regulations to the National Environmental
Law, the Regulations for Environmental Impact Studies, the General Regulations regarding Environmental
Quality, a new Forestry Law and a Law for Conservation of Bitdiversity. SENMA is also assisting
Congress in order to ensure enactment of these laws.
26.   Under ETAP, SENMA would be preparing a National Water Law, beginning in August of this
year. During this year SENMA would also carry out other activities related to legal and institutional
areas, such as: training regarding environmental legislation through various seminars, one for politicians
and decision makers and one for the private sector; and the installation and operation of a data base for
the legal department (SENMA has been receiving also the assistance of the JUCN and PNUMA-ORPAL
of Mexico in this matter).
27.   In 1994 the Legal Department (LD) would start working in a draft of a National Organic Law
of Territorial Organization Oand use); the general regulations for environmental protection regarding
mining and oil drilling; an analysis of the existing international environmental protection conventions that
have not been signed and confirmed by Bolivia; a proposal to reforn the procedural system to allow class
action or community action even when there is not a direct interest at stake; a follow up of the 'Agenda
21"; and, the preparation of information bulletins. During that year the LD would continue with the
training activities with two more seminars, one for the municipalities and the other for the local NGO's.
28.   SENMA is expecting also, in 1995, to assist the sectorial institutions to prepare specific
environmental quality standards and the necessary regulations to the above mentioned laws.
B3.  The Deparlmental Councils for tbe Environment (CODEMAs) and their Deparlniental
Secrelarials for the Environment (SEDEMAs)
29.   The NEL also established Departmental Councils for the Environment (CODEMAs) in each
departamnento of the country, as organisms with the highest decision making power and consultation to
decide mainly regarding the environmental policy within their jurisdiction; to approve and enact
environmental regulations to be applied within their departameneo; to supervise and control all activities
of the SEDEMAs; and to propose lists of candidates for Departmental Secretary of the Environment.
These councils have the power to approve regulations related to the management of the environment
applicable within the boundaries of their territories.
30.   To give operativeness and Lechnical assistance to the council, the Law also created the
Departmental Secretariats for the Environment (SEDEMAs). These secretariats are decentralized
organisms of SENMA, that would execute the policy of the CODEMAs and that would oversee that such
policy follows the national environmental policy formulated by SENMA. These secretariats are not yet
operative and there is a particular concern regarding the staffing of these offices due to the lack of
qualified personnel in most of the departamnenos.
5
;



31.   USAID, sharing this concern has developed and financed a program to send to the United Stated
fifteen fellows, to obtain master degrees in areas related to environmental proLection, and quality and
polluLion control. At least one person comes from each depoanerito in the country. It is expected that
at least two or three persons would specialize in mining issues and the protection of the environment.
.B4. National Environmental Fund (FIONAMA)
32.   Financing of environmental project is the direct responsibility of FONAMA (the National
Environment Fund), a public institution, created by Law No. 1333 in 1992.
33.   FONAMA is an umbrell2 fund composed of accounts each with different characteristics and
objectives determined by the source and purpose of the funds obtained. FONAMA has a steering
committee formed by: SENMA represented by its National Secretary, three represcntatives of the
executive branch, three CODEMAs, and one representative of the local NGO's.
34.   FONAMA has the role of organizing all the investment in conservation, sustainable development
and environmental protection. To support and expand the operations of its accounts, FONAMA has three
-i          functions: technical, administrative and fund-raising. The last one encloses raising and managing funds,
including design and negotiation of debt swaps.
35.   In order to comply with the requirements of every donor, regarding management and destiny of
specific funds, FONAMA has as many Technical Comnittees as sources of funding. A Technical
Committee is in charge of managing funds from one specific sources, i.e. the Enterprise for the Americas
Initiative, and it would be organized depending on the requirements of tile donor.
36.   In the case of the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, the Committee must have representatives
from the government of the United States and the GOB and a majority of representatives of environmental
NGO's. These funds will only be used to finance environmental projects to be implemented by NGO's.
37.   The Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) of FONAMA is responsible for incorporating all the
i           projects that are received into a project portfolio, which if approved is integrated into the national project
portfolio under the responsibility of MPC. Once this task is completed the TCU organizes the portfolio
into a national environmental investment program.
38.   FONAMA through this program tries to meet the priorities defined by SENMA in the Bolivian
Environmental Action Plan (PAAB).
B.5. The Bolivian Environmental Action Plan (PAAB)
39.   In 1991, the GOB and the international aid agencies discussed for the first time the need to
prepare a PAAB. The PAAB is a project under the responsibility of the Directorate of Environmental
a            Policy of SENMA. The purpose of this plan was to design policies and to identify priorities for
environmental protection. In 1992 SENMA, with the financial assistance of the USAID through the PL-
480 program and the World Resources Instilute, started to develop the PAAB.
1                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~6



40.   'This PAAB has a unique characteristic that separates it from other environmental action plans.
Its main purpose is not only to prepare a document, but mainly to establish and support a permanent
process. The unit within SENMA in charge of the PAAB, definrs policies and priorities and produces
a constantly reviewed environmental plan independently of whether funds are available or not.
41.    A reference to a 'process' has been made because, the action plan is not a mere study that results
in a document, although a action plan could be reflected in a document or various documents. A PPAB
is a process of diagnosis, discussion and conflict resolution with all possible interested public and private
parties, that allows an institution like SENMA to identify major environmental problems in the country
and possible actions to he implemented through other public instilutinns, in charge of a specific seclor.
42.   The general objectives of the PAAB are: Establishing a normnative and institutional framework
that makes possible to incorporate environmental issues into the national and regional development
policies; formulating systematically national and regional environmental policies, that guide the
implementation of specific projects and activities by SENMA, FONAMA, MPC, and the other sectorial
institutions; promoting the study and analysis of matters related to environmental protection, by research
and educational centers, community groups and NGO's, at the national and regional level; and, exposing
to the public knowledge the activities and accomplishments of the PAAB, thorough the mass media,
nationally, regionally and internationally'.
43.   The PAAB has been implementing the following activities: a) organizing national and regional
planning workshops, to prepare national, regional and local policies for environmental management in
el Pando, Beni, Santa Cruz, Cochabamba, Chuquisaca, Tarija, La Paz, Oruro and Potosf; b) organizing
specific sectorial workshops, to prepare specific policies; c) Conducting a research and analysis program
to prornote environmental protection awareness and appraisal of the most important environmental
problems linked to economic development.
44.    As a tangible result of the PAAB, several documents have been produced. The most important
one collects the conclusions of the National Workshop for Environmental Planning, that was held in
Cochabamba in August, 1992. This document summarizes the proposal for a national environmental
policy3.
C.    Environmental impact asesrsment
45.   The National Environmental Law, in articles 24 to 28, refers to ElAe. The Law states various
categories of studies depending upon the possible impacts of prjects or activities. It is mandatory for all
public and private activities or projects to be classified under those parameters. Article 25, contains the
following categories: a) requires a full analytical EIA; b) requires a specific analytical EIA; c) it does not
require a specific analytical EIA, but a conceptual analysis; and
2      Gui *s el P.A.A.B.7. SENMA. 1992.
Propuestes para uns Podtice Ambientat Naconal. SENMA. 1992.
ElAs are the set of adriunistrative procedures, studies and technical systems that allow to evaluate the
impacts. negative end positive, that could be caused by a specific activity or project, NEL, article 24.
7



d) it does not require any study. Mie NEL does not specify the pmcedure to apply this classification.
46.    As the result of a study corresponding to any of the mentioned categories, a Environmental
Impact Statement (Declaratoria de Impacto Ambiental - DIA)' has to be prepared by the competent
sectorial organism and then issued by the SEDEMAs and finally ratified by SENMA. SENMA has twenty
days to raLify such statement and failure in doing so results in an automatic waver of this requirement.
If a project has a national scope, the DIA has to be prepared directly by SENMA (article 26).
47.   SENMA and its SEDEMAs have, in coordination with the existing regional organisms, the duty
to control, monitor and evaluate the implementation of the EIAs and all protection and mitigation plans
resulted from the elaboration of such studies and the corresponding DIAs (article 28).
48.    As a result of the enactment of the NEL, SENMA has to regulate the types of public and private
projects and activities that require EIAs in the terms described in article 25. SENMA is currently
preparing and analyzing a set of regulations to define the procedures for filing, categorizing, evaluating,
controlling, monitoring and evaluating EIAs
D.    Use of land and natural resoiurces
D.I.  Planning and Development
49.    Planning in general is done at three different levels. The National level in charge to the Ministry
of Planning, the sectorial level in charge to other ministries and other public institutions and the local
level in charge to the municipalities.
50.   In Bolivia there is also planning at the regicnal level, that is the responsibility of the Regional
Corporations for Development (RDC), that are public institutions with deparLmental competence to
coordinate and promote social and economic development.
a. Urban DeveloDment Regarding the use of land for urban development there are three institutions with
simi!ar responsibilities: the municipalities, the Ministry of Urban Affairs and the Ministry of Public
Health.
51.   The Ministry of Urban Affairs (MUA) is the highest sectorial authority with competence to define
policies for urban deveopment and enact generally enforceable regulations for the sector.
52.   This ministry is mainly a regulatory agency and not an implementing agency. The MUA has
prepared and enacted regulation related to the construction of potable water and sewerage systems as well
as sanitary facilities in buildings.
A Environmental Impact Statement would indude ll studies. recommendations. norms and lirmits to be
followed in the implementetion of * project or activity evaluated and registered in the SEDEMAS or in
SENMA. The DIA would become the legal and technica refererce for the periodic evaluation of a project
or activity.
8
i



53.   Municipalities have nlanning responsibilities at the local level. The Municipal Code, article 9 lit.
1, gives lo municipalities the compctence to elaborate, approve and execute urban development plans at
the local level. Municipalities traditionally have concentraLed their efforts in tbe, urban areas, lacking the
capacity tl) plan for rural areas.
54.   ArLicle 9, lit. 17 of the same code, assigns municipalities die duty 1o preserve the envirmnient,
control pollution and maintain the ecological equilibrium, in coordination with the Ministry of Public
Health and the Ministry of Agriculture.
55.   At the urban areas, the municipalities should also provide all necessary public services and
administer them, i.e. potable water, sewerage systems, solid waste disposal, etc. T'his gives implicitly the
municipalities competence to oversee all aspects of pollution control.
56.   The Ministry of Public Healdil, un.er the Health Code of 1978, has some responsibilities
regarding environmental protection and pollution control, although urban planning in general at the local
|           level is a duty of the municipalities.
57.   The Ministry of Public Health has direct responsibility to control that health standards are met
in all sorts of constructions and buildings, including aspects like the following ( Health Code, articles 46-
52): all new urban development, the expansion of existing towns and cities and the construction of new
neighborhoods; and, the health standards for construclion and functioning of theaters, cinemas, sports
facilities, hotels, restaurants, transportaLion facilities (airports, harbors, bus stations).
58.   The Ministry or Public Health is also allowed to inspect at any time houses, office and apartment
buildings, etc., to control health and safety standards.
b. Potable Water Surmlv On one hand, under the Code of Health, D.L. No. 15629 of 1978, tie Ministry
of Public Health (articles 32-38) has the duty to regulate, oversee and control the quality of all water used
for human consumption. On the other hand, the Ministry of Urban Affairs, through D.S. 2296411991,
is the institution with national competence in basic sanitation, including potable water and sewerage
systeems.
59.    Although, D.S. 22964 was enacted subsequently to the Code of Health, Supreme Decrees (D.S.)
are of lower hierarchy than Law Decrees (D).L.) enacted under a de-f3cto type of goverruments and
therefore can not be superseded by D.S.. Accordingly, at least from the legal point of view the Ministry
of Pubhic Health remains a competent institution in this area.
60.   The Ministry of Urban Affairs, through the National Directorate of Basic Sanitation of the
Ministry of Urban Affairs (DINABSA), has national jurisdiction and competence to: organize the national
system of basic sanitation (potable water and sewerage). This includes, prioritization of all plans an;d
projects of basic sanitation to be implemented by any public or private entity with the objective of
including ihem into the National System of Investment; organize all national pre-investment programs;
coordinate that regional programs comply with the national planning; supervise the tariff policy; assist
the Departmental Directorates of the RDCs and the local water enterprises, among other attributions.
3            61.    DINABSA is empowered by D.S. No. 22964: to plan at the national sectorial level and to
coordinate with all pertinent national and international organisms; to regulate the design of water and
9
I4



sewerage projects; and, to provide assistance to the municipalities, water enterprises and RDCs, and
cooperatives, committees. juntas and NGO's involved in water supply projects.
62.   Currently, DINABSA is playing mainly a normative and planning role. This unit is not
implementing or executing any infrastructure projects, although it is assisting in the design phase of
projects and also in allocating resources. The Social Investment Fund (FIS) would be financing projects
through hiring of construction companies. There will also be one million USS available for pre-feasibility
(pre-inversi6n) studies to -the provided by the World Bank.
63.    Under the Organic Law of Municipalities of 1985, the municipalities have to offer services such
as potable water supply and sewerage system. Neverlheless, municipalities under the Organic Law of
Municipalities do not have the competence to regulate potable water quality.
64.    Potable water services are currently administered in almost all cases by water enterpriscs, which
have a direct participation of the municipality within their board of directors. In some cases, like in Santa
Cruz, the community has a direct participation in the administration of SAGUAPAC, the water cornpany.
65.    SAMAPA in La Paz, SEMAPA in Cochabamba, SAGUAPAC and others alike apply in general
the potable water standards of the WHO. A centralized system of water quality monitor_ ., hI-. not been
implemented, although a informal systen called Program for Qualitv .2:nntrol and Water Monitoring
(Programa de Control de Calidad y Vigilancia del Agua), has been opet    ^  several years, with the
participation of the private sector.
c. Rural development National planning and development contrmi . .ardlin rral Ind use is amost
nonexistent, both at the legal and operative level. Use of rural land currenL.j iesponds in Bolivia to the
individual decisions of the owners or to the always increasing demographic pressure. This has not
necessarily been the resulL of a lack of political willingness to solve the pro' ;em, but it has raLher been
X             the consequence of the social structure, that gravitates around the land.
66.   At the sectorial level, serious efforts to establish a pattern of soil utilization have been
implemented without tangible results. The Law of Agrarian Reform recognizes a system of land use
capability classification (articles 97-100) but a national mapping to actually classify the soil under those
parameters has not been performed. The only other significant reference in the same law, relates to the
official recognition of rural towns wnd communities, with the purpose of including them in the planning
process to provide them with basic services and other necessities for development (article 101-113).
67.   The enactment of a sectorial law in this area seems advisable and it is considered a priority by
SENMA. It is not clear yet the concept that such a law would embrace, but it would be efficient only if
a verv flexible body of regulations is devised to allow the law to adapt to the development of the process.
cd. General considerations Land use planning and control includes generally additional cDncerns, such
as agriculture and forestry development, national parks and biodiversity conservation, and recreation,
among other. All those issues although do not relate directly to the case in point, industrial and mining
pollution, are dealt with in this annex.
68.   nTe issue of land planning and development must respond to some kind of prioritization in order
to determine parameters for urban and rural planning, agriculture versus forestry, conservation of
sensitive ecological areas and biodiversity in favor of other activities and also the definition of uses and
10
- I
--.---- * -   .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .~~~.-{.q - .



conservation or hydraulic resources.
69.   All these Issues are going to be addressed during the preparation and analysis of the new National
Water Law, National Organic Law or Territorial Organization land use), Forestry Law and Law for
CGnservation of Biodiversity. Nevertheless, it seems necessary to explore dite possibility to have a
complernentary Urban and Rural Development Code. This Code should comprise all laws and regulations
attaining to the planning and organization of rural and urban areas, regarding land use: the administration
of public services (water, sewerage, and solid waste); the environmental and health control in the urban
areas; the authorization for partition of parcels and lots: lbuilding of public and community infrastructure
and services; all new urban development (neighborhoods), the expansion of existing towns and cities and
the construction of houses, office and apartment buildings and public works (roads); etc.
D.2.  Soil and biodiversily conservation
70.   Bolivia's legislation refers to the protection or the soil in dilferent laws generally linked to the
regulation of agricultural use of the land and forestry. Those regulations have to be enforced by several
institutions with similar responsibilities under the law: the National Service of Agrarian Reform, the
National Institute of Colonization and the Center of Forestry Development (CFD). Additionally, activities
for soil conservation have been associated with protected areas and national parks, which are currently
managed by the Directoraie or Protected Areas and Biodiversity of SENMA.
Agrarian refrrn
71.   The National Service of Agrarian Reform and the National Institute of Colonization: the
regulation of land use for agriculture in Bolivia has been very much linked since 1953, with the process
of Agrarian Reform. Indeed, the Law of Agrarian Reform (D.L. 3464) was enacted in August of 1956
and its implementation was given to the National Service of Agrarian Reform (NSAR), with the mandate
to define the policy of agrarian reform and to redistribute land and resources on a more equitable basis.
72.   The Agrarian reform modeled on the Mexican experience, established the entitlement of those
who own and use land, and has not change in the past 40 years. The original owner of the land is the
state, which can sell or grant it with title. Entitlement apply to users dassed as smallholders, indigenous
communities, medium holders, and large enterprises. Land rental and sharecropping are prohibited,
-          properties classed as small may not be mortgaged, and working of the land is a means to acquiring title.
73.   Later in 1966, the Law of Colonization (D.S. 7765), was also enacted to promote a process of
-          occupation by settlers, of state owned lands or lands that were under-used. These settlers would have to
be reallocated into the areas open by the government. This law had to be implemented by the National
Institute of Colonization (NIC).
74.   Unfortunately, neither the agrarian reform nor the colonization process linked titling with the need
to prevent soil degradation. In fact, the agrarian reform along with the colonization mechanism promoted
I           an aggressive process of division of the land into small (10-15 ha.) and middle size lots (30-350 ha. in
El Altiplano and 150-600 ha. in tropical and sub-tropical areas), providing little technical assistance and
credit.
I~~~~~~~~~~~1



75.    Recent studies have concluded that blame for poor performance of the agrarian reform program
fall almost exclusively on the allocation and quality of public expenditures that could have altered the
physical capital, knowledge embodied in human resources (human capital), and availability of modern
inputs-and thus could have increased welfare and reduce damage to the environment.
76.   Currently the agrarian reforn  and colonization process has come to a halt, because the
government has decided to paralyze all activities within the NSAR and the NIC undertaking a major
auditing operation to evaluate and correct procedures within these institutions. Furthermore, it seems that
the GOB would substitute the mentioned institutions with a new public entity that would be called the
National Land Institute. Consequently, it also seems that the Law of Agrarian Reform and the Law of
Colonization would be revised and probably reformed.
Forestation
77.   The Center for Forestry Development has been the institution in charge of forestry and wildlife
and consequently the responsible entity for enforcement of the Forestry Law (D.L. No. 1 1686, 1974) and
its regulations of 1977.
78.   Forestry has been regarded as an activity that if well managed not only could be very profitable
but also could contribute to soil protection, preventing erosion. Unfortunately, forestry activities have
been scarcely promoted and protected, mainly because forestry legislation and agrarian reform legislation
have been totally incompatible. Thus the Law of Agrarian Reform did not even consider the possibility
of granting title of land with forestry purposes. Furthermore, through the agrarian reform process land
covered wilh fcrest has been granted for agricultural purposes, causing that forestry products could be
acquired ror free.
a7.   Questions have been raised about whether forestation could be promoted as a sustainable and
profitable activity, and always the answer has gravitated around the subject of the market price of logs.
It seems that the agrarian reform process has negatively impacted sustainable forestry activities when
granting title in forestry areas, for agricultural purposes and therefore supplying landholders with free
forestry products that are sold at very low prices or even worst burned. Thus, lamlholders that want to
maintain and manage forests with commercial purposes have to compete in the market with landholders
j          that have acquired the forest for free and therefore are able to sell it for nothing at no lost.
80.   SENMA has been working in a draft of a new Forestry Law that is expected to be enacted by
Congress during this year.
81.   The mentioned draft seems to face the problem of promoting sustainable use of the forest in a
very conventional way, without introducing an innovative approach, more compatible with the socio-
economic reality and the institutional capacity in Bolivia.
82.   First of all the project defines that the government owns all forests and forestry land, thus leaving
|           an open question regarding the status of re-forestation activities and the resulted planted forests.
Furthennore, and following a pattern that has proved highly ineffective in Latin America, all control over
forest exploitation in every stage has to be authorized and supervised by the government. This system has
|           been virtually impossible to implement in other countries with a territory much more smaller that Bolivia,
for example El Salvador.
12



¶
83.   Second of all, the draft declares as a policy of the State the protection of natural forest,
nevertheless all throughout the wording it is clear that the exploitation of natural forest with commercial
purposes and even the exportation of logs coming from natural forest would be allowed. Exploitation of
forest would be authorized and granted through concessions and concessionaires would have to elaborate
a management plan to secure sustainable exploitation of the resources, nevertheless the draft it is not
specific enoughi regarding the duty to re-forestate.
3             Biodiversity and Protected Areas
84.   Protected areas and national parks are regulated by the Law of Wildlife, National Parks, Fisheries
vand HunLing, (D.L. 12301, 1975) and later by the National Environmental Law that designates SENMA
as the institution responsible for its administration, through its Directorate of Protected Areas and
Biodiversity of.
85.   Bolivia has an extensive and important system of protected areas, unfortunately most of then have
been created only on a formal basis, but little or none conservation activities have been implemented.
Only very few parks are currently receiving enough funding and assistance, those which had are mainly
under the Parks in Peril program financed by The Nature Conservancy.
86.   In order to facilitate and optimize the management of national parks and the protection of
biodiversity, SENMA with the financial assistance of USAID, The World Bank, the Government of
Holland, COTESU, UICN, Conservation International and the Commission on Ecology and the
Environment of the Bolivian Congress, has prepared a draft of a Law for Conservation of Biodiversity.
This draft also addresses the administration of national parks and protected areas.
87.   The proposed draft constitutes an important step forward because it decentralizes the
I            administration of the national parks and the biodiversity. It also establishes for the first time a formal
procedure to control de use of the genetic resources contained in biodiversity and emphasizes the
panicipation of the community in the conservation activities. On the other hand, this draft does not
provide the possibility to assign or delegate the administration of individual protected areas or resources
to NGO's or community groups. This issue should be analyzed since this alternative is widely accepted
in Latin America as the obvious one to secure enough funding through international assistance and
provide therefore a better managerial service to the protected areas and national parks and of course
biodiversity in general.
88.   It seems necessary to promote a process to discuss the new forestry legislation, the proposed
biodiversity law and also the possible new agrarian reform legislation, analyzing how all those related
to each other and affect each other. Even though it could be useful to have tbree separated laws, it is
indispensable that such laws reflect one single policy for land use management and protectiDon of the
natural resources.
D3.  Water resource management
89.   All hydraulic resources are property of the State. The concept of hydraulic resources includes
surface and underground waters. The rivers and all river beds are public property (Article 136 of the
Constitution) and also the lakes and lagoons located in public property.
13



90.   Currently, there is no general set of regulations for water management in Bolivia. There are some
regulations dated 1906 for use of waters that were enacted through decree. These regulations provide a
legal framework for surface and ground water allocation and use, and also include provisions for drainage
systerns usage and the right of access on public or private property to use hydraulic resources.
91.   Under the Organic Law of Municipalities of 1985, municipalities have to protect all natural
resources (water). In order to do this, municipalities are able to enact ordinances that are enforceable only
within their territories.
3            92.   There are also under bolivian legislation, some institutions called services for management of
river basins. One of them is SEARPI (Servicio de Encauzamiento de Aguas y regularizacion del Rfo Pirar
in Santa Cruz) created in 1983 and based in Santa Cruz. This institution is a public autonomous organism
9            with competence to implement all necessary actions to regulate the Piral river, including coordination and
planning of social and economic development within the basin, in order to preserve and protect it. It is
not clear how the powers of this kind of institution are coordinated with the duties and powers of other
I           sectorial institutions, but it seems a very interesting approadc to management of river basins because it
gives one entity the power to plan and implement holisticly and maybe this could be a model to be used
- 1          to control pollution of water bodies in Bolivia.
93.   In order to define a general institutional framework to manage water resources, several drafts of
a national water law have been prepared and discussed in the last decade, unfortunately none of them
|           have had enough political support to be enacted. SENMA will be preparing a new proposal under the
ETAP project financed by the World Bank. It seems that enactment of a Water Code, that is a
comprehensive body of laws that compiles all existing regulations and defines clearly the competence of
each institution, establishing homogeneous standards enforceable by all of them would improve the
situation considerably. Of course, a program for institutional strengthening and technical assistance would
be required to put in place the laboratories and technical facilities that would be indispensable to monitor
and evaluate compliance with the law. An Executive Committee for the Protection of Hydraulic Resources
could be organized by SENMA to promote tlis process.
E.    Pollution management
E.I.  General aspects
94.   The National Environmental Law assigns to SENMA the right to establish general standards for
pollution control. This power was given to the Secretariat without abolishing or clearly stating which
would be then the status of all other regulations and existing institutions.
95.   As would be analyzAd subsequently, there still remain regulations and institutions that are overlap
in this area.
E.2.  Water pollution
96.   The Ministry of Urban Affairs, enacted in 1985 the Regulations for DispQsal of Industrial Waste
into Bodies of Water, Ministerial Resolution No. 010/85. These regulations gave competence to the
Ministry of Urban Affairs, the Ministry of Public Health, the local institutions and the decentralized
organisms of the ministries to implement the mentioned regulations.
14



no local regulations in place to control this problem.
d. General considerations  Unfonunately, most of the existing regulations and provisions for soil
conservation and pollution control have never been enforced or implemented, and in fact soil pollution
is recognized as one of the important environmental problems of Bolivia. Lack of institutional
coordination is to be blamed for this problem, because there is a generalized overlapping of regulations.
107.  Interviews with public sector employees have made it possible to confirm that the implementation
of the existing regulations is very deficient. Only recollection and disposal of solid waste is being done
in urban areas by the municipalities or their enterprises and the technical standards applied are very basic.
D.4.  Air pollution
108.  Under the Health Code of 1978 (D.L. 15629), the Ministry of Public Health, had the duty to
organize, through regional and local organisms, the elimination and control of air pollution. This Law,
I           as in the case of soil pollution control, does not state an specific mechanism to implement this control
and no other legislation has been enacted. In theory, all industries have to obtain authorization from the
Ministry of Public Health to operate and establish a system to treat their emissions to the atmosphere.
I            lThe Ministry of Public Health has to enact air quality standards, but it is not clear the role of the different
existing institutions to implement the regulations.
109.  Subsequently, the National Environmental Law gave to SENMA the duty to implement all actions
to prevent and control environmental pollution, including air.
110.  Recently, through D.S. 23347 of Decenber of 1992, a National Program fbr Air Pollution
Control was established to carry out a pilot project to control air pollution in urban areas, through a
Multisectoral Technical Commission, formed by: SENMA, MPH, MEH, MTCPA, MUA, MECE, MEC,
MACA and the National Police. Each institution that is part of the Commission has been also individually
assigned responsibilities to carry out the projec. Currently, the project is in a design phase and
implementation would start during 1993, although some monitoring is currently carried out by SENMA
with the assistance of the Mexican governmeat
F.    Occupational lLealtih and sarety
F.l. The Labor System
111.  Most legal systems in South America recognize two different sets of regulations regarding public
employees and workers of the private sector. These regulations recognize different rights for these two
kinds of workers. Public workers are regulated by the Law of Administrative Career and private workers
by the General Labor Law.
112.  Bolivia's legislation recognizes this classification but the criteria for this categorization is based
upon the type of institution which a person is working for. If a public institution is a centralized
institution receiving only public funds from the National General Treasury, for example a ministry, the
employees are subject to the Law of Administrative Career, but it the institution is a decentralized,
independent organism, raising its own funding its employees would be subject to the regulations that the
institutions had decided to apply, and those could be either the Law of Administrative Career or the
17
I~~~~~~~~.



(article 84). The employer is obliged to notify regarding any accident or injury within 24 hours, to tbe
General Directorate of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare or to the local Labor Directorate
(article 85). Articles 87 to 92 describe all degrees of disablement cases and the corresponding monetary
compensations. The degrees of disablement recognized by the law are: a. death;
b. permanent and total disablement; c. tempurary and total disablement; d. permanent and partial
disablement; and, e. temporary and partial disablement.
128.  The General regulations to the General Labor Law of 1943, articles 61 to 102, establish the
different compensations for the different scales of disablement mentioned before, being the maximum
J            compensation two years of salary, paid one time in the case of death or permanent and total disablement.
To calculate most compensations the regulations indude a chart that appears in anicle 91. The chart
shows the kind of disablement and the percentages of limitation that each causes to a person, considering
100% as total disablement.
129.  DeaLh: if a worker dies as a result of an accident on the job or a disease cause by its working
activity, the emnloyee has to compensate the family and cover all burial costs (article 74).
130.  To complement the previously mentioned regulations, there is a General Law of Hygiene,
Occupational Health and Welfare of 1979. This law addresses the general rules to control and monitor
occupational health issues, including the duties of employers and workers, employment of women and
minors, and the institutional framework.
131.  This law also regulates conditions at the place of work (infrastructure, windows, escalators,
elevators, lighting, ventilation, sanitary facilities, roads and exits, electric equipment); fire prevention
measurements (handling of flammable and explosivesubstances), protection against machinery and general
handling of tools, steam machinery, ovens and dryers, transportation of materials and transportation
equipment, transportation and handling of dangerous, toxic or radioactive substances, usage of safety
3            equipment (gloves, uniforms, helmets, etc.), and finally general maintenance.
132. The Regulations of Hygiene and Industrial Safety, D.S. No. 1694 of July 29 of 1949 were
enacted before the Law mentioned in the precedent paragraph and created the National Directorate of
Hygiene and Industrial Safety now the General Directorate of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare
and it seemns that is still applicable because in general it does not contradict the laws enacted subsequently.
F3.  Institutional rramework ror Occupational hlealtih
133.  The General Law of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare of 1979 establishes the
institutional framework for regulating, controlling and monitoring occupational health issues. The main
institutions or organisms involved are:
-     The National Council of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare;
!   -  The General Directorate of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare at the Ministry of Labor,
and
-     The National Institute of Occupational Health (INSO).
134.  Tne National Council of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare is formed by the Minister
of Labor, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Mining, the National Director of Hygiene,
Occupational Health and Welfare, the Executive Director of the Bolivian Institute of Social Security, the
National Director of the National Institute of Occupational Health (INSO), a representative of the workers
20
.



union (Central Obrera Boliviana) and a representative of the Confederation of Private Enterprises. The
Council has the power to produce all policy in this area and 2lso is in charge of institutional coordination.
It seems that the council has not been able to fulfill these objectives. In fact during the last four years the
council did not meet and only recently it has started meeting again.
135.  The General Direclorate of Hygiene, Occupational Health and Welfare at the Ministry of Labor
(GDHOHW), is the operative unit in charge of supervising compliance with the General Law of Hygiene,
Occupational Health and Welfare of 1979.
136.  This institution has Occupational Health Inspectors, in cbarge of receiving and processing
complaints and reports regarding professional accidents or illness.
137.  This unit is located in La Paz and only has six inspectors to take care of all reports and
complaints in the country. The General Directorate does not have units in other departments or cities of
the country. When a complaint or a report is received in other cities, the local labor inspectors handle
it and only when thiere is a disagreement between the inspector and the parties involved (employer or
employee), a occupational health inspector from La Paz would then handle the maUter.
138.  Regarding monitoring and evaluation, all industries have to fill in a questionnaire (DA2) every
three months and send it to the GDHOHW. Tlis questionnaire contains information regarding all
accidents and illness occurred in the industry in the last trimester. The questionnaire is sold at the
Naxuonal Health Fund (Caja Nacional de Salud). It seems that the information collected is just received
and filed, but it has not been used to produce scientific data regarding most common accidents and illness
and possible ways to prevent them.
139.  Furthennore, because of the lack of personnello, the GDHOHW  limits itself to inspect
industries that have been identified as of high risk level and therefore an important percentage of
industries is never vicited unless an accident or illness is reported.
140.  All individual accidents and illness have to be reported by the employers, sending to the
GDHOHW a questionnaire DAI, also available at the National Health Fund. Information gathered leads
to believe that almost 40% of all accidents and illness are never reported because employers and
employees reach direct agreements. Only when direct agreements are not reached employers file reports
or employees file complaints. In the case that either the employer or the employee or both disagree with
the decision reached by the occupational health inspector, the case is sent to court. Within the judicial
system the cases regarding labor issues are decided by the District Labor Courts and then on appeal by
the National Court of Labor. Only by certiorari (casaci6n) are cases revised by the Supreme Court of
Bolivia. If the court rules that an employer failed to compiy with the existing regulations, a fine oDuld
be established, ranging from 1,000 to 10,000 bolivians (US$ 250 to 2,500) based upon the seriousness
of the case.
141.  All industries must organize committees (comitds mixtos) to oversee that all occupational health
and safety regulations are obeyed. These committees are formed by an equal number of representatives
of the employer and the employees. Apparently these committees a very infrequently organized.
a 10    The General Directorate has orny six inspector and they we. nurse, a mechanics technidan. * socid worker, a
mnthematics professor, an accountant. and a public official with experience In public adnInistration.
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 21
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
3



Industries also must have a department of hygiene, industrial safety and welfare depending upon dhe ratio
of accidents and illness they had and also the number of workers. It is not clear if this is mandatory
because there are no clear regulations regarding who makes the final decision to make a industry to create
such department.
142.  The General Directorate is preparing drafts of various regulations: Health and Safety for
Construction Workers; Medical Services to the Provided by Companies; and Regulations to Use Asbestos.
There is no provisions regarding health standards for the mining industry and tde Ministry is not currently
working is this area.
143. The National [nstitute of Occupational Health (INSO) is a national institution that mainly does
research and evaluation activities and training. It has 50 people working there and it has four departments,
Hygiene and Industrial Health, Labor Medicine, Planning, and Administration and Services.
G.    Foreign assistance
144.  Most international organizations are providing some support to environmental protection and
management in Bolivia, although direct assistance to control environmental pollution is much more
limited.
145.  The World Bank tirough the EIAP project would be financing the most important project in this
area, that would include strengthening of SENMA and FONAMA, preparation of laws and regulations
and environmental education. A considerable part of the project would deal with the implementation of
the regulation for environmental quality.
146.  The Interamerican Development Bank currently does not have an environmental project to assist
I            the GOB, but it has a Project for Urban Development and Sanitation (PRODULSA) that includes potable
water and sewerage systems and strengthening of municipalities. The same is applicable to USAID and
the GTZ that have concentrated their effort in urban sanitation.
147.  On the other hand, the Office of Cooperation of the Netherlands, would finance through
FONAMA (USS 3'000.000) and LIDEMA (US$ 500,000) small projects that would include some related
to pollution monitoring and training.
I
T                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~22



IX. THE MINING SECTOR: POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
A.    Economic/legal reform and the mining sector
148.  The New Economic Policy, established in 1985, meant the change in Bolivia from a highly
protectionist economic system towards a general liberalization, domestically as well as in relation to the
exterior. Among other things, it meant the abolition of the extensive net of subsidies which had distorted
the economy. Another main issue was the emphasis on export as the base for sustained economic growth.
This policy was developed further in the National Development Strategy (MPC 1992), which stressed the
importance of the private sector in economic, labor, and management matters (and a corresponding
shrinking of the state sector within these fields) and the deepening of the reform  regarding
decentralization and modernization of the State.
149.  Within the mining sector, the new policy implies that the government should search for conditions
and mechanisms to attract private risk capital, as the state mining is not in a situation to make major
investments. The strategy comprises the following main aims:
- Avoid the collapse of the tradititnal mining industry through private investors, capable of providing
capital, modern tecinology and management competence.
- Generate a process of expansion and strengthening of the sector in accordance with the mineral potential
of the country.
- Eliminate the state interventionism and protectionism.
3 Establish appropriate lines of credits.
150.  These principles were established in legal form with the modification of the Mining Code in 1991.
X            i(Law No. 1297, Cddigo de Minerta). Through this new legislation, clear rules regarding mining rights
and procedures for their allocation were established, as well as the tax provisions in association wilh the
exploitation of a deposit. Thus, all taxes on production and exportation have been eliminated and
replaced with a general tax on net profits of 30%, and a complementary tax (guarantee amount) of 2.5%
on net sales value. The latter is paid only when the profit tax is lower than the complementary tax, and
then replaces the former. These rules are valid for all new companies fonned after October 1992 and will
successively replace the old system based on royalties.
B.    Mining and environment
151.  The very few provisions within the mining code addressing the issue of pollution control, all
regard Lhe use of water. Thus, the article 85 assigns the right of use of water within the concession to
the titular, but obliges him to return it to the source with the original characteristics. Article 87 calls for
I            indemnization to those affected if water is rendered useless for human, animal or agricultural use.
Although implicit, no mention is made of water treatment to prevent damage. Article 91 states that the
concessionaire has to get a water concession from the Superintendency of Mining. This latter control by
the Superintendency concerning water rights could cause conflict with other authorities within this field.
23
J



According to particular laws aimed at promoting investment, the mining sector is favored by a short
|           depreciation time for investments in machinery (5 years) and, in addition to this, the possibility to deduct
investments against profits. These possibilities include investment for the improvement of the
environment. Even if these incentives are primarily economic in character, they should also help in
improving the environmental situation, partly as investments addressed directly towards environmental
improvements, partly as process and other improvements which indirectly give advancements also from
an environmental point of view.
C.    Supporting institutions
C.1.  Within Solivia
152.  All mining activities are under the supervision of the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy (MMM).
However, the actual allotment of exploration or exploitation rights, is carried out by the Superintendency
of Mines (includes regional offices), an organization which lies under the Court of Mining. The
Superintendency has at its disposal for field investigations, the Technical Service of Mining, a unit under
the MMM, with regional offices in the main mining departments. A decentralized unit for the
administration of mining rights records, the National Service of Mining Cadastre (SENCAM), was
recently established. The Technical Service of Mining will be transferred to SENCAM.
153.  In accordance with the stipulations in the Environmental Law, a Direction of Environmnent is
planned to be established within the MMM. Presumably this unit will be in charge of environmental
matters related to mining, i.e. the elaboration of environmental regulations to the mining code, the
supervision of environmental studies (EIA) related to new mining projects, and supervision of the
enforcement of environmental regulations within the mining sector. To a large extent, the Direction of
3            Environment will have to rely on expertise outside of the MMM.
C.2. Foreign assistance
154.  There are plans at present to form a group of local consultants, with financing from UNDP, who
will carry out, among other things, the formulation of environmental regulations to the mining code.
.
!                                                     2
'4



III. INDUSTRIAL SECTOR: POLICY AND LECAL FRAMEWORK
A.    Econoimc/legal reform and [lie industrial sector
155.  The New Economic Policy of 1985 also applies to the industrial sector in Bolivia, as it does to
the mining sector. This policy aims to promote free market and competition, technological transfer to
modernize the system specially through joint ventures and industrial reconversion of obsolete operations.
I             Marginal operations are no longer protected and state interventionism and protectionism have been
eliminated almost completely. Incentives have been redirected eliminating preferential low rate credit and
focusing on incentives for innovation.
156.  Regarding export industry, most restrictions on exports have been eliminated and a unifonn tariff
system on imports has been put in place. A national strategy to allow market allocations has been
| I         developed, with less interference from the government. Non-traditional exports have been specially
favored by the new economic policy (leather goods, agro-based products. etc.).
157.  Foreign investment has been highly encouraged by the new Law of Investment, enacted in 1990,
which establishes a clear and stable set of rules to allow repatriation of profits, capital and interests,
dividends and royalties, liberated exchange rate and transfer of technology.
B.    Industry and environment
158.  Provisions regarding industry and environmental restrict themselves only to water and solid waste
issues.
B.1.  Water
159.  As it was analyzed previously in this report the Ministry of Urban Affairs (MUA), through
DINABSA, has national jurisdiction and competence to organize the national system of basic sanitation,
that includes environmental pollution control, being this ministry a normative and planning agency.
160.  Regionally the Departmental Directorates for Sanitation of the Regional Development Corporation
(RDC) must control water quality within the localities (cities, town, rural areas) where the local
authorities are unable to do so. Locally the municipalities, through delegated admini.strative entities, have
the implicit power to control water pollution under D.S. No. 22964, article 12, i), mentioned in the
previous paragraph.
161.  Parameters ta control water pollution caused by industrial disdiarges are contained  in the
Regulations for Disposal of Industrial Waste into Bodies of Water, Ministerial Resolution No. 010185.
These regulations determine the following priorities for water use: human consumption, conservation of
biodiversity, recreation, irrigation, industrial use, and waste discharge. Under these provisions a body
of water could be destined to more than one type of use and thterefore bodies of water are classified based
25



upon their intended use in 5 categories:i. The regulations contain a table that provides tie physico-
chemical and biological parameters to classify bodies of water in any of the categories mentioned and all
|             ilndustries (including the mining industries) have to treat their effluents.
162.   Ministerial Resolution No. 010/85 asserts the duty of all industries to register their effluents and
file a declaration (certiricado de conocimiento) detailing the expected eMuents and the proposed
treatment. Filing should be done prior to registration of discharges with the Ministry of Exportation and
Economic Competitiveness (MECE) or the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy (MMM). Registration of
all discharges should have been done within a specific period of time: two years for all existing
industries, one year for industries being installed, and three monthS for all new industries.
163.   Based on the declaration, the competent organism (although it does not say which one, it is safe
to believe that it refers either to the MUA or the RDC) should issue an authorization for discharges that
is a indispensable requisite for industries to obtain the operation permit from the municipalities or
prefecauras, or other competent organisms, such as the water enterprises.
164.  The system  seems to be quite clear but compliance with the regulations by the mentioned
institutions is partial. In fact, none of the mentioned procedures, regarding the MUA or the MMM have
ever been applied, although at the local level treatment of water, monitoring and control by the local
water enterprises (i.e. SEMAPA, SAGUAPAC) is done on a regular basis. The cities of Santa Cruz,
Tarija and Cochabamba treat some of their domestic and industrial waste waters. It seems then, that the
water enterprises or other administrative entities have established their own procedures and regulations
via municipal ordinances to implement water pollution control caused by the industry.
165.   A thorough explanation of the scope, modality and effectiveness of every system is included in
the corresponding technical sections of this report.
23             B.2.  Solid Waste
166.  This subject is already analyzed previously. Regarding compliance its seems that in most cases
municipalities directly, by contract or through administrative entities, are managing solid waste, but
generally wastes are not segregated, therefore industrial waste is not subject to a special treatment and
most of the sites are dumps and do not qualify as sanitary landfills. Waste of industries located in rural
areas is generally disposed of by the industry itself.
167.  The Ministry of Urban Affairs is sponsoring a study of several cities to look at improving
municipal waste management facilities and possibly privatizing them. Some cities are participating in this
II     Special Class    Human consumption without prevous tretrnent
Class A        Human consumption alter treatment. irrigation of vegetale. and recreation
(ewimnuing1.
Class B         Human consumption alter intensive treatment, animal consuption (cattle) and
conservation of biodivetsity.
Class C        Human consumption after special treatment, irrigation, recreation (navigetiornL and
energy production.
I1                           Class 0        Transportation and waste disposal.
26



study (i.e. Cochabamba) because they would like to cap the parts of their dumps that have been used,
upgrade them to be sanitary landfills, recycle waste and renovate most of the equipment.
C.    Supporting institutions
C.I.  Within Bolivia
168.  Tbe late Ministry of Industries, currently Ministry of Exportation and Economic Competitiveness,
used to handle a industry register with the purpose of maintaining a data base and also to exercise some
co)ntrol measurements. This register was created in 1954, but since 1985, along with the new economic
governmental policy, it has been quite inactive to the point that the GOB has decided to diminate it.
169.  Currently, MECE administers a Register of Commerce and Corporations, all companies
incorporated in Bolivia mitst register themselves. MECE would be incorporating to tle same procedure
what is called a Individual Corporative Register (Registro Unico Empresarial), that would be a section
to obtain sectorial inrciranation regarding the existing industry in Bolivia, in order to perform ex-post facto
evaluations of the ministry's pi)licy.
170.  Industries presently do not have to register compulsory with one of the existing chambers either,
but it is expected that they would, although it largely pendens on the ability of the chambers to attract
new members. The Chambers have been playing a very important role within the process to control
industrial pollution. There are both a National Chamber of Industry and departmental ciambers. The
National Chamber has created a Committee of Environmental Affairs and it has been participating with
SENMA in the analysis a draft of regulations to control industrial pollution.
171.  MECE under its mandate has to encourage industrial growth and development and it has been
understood that under this mandate, it is implicit, the competence of MECE to regulate, control, prevent
and monitor pollution caused by the industry. Thus, MECE has worked in the past in preparing some
regulations, for example to control and measure the emissinns produce by vehicles that run with diesel.
172.  Currently, MECE is giving the final touches to a draft decree, to be promulgated by the
President, to create the Bolivian Institute of Norms and Quality (!BNORCA), which would be in charge
of:
- regulations quality of products;
- issuing permits regarding quality of products;
- regulating characteristics of packaging, measurements, etc.;
- preparing standards to control environmental quality related to the industry (water, soil and air); and
- registering qualified test laboratories.
173.  MECE expects this private institution, of which executive Committee MECE would be a member,
lo assume control of all environmental aspects related to the industrial sector. IBNORCA would prepare
die proposed standards and the MECE would enact them througih ministerial resolution. MECE expects
j            SENMA to participate in some of the technical committees to be created within IBNORCA to discuss the
proposed standards.
174.  Obviously, the creation of this institution should be analyzed in light of the mandate that the
National Environmental Law imposes into SENMA and the impact that this could produce in the general
27
4R



planning that SENMA has been doing.
C.2.  Foreign assistance
175.  The World Bank through the ETAP project would be financing the most important project in ihis
area and there are not currently other projects in preparation, besides a project that the municipality of
La Paz is negotiating with the Japanese government to clean and preserve the Choqueyapu river.
I
-I
I
J
I
29



IV. FINAL RECOMMENDATIONS
176.  This document analyzes in general the sectorial management of natural resources and protection
of the environment. It seems that a detailed analysis of every sector is required and therefore some
financial assistance should be channelized to complete this effort. The general recommendation is that
SENMA prepares a workshop with representatives of all public institutions in charge of management of
natural resources and environmental protection, in order to obtain a more clear cross-sectorial view of
the problems and also to strength the relationship of SENMA with those institutions.
177.  Regarding the institutional framework the general appreciation is that it lacks capacity, resources
and technical assistance, and most of all requires clear policies and definitions. The organizational chart
of every institution should be carefully analyzed and its personnel should be evaluated. It is clear that
SENMA is already making some efforts in that direction, but this is a task that requires full cooperation
and participation of all the other institutions in charge of management of natural resources.
178.  Concerning monitoring, it is very limited in the country and there is general lack of reliable data
in order to conduct monitoring activities. Information systems must be strengthened and personnel needs
to be trained for this purpose.
179.  Economic incentives for environmental protection, sustainable management of natural resources
and pollution prevention and control are non-existent. Government credit for agriculture and forestry is
v.y limited and all credit is also scarce. It is of course necessary, as part of the national strategy for
environmental protection, to define a national policy for economic incentives from a general perspective
and also for every sector.
180.  The legal framework should be revised and up-dated entirely. An effort to compile all existing
information and produce a complete assessment of the impact of the current legislation over the
environment should be supported. It is absolutely necessary to evaluate with a holistic approach all
programs and efforts implemented by the goverrmnent in the past decade to be able to prepare and
promulgate new legislation.
181.  Some efforts have already been directed by SENMA  to collect the existing legislation.
Nevertheless, this consultant hasn't been able to identify any document that analyzes overlaps and lack
of appropriate regulations and that concludes clearly which regulations have been overruled and therefore
which institution has a definitive mandate regarding management of a specific sector.
29



REVISED LEGISLATION
- Cddigo Civil (Civil Code).
- Cddigo de Minerfa (Mining Code), Ley No. 1243, April 1991.
- Cddigo Penal (Penal Code).
- C6digo de Procedimiento Civil (Code of Civil Procedure).
- Cddigo de Procedimiento Penal (Code of Penal Procedure).
- C6digo de Salud (Health Code), 197B.
- Constituci6n Polftica del Estado (Constitution of Bolivia), 1967.
- Ley de Reforma Agraria en Bolivia (Law of Agrarian Reform), Decreto Ley No. 3464, 1953.
- Ley de Reforma Urbana, Decreto Ley No. 3819, 1954.
- Ley General de Sociedades Cooperativas de Bolivia, September 1958.
- Ley General del Trabajo de 1942
- Ley de Administraci6n y Control Gubernamentales (Law of Administration and Gubernamental
Control), No. 1178, 1990.
- Ley de las Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollo, Decreto Supremo No. 15307, February 1978.
- Ley de los Pueblos Indfgenas del Oriente y la Amazonfa (Law of dhe Indigenous Communities of the
Aniazonian Region), No. 22612, 1990.
- Ley de Hidrocarburos (Law of Hydrocarbons), No. 1194, 1990.
- Ley de Medio Ambiente (Environmental Law), Ley No. 1333, April 1992.
- Ley Electoral, Ley No. 857, 1986.
- Ley General Forestal (Forestry Law), No. 11686, 1974.
- Ley de Organizaci6n Judicial (Organic Law of the Judicial Branch), Decreto Ley No. 10267, 1972.
- Ley Organizativa del Poder Ejecutivo, Decreto Ley No. 10460, September 1972.
- Ley OrgWnica de las Municipalidades (Organic Law of Municipalities), 1985.
30



- Polfticas de Accion para Consolidar la Estabilidad y Promover el Crecimiento Econdmico, el Empleo.
el Desarrollo Social y la Modernizacifn del Estado, Decreto Supremo No. 22407, January 1990.
- Proyecto de Ley de Conservaci6n de la Diversidad Biologica, October 1992.
- Proyecto de Ley General de Aguas, 1990.
- Proyecto de Ley General de Recursos Hrdricos, 1989.
I            - Proyecto de Ley Forestal, 1992.
- Proyecto Sustitutivo de la Ley de Aguas, 1992.
- Reglamento sobre el lanzamiento de Desechos Industriales en Cuerpos de Agua (Standards regarding
water effluents originated by the industry), 1990.
- Reglamento de la Pausa Ecol6gica Historica del Sector Forestaa, No. 22884, 1991.
|          - Reglamnento General para el Manejo de Residuos Solidos (General Regulations for Management of Solid
Waste), Decreto No. 14368, 1977.
|          - Reglamento de Aguas (Waler Regulations), 1906.
I
I
I
1                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31.



APPENDIX No. 2
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Bolivia,
concerning the establishment of an Enterprise for the Americas Environmental Account at the National
3            Fund for the Environment.
Analysis of the Agreements signed by tde Government of the United States of America and the
Government of Bolivia, related to the establishment of a Fund to manage the resources coming from the
Debt Forgiveness Program under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative.
Bibliograffa Boliviana de Ecologfa, 1989.
Bolivia's National Fund for the Environment, FONAMA, November 1991.
Bolivia: SecreAarfa Nacional de Medio Ambiente, Ministerio de Minerla y Metalurgia, Swedish
Environmental System, December. 1992.
* |          Canjes de Deuda Externa por Programas Ambientales en Bolivia, FONAMA.
Eskeland Gunnar S., Jimenez Emmanuel, Choosing Policy Instruments for Pollution Control, March,
1991.
De la Ecologfa a la Polftica, Glosario de Tlrminos, LIDEMA, 1992.
El Estado del Medio Ambiente en Bolivia, Propuestas de Polfticas y Program5ticas.
Heinrich, Freddy B., Eguivar, Mario Ricardo, El Medio Ambiente en la Legislaci6n Boliviana, 1574-
1991, 1991.
Enterprise for the Americas Initiative Act of 1992.
Eskeland, Gunnar S. and Jim6nez, Emmanuel, Choosing Policy Instruments for Pollution Control, A
Review, The World Bank, March, 1991
Esquema Fondo Nacional para el Medio Ambiente (FONAMA), Bolivia, 1992.
Estatuto Organico de la Secretarfa Nacional del Medio Ambiente, SENMA, 1992.
Explanation of Environmental Mechanism for EIA Debt Reduction, 1992.
FONAMA, Estatutos, October 1992.
3           FONAMA, Memoria Anual, August 1991, July 1992.
32
l1
i



League for the Defense of the Environment, LIDEMA, 1990.
Valencia Vega, Alipio, Manual de Derecho Constitucional, 1989.
Planteamientos, Polfticas y Acciones para Ia Gesti6n Ambiental, FONAMA, SepLember 1992.
--           Procedure for elaboration of a General Environmental Law, Bolivia, 1991.
i            Programa Nacional de Cooperacion lecnica, 1992-1996, Gobierno de Bolivia, 1992.
ProyecLo de Ley de Medio de Ambiente, Chile, Septmber, 1992.
*          Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6u del Sector Minero, Ministerio de Minerfa y Metalurgia, Asislencia Tecnica
Sueca 1990-1992.
I          Que Camino Debemos Andar..., Secretarfa General del Medio Ambiente, Plan de Acci6n Ambiental de
Bolivia,
Quintela, Carlos E., Bolivia's National Fund for the Environment, A joint public/private effort to
organize the investment in the environrent, FONAMA, November, 1991.
Resumen de las Negociaciones y del Acuerdo de la Iniciativa para las Americas firmando entre el
Gobierno de Bolivia y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Anerica, FONAMA.
Taller National de Planificaci6n Ambiental: Polfticas Nacionales de Gesti6n Ambiental, Cochabamba,
Bolivia, August 19-21, 1992.
The Republic of Bolivia, 1992 Debt Reduction Program, August 28, 19.92.
I
I



