Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2805-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Environment, Industry and Mining Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 28, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2805-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) a 
loan (the NDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to SDR 5,000,000 to assist in financing 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NDF Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and NDF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced 
in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations.".
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BCB" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de Bolivia);
 
(b)
"COMIBOL" means the Borrower's Mining Corporation (Corporacion Minera de 
Bolivia) established pursuant to Decree No. 3196 (Decreto Supremo No. 3196) of the 
Borrower dated October 2, 1952;
(c)
"ECU" means the environmental coordinating unit referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Eligible Subproject" means a specific project, acceptable to the 
Association, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, 
consisting of investments, including, inter alia, the carrying out of works, the 
acquisition and utilization of goods and/or
the provision of training, for the remediation of pollution stocks from mines or 
located on mines' sites, owned or controlled by COMIBOL or to be transferred by 
COMIBOL to the private sector;
(e)
"Execution Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)
"IBNORCA" means the Bolivian Institute of Standardization and Quality 
(Instituto Boliviano de Normalizacion y Calidad);
(g)
"Laboratory Upgrading Program" means a specific program, acceptable to 
the Association, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual, consisting of the carrying out of works, the acquisition and utilization of 
goods and/or the provision of technical assistance and training, to improve the 
quality of laboratory testing services in Bolivia;
(h)
"MED" means the Ministry of Economic Development (Ministerio de 
Desarrollo Economico) of the Borrower;
(i)
"MSDE" means the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment 
(Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y del Medio Ambiente) of the Borrower;
(j)
"Municipality" means an entity with juridical personality established 
pursuant to Law No. 696;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satisfactory to the 
Association (adopted by the Borrower), which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the 
eligibility criteria for, and procedures to approve, Eligible Subprojects; (ii) the 
terms and conditions of a model Execution Agreement; (iii) the terms and conditions of 
a model Service Agreement; (iv) the eligibility criteria for, and procedures to 
approve, Laboratory Upgrading Programs (under Part B of the Project); (v) the criteria 
for the selection of Municipalities under Part C.2 of the Project; and (vi) the 
Project monitoring indicators, as such manual may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association;
(l)
"SCU" means the sectoral coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) (i) of this Agreement;
(m)
"SEU" means the sectoral environmental unit referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Sectoral Policy Letter" means the letter from the Borrower to the 
Association, acceptable to the Association, which sets forth the Borrower's policy on 
Page  3
environmental liability in the mining sector, to be furnished to the Association as 
provided in Section 6.01 (e) of this
Agreement, as such letter may be amended with the agreement of the Association;
(o)
"Service Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement;
(p)
"SOM" means the Secretariat of Mines within MED;
 
(q)
"Special Accounts" means collectively Special Account "A" and Special 
Account "B";
(r)
"Special Account 'A' " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(s)
"Special Account 'B' " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(t)
"State-Owned Entity" means COMIBOL or any other entity with juridical 
personality which is owned or controlled by the Borrower; and
(u)
"Technical Entity" means the Institute of Geological Research (Instituto 
de Investigaciones Geologicas-(IIG)) or the Institute of Ecology (Instituto de 
Ecologia-(IE)) within the University of San Andres) or IBNORCA.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR7,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars in BCB: (i) a special deposit account (the Special Account "A") for purposes 
of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit for Parts A and B of the 
Project; and (ii) a  special deposit account (the Special Account "B") for purposes of 
depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit for Parts C and D of the Project, 
both on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account "A" and the Special Account "B" shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement,
respectively.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2006 and ending November 1, 2035.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid.  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  (a) The Minister of MSDE (or such other person or persons as such 
Minister shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect 
to Parts A and B of the Project;  and (b) the Minister of MED (or such person or 
persons as such Minister shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts C and D of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Part A of the Project through MSDE; (ii) carry out Part B of the Project: 
(A) through MSDE; and/or (B) through MSDE, pursuant to Service Agreements (the Service 
Agreements) as referred to in paragraph (b) below; (iii) carry out Part C.1 of the 
Project through SOM pursuant to execution agreements (the Execution Agreements) as 
referred to in paragraph (c) below; and (iv) carry out Parts C.2 and D of the Project, 
through SOM, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, financial, administrative, environmental and ecological practices, and in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (ii) (B) above, and 
in order to enable the Borrower, through MSDE, to carry out Laboratory Upgrading 
Programs (under Part B of the Project) for the benefit of the Technical Entities, the 
Borrower, through MSDE, shall assign to the corresponding Technical Entity, on a grant 
basis, the proceeds of the Credit allocated to finance the respective Laboratory 
Upgrading Program under a Service Agreement to be entered into between
Page  5
the Borrower, through MSDE, and such Technical Entity under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in the Operational Manual.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (iii) above and in 
order to enable the Borrower, through SOM, to carry out Eligible Subprojects (under 
Part C.1 of the Project), the Borrower shall assign to COMIBOL, on a grant basis, the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to finance the respective Eligible Subproject under 
an Execution Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through SOM, and 
COMIBOL under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, inter 
alia, the obligation of SOM: (A) to carry out such Eligible Subproject for the benefit 
of COMIBOL; and (B) follow the policy referred to in the Sectoral Policy Letter in the 
carrying out of such Eligible Subproject.
(d)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
not amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce any 
Execution Agreement or any provision thereof; (ii) not amend, assign, abrogate, 
terminate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce any Service Agreement or any provision 
thereof; and (iii) not amend or abrogate the Sectoral Policy Letter.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a)  The Borrower shall establish within MSDE and thereafter 
operate and maintain during Project implementation, an environmental coordinating unit 
(the ECU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility to
assist MSDE in coordinating and monitoring the implementation of Parts A and B of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the ECU is at all times headed by a 
coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications and terms 
of employment acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a)  The Borrower shall establish within SOM, and  thereafter 
operate and maintain: (i) a sectoral coordinating unit (the SCU); and (ii) a sectoral 
environmental unit (the SEU), all with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Association, including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist SOM in 
coordinating and monitoring the implementation of Parts C and D of the Project (in the 
case of the SCU) and in overseeing and administering environmental
policies in the mining sector (in the case of the SEU).
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the SCU and SEU are at all times headed 
each by a coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and terms of employment satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association not 
later than January 31 and July 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting 
in July 1996 semiannual reports of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
may reasonably request concerning the progress in the implementation of the Project 
during the preceding calendar semester.
Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association not later 
than October 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, an 
annual implementation plan of such scope and in such detail as the Association may 
reasonably request with respect to the amount of counterpart funds required for, and 
the activities to be carried out under the Project during, the calendar year following 
the date of presentation of such plan; and (b) carry out such action plan in 
Page  6
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.08. (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall review jointly with the Association not later 
than March 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, the 
progress made by the Borrower in: (i) achieving the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) carrying out the Project.  Such review shall inter alia, focus on discussing the 
pertinent reports and the implementation plan referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of 
this Agreement, respectively.  As part of such review, the Association may require 
that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to make 
adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, the Borrower shall furnish such action 
plan to the Association not later than thirty days after the conclusion of such review 
and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in 
accordance with its terms.
(b)
The Borrower shall participate in a Project implementation mid-term 
review to be held with the Association as part of the annual review to be held not 
later than March 31, 1998.
Section 3.09.  In the event that an environmental assessment of a potential 
Eligible Subproject determines that such Eligible Subproject, if carried out, would 
have in the opinion of the Association a potential negative environmental impact, the 
Borrower shall not approve such Eligible Subproject until appropriate actions, 
satisfactory to the Association, have been undertaken by the Borrower to mitigate such 
potential negative impact.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of Special Account "A" and 
Special Account "B" was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  7
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) below:
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan 
(including the NDF Loan) or grant made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
corresponding agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)
any such loan (including the NDF Loan) shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
paragraph (a) above shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreements (including the NDF Loan Agreement); and (ii) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the ECU has been duly established, including the appointment of such 
unit's coordinator, as provided in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower;
 
(c)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the NDF Loan 
Agreement or the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(d)
that the SCU and SEU have: (i) been duly established; and (ii) employed 
staff, including the appointment of the coordinator for each unit as provided in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)
that the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Sectoral Policy 
Letter.
Section 6.02.  The date June 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03  of the General Conditions.
Page  8
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
Centro de Comunicaciones, Piso No. 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Cossio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                     Credit               % of
                                    Allocated         Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in           to be
          Category               SDR Equivalent)        Financed
Page  9
(1)      Goods:
         (a) for ECU                  70,000          100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost);
                                                      and 84% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
         (b) for SCU                  30,000          100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost);
                                                      and 84% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
         (c) under Part B          200,000            100% of foreign
             of the Project                           expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost); and
                                                      84% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
         (d) under Part C.1        120,000            100% of foreign
             of the Project                           expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost); and
                                                      84% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
         (e) under Part D           20,000            100% of foreign
             of the Project                           expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost); and
                                                      84% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
(2)      Works:
         (a) under Part            300,000            84%
             of the Project
         (b) under Part C.1      3,690,000            84%
             of the Project
(3)      Consultants' Services:
         (a) under Part A           70,000            100%
             of the Project
         (b) under Part B          730,000            100%
             of the Project
         (c) under Part C.2        130,000            100%
             of the Project
         (d) under Part D          270,000            100%
             of the Project
Page  10
         (e) for ECU                30,000            100%
         (f) for SCU               330,000            100%
(4)      Training:
         (a) under Part A           20,000            100%
             of the Project
         (b) under Part B           20,000            100%
             of the Project
         (c) under Part C.1         20,000            100%
             of the Project
         (d) under Part D           50,000            100%
             of the Project
(5)      Incremental Operating
         Costs:
         (a) for ECU               530,000            85% until
                                                      withdrawals under
                                                      Category 5 (a) have
                                                      reached an aggregate
                                                      amount equivalent to
                                                      SDR 270,000; 56%
                                                      until withdrawals
                                                      under Category 5
                                                      (a) have reached an
                                                      aggregate amount
                                                      equivalent to SDR
                                                      400,000; and 28%
                                                      thereafter
         (b) for SCU              300,000             85% until
                                                      withdrawals under
                                                      Category 5 (b) have
                                                      reached an aggregate
                                                      amount equivalent to
                                                      until withdrawals
                                                      under Category 5 (b)
                                                      have reached an
                                                      aggregate amount
                                                      equivalent to SDR
                                                      230,000; and 28%
                                                      thereafter
(6)      Unallocated             470,000
             TOTAL             7,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures made in 
connection with the operation of the ECU and the SCU under the Project, including, 
inter alia, salaries of staff, office rent, office materials and supplies, utilities, 
maintenance of equipment and travel costs; and
(d)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' 
services) made in connection with the training activities under the Project, including 
the travel cost and per diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  11
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR400,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (3) (b), (3) (c), 
(3) (d), (3) (e), (3) (f), (4) (a), (4) (b), (4) (d), (5) (a) and (5) (b) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after October 31, 1995;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under each Eligible Subproject (under 
Categories (1) (d), (2) (b) and (4) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule) 
unless: (i) the Association has approved such Eligible Subproject; and (ii) the 
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association that the corresponding 
Execution Agreement has been entered into between the respective parties as provided 
in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under each Laboratory Upgrading Program 
(under Categories (1) (c), (2) (a), (3) (b) and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule) unless: (i) the Association has approved such Laboratory Upgrading 
Program; and (ii) the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association 
that the corresponding Service Agreement has been entered into between the respective 
parties as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c), (2) (a), (3) 
(a), (3) (b), (4) (a) and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless 
the Borrower has employed consultants, satisfactory to the Association, to assist the 
ECU in the carrying out of its functions and responsibilities; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (d), (1) (e), (2) 
(b), (3) (d), (4) (c) and (4) (d) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless 
the Borrower has employed consultants, satisfactory to the Association, to assist the 
SCU in the carrying out of its functions and responsibilities.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
(other than specialized laboratory equipment under Part B of the Project) costing the 
equivalent of $150,000 or less with the exception of the first  contract to be awarded 
under Part C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement by the ECU or the SCU, 
as the case may be; (b) contracts for specialized laboratory equipment (under Part B 
of the Project) costing $50,000 equivalent or less; (c) contracts for works costing 
the equivalent of $500,000 or less with the exception of the first contract for works 
to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement by the 
ECU or the SCU, as the case may be; (d) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants costing less than $10,000 equivalent; and (f) Training and 
Incremental Operating Costs as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the regulatory framework of 
the mining and industrial sectors in Bolivia with respect to the environment, and 
support the implementation of such improved framework; (b) to assist the Borrower in 
the remediation of pollution stocks in the mining sector; and (c) to assist 
Municipalities in obtaining financial resources to improve environmental conditions 
and alleviate poverty in the mining communities located within the jurisdiction of 
such Municipalities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Regulatory Framework
 
1.
Design and implementation of data collection systems that will supply 
environmental information to the Borrower's general environmental management 
information system in order to identify, inter alia, the mines and other industries 
with a potential negative environmental impact, including the provision of training 
required therefor.
Page  12
2.
Design and implementation of a strategy to monitor the quality of water in river 
basins in Bolivia, including, inter alia, the La Paz-El Alto and Altiplano river 
basins and the catchments of Rio Grande de Guapay and Rio Pirai (in Santa Cruz), the 
catchment of Rio Rocha (in Cochabamba) and the catchment of Rio Alja Mayo and Rio 
Pilcomayo (in Potosi), including the provision of training required therefor.
3.
Carrying out of an evaluation of the potential costs and benefits of measures to 
prevent pollution in Bolivia, including, inter alia, in leather-tanning, meat 
processing and brick-making operations, sugar refineries, breweries and distilleries 
and cement plants.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Borrower in order to 
assist MSDE and MED in the development and implementation of policies and procedures 
to carry out environmental impact assessments in Bolivia.
5.
Design of a system of incentives to prevent or reduce pollution in mines and 
other industries in Bolivia, including the provision of training required for the 
implementation of such system.
6.
Design and implementation of a system to finance remediation of pollution stocks 
from mines or located on mine sites under the responsibility of the Borrower or 
State-Owned Entities in Bolivia, including the provision of training required 
therefor.
7.
Identification of hazardous waste sources and characterization of hazardous 
waste, and thereafter, design and implementation of a framework to regulate the 
treatment of such hazardous waste, including the provision of training required to 
implement such framework.
8.
Carrying out of a review of the ambient quality and discharge standards for the 
mining and industrial sectors, and thereafter, if necessary, improvement of such 
standards, including the provision of training required to apply such improved 
standards.
9.
Design and implementation of a strategy to monitor and enforce environmental 
laws and regulations in Bolivia, including the provision of training required 
therefor.
10.
Design and implementation of a strategy to convey information to the public in 
Bolivia concerning environmental and health risks in the mining and other industrial 
sectors, including the provision of training required therefor.
Part B:
Laboratory Upgrading
 
Carrying out of Laboratory Upgrading Programs.
Part C:
Remediation Investments
 
1.
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects.
 
2.
Provision of technical assistance to Municipalities(to be selected in accordance 
with the criteria set forth inthe Operational Manual) in obtaining financial resources 
to improve environmental conditions and alleviate poverty in the mining communities 
located within the jurisdiction of such Municipalities. 
Part D:
Environmental Management in the Mining Sector
 
Strengthening of MED's environmental management capacity in the mining sector 
(including the acquisition and utilization of goods and the provision of training 
required therefor) through: (a) the design of engineering plans for remediation of 
pollution stocks (including Eligible Subprojects) in mines or mines sites owned by the 
Borrower or State-Owned Entities; (b) the design and implementation of monitoring 
programs that would collect data on ambient air, water, soil and health conditions; 
(c) the design and dissemination of guidelines to enable mine operators to comply with 
environmental regulations; (d) the design of procedures to be followed in connection 
with the issuance of mine permits, inspection of mines, enforcement of environmental 
regulations and closure and reclamation of mine sites; and (e) the carrying out of 
hydrological studies in COMIBOL's mines (including those mines to be benefitted by the 
carrying out of Eligible Subprojects) which will be closed or be subject to private 
participation.
Page  13
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $150,000 each and 
$3,000,000 each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Specialized laboratory equipment under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost 
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$200,000, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Goods (other than specialized laboratory equipment under Part B of the 
Project) estimated to cost more than $25,000 equivalent but not exceeding $150,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent but not exceeding 
$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$5,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works under Part C.2 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
3.
National or International Shopping
 
(a)
Goods (other than specialized laboratory equipment under Part B of the 
Project) estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Specialized laboratory equipment under Part B of the Project estimated to 
Page  14
cost the equivalent of $25,000 equivalent or more but not exceeding $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Specialized laboratory equipment under Part B of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,700,000, may be procured under lump sum, fixed 
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part 
B of this Section; (b) each contract for specialized laboratory equipment to be 
awarded under Part C.1 of this Section; (c) the first contract for goods to be awarded 
under Part C.2 (a) of this Section by the ECU or the SCU, as the case may be; and (d) 
the first contract for works to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of this Section by the 
ECU or the SCU, as the case may be, and each contract for works estimated to cost more 
than $500,000 equivalent under such Part, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
Page  15
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$10,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding and the Employment of 
Consultants
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section 
I of this Schedule:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
 
2.
The award of goods and civil works contracts will be based exclusively on price 
and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
 
5.
Where there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined to be not responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications, (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.
 
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
 
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used. 
 
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower's agencies or of any 
State-Owned Entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred 
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection 
process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.14 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite 
for participating in the selection process.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Registro 
Nacional de Consultoria (National Registry of Consultants) or any other registry as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection process.
Page  16
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account "A"
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (1) (c), (2) 
(a), (3) (a), (3) (b), (3) (e), 4 (a), (4) (b) and 5 (a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account "A" 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account "A" shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account "A" has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account "A" shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account "A" such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account "A", the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account "A" at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account "A" such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account "A" for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account "A", the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account "A":
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  17
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account "A";
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Parts A and B of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to Parts A and B of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the Project shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account "A" as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account "A": (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account "A" (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account "A" shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account "A" will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account "A".
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account "B"
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(b), (1)(d), (1)(e), 
(2)(b), (3)(c), (3)(d), (3)(f), (4)(c), (4)(d) and (5)(b) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts C and D of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account "B" 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $900,000.
Page  18
2.
Payments out of the Special Account "B" shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures, in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account "B" has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account "B" shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account "B" such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account "B", the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account "B" at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account "B" such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account "B" for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account "B", the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account "B":
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account "B";
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Parts C and D of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to Parts C and D of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts C and D of the Project shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account "B" as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  19
of the Special Account "B": (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account "B" (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account "B" shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account "B" will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account "B".
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
