Page  1
January 27, 1998
His Excellency 
Edgar Millares 
Minister of Finance 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:
Environment, Industry and Mining Project (Cr. 2805 - BO)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Credit Agreement for the above captioned Project, as 
amended.
I am pleased to advise you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions of the subject, the Association has agreed to amend the Credit Agreement 
as follows, so as to include COMIBOL as executing agency of the Remediation 
Investments under Part C of the Project, redefine the activities under the 
responsibility of VMMM, and reflect the corresponding administrative, technical and 
financial arrangements.
1.
Section 1.02 (e) is amended to read as follows:  
"(e)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement;".
2.
Section 1.02 (i) is amended to read as follows:  
"(i)
"MDSP" means the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning 
(Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Planificación) of the Borrower;".
Consequently, all references to "MSDE" are replaced by references to "MDSP".
3.
Section 1.02 (k) is amended to read as follows:
"(k)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satisfactory to 
the Association, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria 
for, and procedures to approve, remediation investments under Part C of the 
Project; (ii) the terms and conditions of a model Service Agreement; (iii) the 
eligibility criteria for, and procedures to approve, Laboratory Upgrading 
Programs; (iv) the criteria for the selection of Municipalities under Part E 
of the Project; (v) the criteria for the selection of eligible expenditures by 
SERGEOMIN, under Part D.3 of the Project; and (vi) the Project monitoring 
indicators, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the 
Association.".
4.
Section 1.02 (o) is amended to read as follows: 
"(o)
"Service Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Sections 3.01(b) and (d) of this Agreement;".
5.
Section 1.02 (p) is amended to read as follows:
"(p)
"VMMM means the Vice Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy, within 
MED;"
Consequently, all references to "SOM" are replaced by references to "VMMM".
6.
New Sections 1.02 (v) and (x) are added to read as follows:  
"(v)
‘EU’ means the environmental unit referred in Section 3.05 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(x)
‘SERGEOMIN’ means Servicio Nacional de Geología y Minería, the 
Borrower’s national geological and mining service.".
Page  2
7.
Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
"(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars in BCB: (i) a special deposit account (the Special Account 
"A") for purposes of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit for 
Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii) a special deposit account (the Special 
Account "B") for purposes of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the 
Credit for Parts C, D and E of the Project, both on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account "A" and the Special Account "B" shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement, respectively.".
8.
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows:  
"Section 2.09.  (a) The Minister of MDSP (or such other person or 
persons as such Minister shall appoint in writing) is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement 
and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A and B of the 
Project; (b) the Minister of MED (or such person or persons as such Minister 
shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts D and E of the Project; and (c) the President 
of 
COMIBOL (or such person or persons as such President shall appoint in 
writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for purposes of 
taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with 
respect to Part C of the Project".
9.
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, shall carry out:
(i)
Parts A and B of the Project through MDSP; 
(ii)
Part C of the Project through COMIBOL; and
(iii)
Parts D and E of the Project through VMMM, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
financial, administrative, environmental and ecological practices, and in accordance 
with the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, and 
in order to enable the Borrower, through MDSP, to carry out Laboratory 
Upgrading Programs (under Part B of the Project) for the benefit of the 
Technical Entities, the Borrower, through MDSP, shall assign to the 
corresponding Technical Entity, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to finance the respective Laboratory Upgrading Program under a 
Service Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through MDSP, and 
such Technical Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including those set forth in the Operational Manual.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with COMIBOL, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of transferring, 
on a 
grant basis, the proceeds of the Credit allocated to finance the 
execution of Part C of the Project, such agreement to include, inter alia, the 
obligation of COMIBOL: (A) to carry out Eligible Subprojects; and (B) strictly 
abide 
by the Borrower’s environmental policies in the carrying out of such 
Eligible Subprojects.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, and 
in order to enable the Borrower, through VMMM, to carry out the generation of 
baseline environmental data (under Part D.3 of the Project), the Borrower, 
through VMMM, shall assign to SERGEOMIN, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the 
Credit 
allocated to finance such Part of the Project under a Service Agreement 
to be entered 
into between the Borrower, through VMMM, and SERGEOMIN under 
terms and 
Page  3
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those set 
forth in the 
Operational Manual.
(e)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) not amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, suspend, waive or 
fail 
to enforce any Service Agreement or any provision thereof; and (ii) not amend, 
assign, abrogate, terminate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.".
10.
Section 3.05 is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish within VMMM, and 
thereafter operate and maintain: (i) a sectoral coordinating unit (the SCU); 
and (ii) a sectoral environmental unit (the SEU), all with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility to assist VMMM in coordinating and monitoring the 
implementation of Parts D and E of the Project (in the case of the SCU) and in 
overseeing and administering environmental policies in the mining sector (in 
the case of the SEU).
(b)
Pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, the 
Borrower shall ensure that COMIBOL establishes, and thereafter operates and 
maintains, an environmental unit (the EU) with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, the responsibility to 
coordinate and monitor the environmental matters related to the implementation 
of 
Part C of the Project, with the assistance of the SCU, and in furtherance 
of the Borrower’s environmental policies in the mining sector.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the SCU, SEU and EU are at all 
times headed each by a coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all 
with qualifications and terms of employment satisfactory to the Association.".
11.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in the 
Attachment to this Letter.
12.
Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows: 
"(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures made in 
connection with the operation of the ECU, EU and the SCU under the Project, 
including, inter alia, salaries of staff, office rent, office 
materials 
and supplies, utilities, maintenance of equipment and travel costs; and"
13.
Paragraphs 3 (b), (c) and(d) of Schedule 1 are amended to read as follows: 
"(b)
payments made for expenditures under each Eligible Subproject 
(under Categories 1 (b) and 2 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule) unless the Association has approved such Eligible Subproject;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under each Laboratory Upgrading 
Program (under Categories 1 (c), 2 (a), 3 (b) and 4 (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule) unless: (i) the Association has approved such 
Laboratory Upgrading Program; and (ii) the Borrower has furnished evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the corresponding Service Agreement has 
been entered into between the respective parties as provided in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (c), 2 (a), 3 
(a), 3 (b), 4 (a) and 4 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
unless the Borrower has employed consultants, satisfactory to the Association, 
to 
assist the ECU in the carrying out of its functions and responsibilities.
14.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
"4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) 
contracts for goods (other than specialized laboratory equipment under Part B 
of the 
Project) costing the equivalent of $150,000 or less with the exception 
of the first 
contract to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of Section I of 
Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement by the ECU or the EU or the SCU, as the case may 
be; (b) contracts 
for specialized laboratory equipment (under Part B of the 
Project) costing 
$50,000 equivalent or less; (c) contracts for works costing 
the 
equivalent of $500,000 or less with the exception of the first contract 
for 
Page  4
works to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement by the ECU or the EU, as the case may be; (d) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than 
$10,000 equivalent; and (f) Training and Incremental Operating Costs as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.".
15.
Part C of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
"Part C:
Remediation Investments
1.
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects.
2.
Carrying out of feasibility and preparatory studies for Eligible 
Subprojects.
3.
Training under Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project.
4.
Development of information systems for the environmental management of 
COMIBOL operations.".
16.
Part D of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
"Part D:
Environmental Management in the Mining Sector
Strengthening of VMMM’s environmental management capacity in the mining sector, 
through:
1.
preparation and dissemination of technical guidelines to enable mining 
operators to comply with the Borrower’s environmental policies;
2.
computer processing of environmental impact assessments and environmental 
permits;
3.
generation of base-line environmental data;
4.
provision of environmental training to staff of mining operators and the 
Borrower’s authorities involved in environmental matters of the mining sector;
5.
preparation of specific prevention and control programs in different 
regions and mining sub-sectors in the territory of the Borrower; and
6.
introduction of environmental management systems in the Borrower’s mining 
sector.".
17.
A new Part E of Schedule 2 is added to read as follows:
"Part E: 
Technical Assistance to Municipalities 
"Provision of technical assistance to Municipalities (to be selected in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual) in obtaining 
financial resources to improve environmental conditions and alleviate poverty 
in the 
mining communities located within the jurisdiction of each 
Municipality.".
18.
Part D.2 of Schedule 3 is amended to read as follows: 
"2.
 Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be awarded 
under Part B of this Section; (b) each contract for specialized laboratory 
equipment to be awarded under Part C.1 of this Section; (c) the first contract 
for goods to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of this 
Section by the ECU or 
the EU or the SCU, as the case may be; and (d) the first contract for works to 
be 
awarded under Part C.2 (b) of this Section by the ECU or the EU, as the 
case 
may be, and each contract for works estimated to cost more than $500,000  equivalent 
under such Part, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.".
19.
Paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) of Schedule 5 are amended to read as follows:  
Page  5
"(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 
(c), 4 (c) and 5 (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts C, D and E of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and".
20.
Paragraph 5 (d) and the last subparagraph of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 is 
amended to read as follows: 
"(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for Parts C, D and E of the Project, less the amount of 
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts C, D and E of the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts C, D and E 
of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account "B" as of the date of such 
notice will 
be Utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective, as of December 9, 1997, 
once:
(a)
the Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter;
(b)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed by the respective parties 
and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
the related amendment letter to the NDF Loan Agreement, has been executed 
by the respective parties and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with 
its terms.
Because of their interest in this matter, I am forwarding copy of this letter to 
the Regional Manager of the Nordic Development Fund, the Vice-Minister of Mining and 
Metallurgy, and the President of COMIBOL.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Ernesto May 
Acting Director 
Country Management Unit 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru 
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By: /s/ Edgar Millares Ardaya
 Minister of Finance
Page  6
Date:
February 16, 1998
CC:
Regional Manager of the Nordic Development Fund, Vice-Minister of 
Mining and Metallurgy, and President of COMIBOL
Attachment
Amount of the
   Credit
% of
  Allocated
  Expenditures
(Expressed in
to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
     Financed
(1)
Goods:
(a)
for ECU
70,000 100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost);
and 84% of local
expenditures for 
items procured
locally      
(b)
for SCU
76,000 100% of foreign
and under
expenditures;
Parts C.1 and D
100% of local
of the Project
expenditures (ex-
factory cost);
and 84% of local
expenditures for
items procured
locally
(c)
under Part B     200,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and
84% of local
expenditures for
items procured 
locally
(2)
Works:
(a)
under Part B    300,000
84%
of the Project
(b)
under Part    3,159,000
84%
C.1 of the 
Project
(3)
Consultants' Services:
(a)
under Part A    365,000
100%
of the Project
(b)
under Part B    730,000
100%
of the Project
(c)
under Parts   1,751,000
100%
C.1, C.2, 
C.4, D and 
E of the 
Project, and for
SCU, EU and VMMM
Page  7
(e)
for ECU
    265,000
100%
(4)
Training:
(a) 
under Part A     20,000
100%
of the Project
(b)
under Part B     20,000
100%
of the Project
(c)
under Parts C.3, 
C.4 and D
     93,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Incremental Operating
Costs:
(a)
for ECU
 0
85%
(b)   for SCU, VMMM   99,000
85%
and EU
(6)
Unallocated
   252,000
TOTAL
 7,400,000
