Document of                       C  E :     0 F Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4038-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE II
December 6, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Divion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1   Nepalese Rupee (NRs) = US$0.076
13.2 NRs                   = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
Nepal Fiscal Year = July 16 to July 15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m     =   meter (3.28 feet)
km    =   kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha    =   hectare (2.47 acres)
Mm    =   million cubic meters (810.71 acre-feet)
m3     =   cubic meter (35.31 cubic feet)
ton   =   metric ton (2,205 pounds)
liter =   61.02 cubic inches
MW    =   Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
kWh   =   Kilowatt hours (860.42 kcals)
kV    =   Kilovolt



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADBN    -  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC     -  Agricultural Inputs Corporation
AO      -  Agricultural Officer
APROSC  -  Agricultural Projects Services Centre
BLGPO   -  Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project Office
CCA     -  Cultivable Command Area
DADO    -  District Agriculture Development Officer
DIHM    -  Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
DOA     -  Department of Agriculture
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
GRDB    -  Groundwater Resources Development Board
HMGN    -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HP      -  Horse Power
HYV     -  High Yielding Variety
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
ICP     -  Integrated Cereals Program
JT      -  Junior Technician
JTA     -  Junior Technical Assistant
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
MA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
MWR     -  Ministry of Water Resources
NEC     -  Nepal Electricity Corporation
NFC     -  Nepal Food Corporation
NZIDB   -  Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
PCC     -  Project Coordinating Committee
PLAA    -  Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
SAO     -  Senior Agricultural Officer
SDV     -  Supplementary Data Volume
SMS     -  Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -  Training and Visit
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
GLOSSARY
Panchayat  -  Smallest subdivision of Government
Sajhas     -  Cooperative Society
District   -  Principal administrative unit; there are 20 districts
in the Terai region in Nepal
Paddy      -  Unhusked rice
Kharif     -  Wet season (June to September)
Rabi       -  Dry season (October to February)
Hot weather-  March to May
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
VOLUME I - MAIN REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I        BACKGROUND  .........          ..............................      1
The Country ........................................    1
The Agriculture Sector ............................               1
The Irrigation Sub-sector .........................               3
The Need for Technical Assistance ....             .............    5
Project Formulation ...............................    6
II        THE PROJECT AREA ..................................                6
General  ............       ...............................        6
Climate ...........................................    7
Topography and Soils.                                              7
Hydrogeology ......................................    7
Existing Irrigation.                                               8
Agricultural Supporting Services.                                  8
Socio-Economic Conditions   . ........................   10
III         THE PROJECT .......................................    11
A.  General .......................................    11
Project Concept          ............................   11
Project Components ..........................   11
B.  Bhairawa-Lumbini Project Stage I ...............   13
Performance and Cost ..........                          13
C. Stage I Tubewell Systems and Stage II
O & M Component ..........  14
Detailed Features ..........                             14
Operation and Maintenance ..........                     17
D. New Tubewell Systems ..........                               19
Detailed Features ...........................   19
Planning Criteria ...........................   20
Design Criteria ...........        .................   21
Operation Criteria ........         .................   23
Construction Methods .......          ................   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in
February/March 1982. Mission members included Messrs. E.L.M. Kramer
(Mission Leader), Y.K. Choi, C. Diewald, R. Vick, G. Abdi (IDA), W. Barber
K. Mahmood (Consultants) and D. Campbell (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program).



- ii -
Page No.
E.  Agricultural Extension and Training .........           25
F.  Technical Assistance and Training ............          26
G.  Birganj Tubewells ..................... . -.  ..28
Geeran....            e r.......l..                 28
Performance of the Systems.e...s.........           28
Justification for IDA Assistance..........          29
Proposed Improvements.........o .......             29
H.  Implementation Scheduleh......... ............          30
I.  Environmental Effectsf............... . ... 4..         31
IV       PROJECT COST AND FINANCING.....................              31
Cost Estimates ....................-.-......-...-.-         31
Financing.   ... .I. . .. ..  ...................           33
Procurement            .      .       ............          33
Disbursements        .    . ................. .....         34
Accounts and Audits .................... .                  35
V        ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT          ..........             36
G e n e ra1l.o.  .  ........e--s...                         36
The Governing Authorities..... ..         .....             36
Project Management...                                       37
Project Coordination .....   . ....... &....   .            38
Farmer's Organizations....  ...... ..... .......            38
Monitoring and Evaluation.*,,.....  ....                    39
VI        AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND
PRICES............o..o.. .................                  40
Cropping Patternse...                          .. ...       40
Crop Yieldsi.e. . . . . . ...... ..   .    .. ..            40
Agricultural Production             ....                    41
Input Requirementsqus..                    . ....           42
Market Prospects and Prices            . . . .43
VII        FINANCIAL ANALYSIS      A    L     Y    S    IS.......... .   44
Changes in Farm  Incomes ...........       .. #........     44
Impact on Poverty ..... .. ..... .0.04-6 .....  ..*.        45
Cost Recovery ...............                               45



- iii -
Page No.
VIII       BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION         ......................    51
Benefits           .... . ............                  51
Economic Analysis         ... . .            ......    54
Sensitivity and Risks..           . . . ...........    55
IX       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........      56
ANNEXES
1       Supporting Tables
Table 1 to Table 22
2       Consulting Services
Draft Terms of Reference
SKETCHES
I       Typical Well Design
2       Pipe Distribution System and Control Chamber
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule
2       Organization
3       Projected Cropping Pattern
MAPS
IBRD 16431   Project Location
IBRD 16432   General Plan of Project Area
VOLUME II - SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
ANNEXES
3       Supporting Tables
Table 1 to Table 17
4       Hydrogeology in the Project Area
5       Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
Stage I (Credit 654-NEP)



- iv -
6       Training
7       Monitoring and Evaluation
8       Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
9       Draft Terms of Reference for Study of Groundwater
Development Strategies for Irrigation in the Terai



NEPAL
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
The Country
1.01      Nepal is landlocked between China and India.  It is divided into
three parallel ecological zones running east-west: the Terai Plain, an
extension of the Gangetic Plain of India; the Hills, actually the foothills
of the Himalayas, ranging from 500 m to 4,000 m in elevation; and the
Himalayan Mountains to the north.  These three zones account for 17%, 68%
and 15% of the total area (140,800 sq km), respectively. Rivers and streams,
running north-south, cut the Hills into isolated areas and varying
microclimatic conditions provide a range of environments for plant growth,
depending on elevation, aspect, cloud cover, slope, etc.
1.02      Nepal's population is currently estimated at 15.0 M and is increas-
ing at 2.6% annually with about 65% of the population living in the Mountains
and Hills. Population pressure and the lack of employment opportunities in
the Hills forces 10% to 50% of male family members to migrate either
seasonally or permanently, to the Terai, Kathmandu or elsewhere in order to
find employment and supplement incomes. Annual per capita income, estimated
at about US$ 156 in 1982, is one of the lowest in the world. A detailed
assessment of thT/country's economic performance is to be found in the latest
economic report.-
The Agriculture Sector
1.03      Agricultural Performance.  With farm production and related
activities comprising more than 60% of GDP, agriculture is the key sector
of economic development. It engages almost 90% of the labor force and
provides more than 60% of all exports. Only about one sixth of the total
land area is available for cultivation, of which at most 15% is irrigated.
About 90% of the cropped area is grown to foodgrains, predominantly rice
(half of cropped area), followed by maize, wheat, some other cereals and
pulses. Performance of foodgrain production largely determines agricultural
growth. Less than 10% of the cropped area is under cash crops, mainly oil-
seeds, jute, sugarcane, potato and tobacco. During the seventies, the trend
in production of major foodgrains and potatoes has been rather disappointing,
except for wheat. Production grew at about 1.1% annually due to expansions
1/ "NEPAL, Policies and Prospects for Accelerated Growth," 1981, Report No.
3577-NEP.



-2-
in acreage, while yields, except for wheat, fell at a rate of about 0.8% per
year. Some bad monsoons, declining demand in India and higher cost of fer-
tilizers might account partly for this, but other endogenous factors have
also played a role, such as shortfalls and delays in public investment,
inappropriate pricing policies, insufficient support services, lack of
trained manpower, etc. Cash crops, however, fared much better due to
favorable prices and the fact that these crops are mainly grown in the Terai.
Production growth in cash crops, too, was derived from expanded cultivation
and not from increasing yields.
1.04      Agricultural Institutions.  Agricultural development and policy
are the concern of four ministries: the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), the
Ministry of Forests, the Ministry of Water Resources (MW'R) and the Ministry
of Land Reform. MA includes the Department of Agriculture (DOA) which is in
charge of promoting production through extension, training and research. MA
has also overall responsibility for a number of public institutions such as
the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation (AIC). The Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
(DIRM) is within the jurisdiction of MWR. Both MA and MWR suffer from a
chronic lack of trained staff and a sparse distribution of services
throughout the country. Annual increases in trained staff are small, readily
absorbed and insufficient to meet the rapidly growing demand by projects.
A national agricultural extension service is provided under DOA's Division of
Agricultural Training Extension, through offices at regional and district
level. Agricultural research is carried out at seven research stations, six
agricultural, eight livestock and six fishfarms under the direction of DOA.
Some agricultural research stations are also national crop development cen-
ters (for paddy, maize, jute and wheat).
1.05      Agricultural Credit.  ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit in agriculture; the commercial banks as yet play only a minor role
in this sector. ADBN extends short, medium and long-term loans to individual
farmers, groups of farmers, cooperative societies and village committees.
Overall lending has increased considerably over recent years, and covers now
about 25% of total agricultural credit needs. ADBN's financial position is
sound, and loan recovery has been satisfactory under the circumstances;
overdues ran at about 24% of loans outstanding over the past years. Repay-
ment performance of cooperative societies, however, has been poor; their
creditworthiness seemed to be declining. Recently, however, ADBN has
recorded improvements in loan collection. Loans are extended for a wide
variety of purposes, including irrigation, mechanization, warehousing and
marketing. Interest rates vary with loan purpose between 6 and 16%. ADBN is
making efforts to reach more small farmers directly, although the rules for
collateral are not in favor of farmers with very small holdings. Application
procedures for institutional credit are lengthy and cumbersome, so that many
farmers avoid this source in favor of easy credit from private lenders at
higher cost.



-3-
1.06      Agricultural Input Supply.  Agricultural input supply (fertilizer,
seeds, chemicals and some implements) is exclusively entrusted to the AIC.
AIC procures, both abroad and locally, stores and distributes all inputs
through a network of regional and district branches. AIC fixes retail prices
for inputs and provides them according to district plans in coordination with
District Agricultural Development Officers (DADOs), ADBN and Cooperative
Societies or Sajhas. The activities of AIC have been rapidly extending; its
services in the Terai are fairly satisfactory in the light of supply problems
and bottlenecks related to credit cooperatives.
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.07      Water Resources Utilization.  Nepal has abundant water resources,
including major rivers with annual average discharges totalling 150 billion m3
and capable of irrigating 6 to 8 M ha. However, there are only about
1.3 M ha of land suitable for gravity irrigation in the country. Exploitable
groundwater resources, which are largely concentrated in the Terai, could
provide tubewell irrigation for about 1.0 M ha. The total irrigation poten-
tial is therefore about 2.3 M ha. Utilization of water resources for irriga-
tion is limited by several factors: (i) there are few reliable sources of
perennial surface water from the eight major riversl/; (ii) these large
rivers are costly to develop particularly for relatively small command areas
which are typical in the Terai; (iii) heavy sedimentation in riverbeds
creates considerable problems in construction, operation and maintenance of
irrigation systems; and (iv) power supplies to energize tubewells are
severely restricted in extent and amount. At present, only about 300,000 ha
(about 23% of the potential surface irrigable area) are provided with some
form of irrigation, of which about 150,000 ha are under public schemes.
1.08      Irrigation Development:  Before the launching of Nepal's first
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been under-
taken by HMGN. The main reasons were limited financial resources and
shortage of trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the
11,000 ha Chandra Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift,
and other traditional methods, some form of irrigation had been provided to
an area of 154,000 ha, mainly in the Hills. During the First and Second
Development Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65 respectively), HMGN's irrigation
programs were concentrated on building medium sized systems (15,000-60,000
ha) in the Terai. In the Third Plan (1965-70), a program was launched for
construction of minor irrigation projects, mostly in the Terai, to encourage
greater farmer participation and to expand irrigated areas rapidly. Due to
poor investigations and construction, many of these projects fall short of
expectations, which resulted in discouraging response from farmers. HMGN then
1/ The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak), Bagmati,
Kosi and Kankai Rivers.



-4-
switched back in the Fourth Plan (1970-75) to a policy of constructing
medium-sized irrigation projects. In keeping with the priority given to
quick yielding investments, the emphasis has shifted in the Fifth Plan
(1975-80) towards the completion of ongoing schemes and new investment in
projects with short gestation periods and high returns, including groundwater
development by tubewells. In the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-1985) major
works are proposed to command new areas totalling 155,000 ha of which 70,000 ha
are at present under construction; existing major works commanding about
115,000 ha are to be rehabilitated; and approximately 105,000 ha are to be
developed for intensive irrigation within existing command areas. The Sixth
Plan rightly stresses the need to more fully utilize the existing irrigation
infrastructure and to enhance the extension services and associated inputs to
irrigated areas.
1.09      Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development.  The first
irrigation project undertaken with Bank Group assistance in Nepal was the
Birgani Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0, 1973). The
project was completed in mid-1981 1/ and can be considered successful, in
particular with regard to the surface irrigation component. The tubewell
component has been less successful, mainly because of inadequate attention to
maintenance and lack of spares. The proposed Bhairawa-Lumbini Stage II
project includes some funding to improve the performance of the Birganj
tubewells. At present, the Bank Group is involved in five ongoing irrigation
projects and two rural development projects with irrigation components. The
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development (Stage II) Project (Cr. 856-NEP, US$14.0 M
1978) followed on the Birganj Irrigation Project. It was designed to
develop the remaining 12,700 ha deleted from the Birganj project and to
provide intensified agricultural support services. Most civil works and
equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is progressing satis-
factorily. The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M,
1976), the first full scale tubewell project in Nepal provides for construc-
tion of 64 deep wells, detailed development of the 7,600 ha command area and
agricultural supporting services (see para 3.03). The Sunsari-Morang Irriga-
tion and Development Project (Cr. 812-NEP, US$30.0 M, 1978) is designed to
restore and improve the existing canal system throughout 66,000 ha, involv-
ing, inter alia, river training and sediment control works. The ICB process
for the construction of the headreach improvements and irrigation and
drainage works in about 12,000 ha is progressing; the contract is scheduled
to be awarded during the last quarter of 1982. The project is facing a cost
overrun and project implementation has fallen about two years behind
schedule. The Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage 1) (Cr. 1055-NEP,
US$16.0 M, 1981) provides for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the exist-
ing irrigation system (3,400 ha) on the left bank of the Mahakali River in
1/ For detailed information reference is made to the Project Completion
Report (June 1982).



-5-
the Far Western Region and extending it to 6,600 ha net. The project's
start-up activities have taken somewhat longer than anticipated. The
required survey and engineering designs are ongoing and scheduled for comple-
tion towards the end of 1982. Bids for equipment and vehicles have been
invited. The Babai Irrigation Engineering Project (Cr. 1093-NEP, US$3.5 M,
1981) is to finance the preparation of detailed designs and tender documents
for irrigation and drainage project works in 13,500 ha, and for 42 km of
highway design. A consulting firm has been engaged and project implementa-
tion is progressing as scheduled. A component in the First Rural Development
Project (Credit 617-NEP, US$8.0 M, 1976) provides for improvement of small
scale Hill irrigation schemes and development of a high lift scheme on the
Batar plateau in Nuwakot District for a total of approximately 1,900 ha. The
Second Rural Development Project (Cr. 939-NEP, US$11.0 M, 1979) also
includes a component for the improvement of small scale Hill Irrigation
schemes in the Mahakali Zone. Implementation of this project is in an early
stage.
The Need for Technical Assistance
1.10      Shortage of adequately trained (technical) manpower is a severe
constraint on Nepal's development. It limits the Government's ability to
prepare, implement and operate projects, and considerable technical assis-
tance is required to remove this constraint. Because of the high priority
given to irrigation and the large number of projects under preparation and
implementation this constraint is increasingly felt. Available staff is
thinly spread over the various regions, divisions, and projects, and is
insufficient to meet present needs. The shortage of engineers will continue
to be a major bottleneck in implementing irrigation projects under the Sixth
Five-Year Plan. For the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development
Project (Cr. 812-NEP), the Mahakali Irrigation Project (Cr. 1055-NEP) as well
as for the Babai Engineering Project (Cr. 1093-NEP), DIHM was unable to
provide the necessary counterpart design staff and local consulting firms
were recruited to work together with project management and expatriate
project consultants in order to meet manpower requirements. The use of
local consultants has been fairly successful and their use in IDA financed
projects is expected to strengthen their development. In addition, any
completed project would require about as much staff for operation and
maintenance as is now available for construction. Hence, the number of
irrigation engineers in the country has to be increased drastically if
irrigation development is to be accelerated. IDA and other donors include
training components in most projects in Nepal. Under the Mahakali Irrigation
Project (Cr. 1055-NEP), about 80 Nepalese students are to be trained abroad
in civil and mechanical engineering and agriculture. In the meantime, local
capabilities have to be supplemented by technical assistance, both from
overseas and from neighboring countries.



-6-
Project Formulation
1.11      The proposed project follows on the first stage Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Development Project (Credit 653-NEP) which is to be completed by
mid-1983. The Stage I project has largely concentrated on the construction
of infrastructure, and since adequate power for pumping was only recently
supplied to the project area there is as yet not much experience with the opera-
tion of the tubewells. In order to generate project benefits HMGN requested
IDA-assistance for a Stage II project to help with the operation and main-
tenance of the completed wells and canal infrastructure and to build up the
required institutions for O&M of this and similar groundwater development
projects in the future. 1/
1.12      During the implementation of the Stage I tubewell schemes, delays
were encountered with the supply and installation of pumping equipment and
the construction of the open-channel distribution system. Because of the
nature of the traditional conveyance system (unlined earthen canals) dif-
ficulties with water distribution may occur once the systems are operational.
The project would therefore experiment with more modern designs of the dis-
tribution networks (of 15 new tubewells) and with the pumping equipment used
in the wells. This is expected to eliminate some of the major shortcomings
of the Stage I designs, i.e. the excessive conveyance losses in the earthen
canals, and minimize delays in implementation and the high cost of land
acquisition for the traditional type of distribution networks. The project
would be executed over a five-year period by the existing project authority
under the Groundwater Resources Development Board (GRDB) and the Department
of Irrigation, Hvdrology and Meteorology (DIHM).
.II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The project area, which is located within the Rupandehi District
in the Western Terai at an altitude of about 100 m, consists of two con-
tiguous sections (see IBRD Map 16432). The Stage I "implementation area" of
7,600 ha net, which is part of a 20,000 ha gross area lying between the Dano
River in the west, the Rohini River in the east, the Churia (Siwalik) Hills
to the north, and the India/Nepal border to the south. This area was
1/ The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project is the first relatively large
size tubewell development in Nepal. At present, very little experience
exists with the operation of electrically driven tubewells and with the
distribution of water to a relatively large number of farmers (120 ha;
50-70 farmers).



-7-
selected with the objective of implementing about si-ty-three deep tubewells in
the IDA-assisted Stage I groundwater development project. An area of 2,340 ha
gross, lying west of the Dano River and with its southern boundary along
the Lumbini-Bhairawa highway, has been selected for further experimental
groundwater development under the project. The asphalt surfaced
Bhairawa-Lumbini road links this area with Bhairawa, where it intersects with
the north south Butwal-Bhairawa road which bisects the Stage I implementation
area and connects to the major highway systems of Nepal and India. Access to
the project area and Bhairawa is facilitated by the existence of a modern
airport, located close to Bhairawa, which is served by a daily Royal Nepalese
Airlines flight from Kathmandu.
Climate
2.02      The project area is located within the monsoon belt.  Consequently,
its climate is monsoonal or sub-tropical with three distinct seasons: a
warm, wet season from mid-June through September, a cool dry season from
October through February and a pre-monsoon hot season from March to mid-June
(SDV Annex 3, Table 1).
Topography and Soils
2.03      The topography of the Rupandehi Plain is that of a flat, or nearly
flat, plain sloping in a general north-west to south-east direction with an
average gradient of 0.1 to 0.2%. Elevations range from about 120 m in the
northeast to about 90 m in the South-west. The land classification for
irrigation according to U.S. Bureau of Reclamation standards identified
predominantly class II or III lands. Soil and land classification in terms
of soil types, drainage conditions and crops recommended for the area
selected for further groundwater development is detailed in SDV Annex 3,
Table 2.
Hydrogeology
2.04      The Western Terai, of which the project area forms a part, is
underlain by a sequence of alluvial deposits which thicken southwards onto
the Ganges Plain. Drilling has proved thickness of alluvium in excess of
450 m. Coarse fragmented rock deposits predominate in the sections towards
the northern edge of the Terai adjacent to the Churia Hills. The results
of drilling some 51 production wells in the Stage I implementation area have
shown that clean, water yielding sand and gravel forms on average 63% of the
section between about 40 and 180 m depth (SDV, Annex 4, Table 1). An
exploratory well at Lumbini to the south of the Stage II development area has
proved 38% of clean sand and gravel in the section from 45-225 m depth. It
may therefore be expected that the section between about 40 and 200 m depth
in the Stage II implementation area will contain about 50% of screenable
aquifer material with a range of about 40-60%. Pump tests of the wells
constructed in the Stage I area have proved exceptionally high well produc-
tivity with yields in the range of 223-545 m3/hr for drawdowns of a few



-8-
meters. The yields of wells drilled to 200 m in the Stage II development
area with production strings from about 40 to 200 m are expected to be high.
2.05      The water levels in the wells constructed in the Stage I implemen-
tation area are permanently or seasonally above ground level (i.e. the wells
yield artesian free flows) in over two-thirds of the area. Water levels
deeper than 5 m below land surface occur in less than 5% of the Stage I area.
All wells drilled in the Stage II area to 200 m with screens set in the
section from 40 to 200 m are expected to yield artesian free flows. A more
detailed description of the hydrogeology, including water supply and demand
in the project areas is given in SDV Annex 4.
Existing Irrigation
2.06      A relatively small part of the Stage I project area is at present
irrigated from farmer constructed irrigation systems which receive water from
various stone and brushwork diversion structures on the unstable Tinau River.
The diversion works are all located north of the Stage I area, between the
town of Butwal and a point some 2 km to the south of the town. The main
purpose of the schemes, which have been in operation for many decades, is to
convey supplementary water for monsoon paddy. The supplies from these sys-
tems, including one such scheme on the Dano River, are in general inefficient
and unreliable, particularly to the lower portions of the distribution net-
works. The operation and maintenance of the diversion schemes is managed by
farmers committees, without government participation. The systems are impor-
tant to the local population. Other small-scale existing irrigation schemes
are supplied from artesian wells and from pumping from rivers and local
depressions.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.07      Agricultural Extension.  The project district is one of the six
districts in the Terai in which IDA-assisted irrigation projects are located,
and where during the mid-seventies the Department of Agriculture (DOA)
decided to introduce the T&V system of agricultural extension. A detailed
description of that system is given in IDA's appraisal report of the Agricul-
tural Extension and Research project of January, 1981 (Credit 1100-NEP).
Under the Stage I project the existing extension services in the district
were reorganized and strengthened. The activities concentrated on (i) the
introduction of new demonstration methods, (ii) strict adherence to
programmed training and visit schedules and (iii) the enforcement of impor-
tant cultivation practices for the major crops in the area. The project
employed a Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO), who supervised the agricultural
extension activities. It also involved the appointment of additional staff
which at present consists of eight Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), 20
Junior Technicians (JT), 34 Junior Technical Assistants (JTA) and 55
full-time Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAA). At present each



-9-
PLAA serves three tubewell commands with a net cultivable area of about
350 ha and about 1,900 ha in areas not commanded by the tubewells.
2.08      In support of training of PLAAs and farmers, the IDA-assisted
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Stage II Project (Cr. 856-NEP, 1978)
provided funds for equipment, vehicles and the construction of five training
sub-centers and 22 housing units for JTAs. The housing units were mainly for
the field staff operating in the tubewell command areas of the Stage I
project.
2.09      As financing of the agricultural extension services under Stage I
was running out in mid-1980, the IDA-assisted Mahakali Irrigation Stage I
Project (Cr. 1055-NEP) provided additional operational funds required to
continue with the extension activities for three more years and for the
engagement of a local consultant. Total funding for the 1980-1983 period was
about US$80,000.
2.10      Although some setbacks were experienced with the construction of
staff quarters and training sub-centers, the performance of the district's
agricultural extension service established in accordance with the staffing
intensities and methodology as stipulated under the Training and Visit system
of extension service, was encouraging.
2.11      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research on crops in the
project area is conducted at the Bhairawa Agricultural Farm which employs
nine research officers. The Farm also serves as a regional research station
for the Western Region. The National Wheat Development Program, which is
responsible for all aspects of wheat improvement and production conducts its
research at the Farm. The Farm spreads over 35 ha, of which 25 ha are used
for research on paddy during the wet season and on wheat during the dry
season. Major areas of research conducted by the Farm are: selection and
introduction of crop varieties suitable for the region, improved crop cul-
tivation practices, application of fertilizer, plant protection and on-farm
water management. In addition, the Bhairawa Station conducts training ses-
sions for extension staff and farmers. The research program at the Station
is complemented by the Integrated Cereals Program (ICP), which is assisted by
USAID, to carry out research on paddy, wheat and maize. The research
activities at the Station are to be further strengthened under the on-going
IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP).
2.12      Input Supply.  The Agriculture Inputs Corporation (AIC) produces
high quality wheat, paddy and maize seeds through a contract system with
private growers. These seeds are sold to the farmers at cost. As the number
of farmers using high quality paddy and maize seeds is as yet not very sig-
nificant, AIC does not have problems in meeting the demand. However, the
demand for the HYV wheat seed is larger than the available supply. DOA,
through assistance given by ICP, is taking steps to improve the situation by
allowing the Bhairawa Research Farm to expand its foundation seed production



-10-
program. This seed is to be supplied to AIC for certified seed multiplica-
tion and distribution.
2.13      AIC is also responsible for the procurement and distribution of
fertilizer and plant protection chemicals. For the project areas these
inputs are available through the District AIC located in Bhairawa. Fer-
tilizer and agro-chemicals are generally sold to the Sajhas at subsidized
prices at the district AIC godowns. The Sajhas transport the inputs to their
facilities at the panchayat level. During the 1980/81 cropping season, AIC
sold about 1,100 ton of fertilizer (in nutrient) in the district. At
present, the overall district storage capacity for agricultural inputs (6,600
ton) appears adequate.   However, there is a need for additional input
storage facilities in the Stage II tubewell development area.
2.14      Storage, Processing and Marketing.  Storage of agricultural produce
at the farm level is limited to grain for home consumption. Paddy is usually
stored in mud bins. Farmers normally sell their produce at harvest inter
alia for want of suitable storage facilities. Private dealers buy the
surplus paddy and transport it to nearby areas or deficit Districts in the
hill region. The processing facilities in the project area are well
developed. At the village level, many small rice mills, flour mills and oil
presses exist which satisfy the local demand. Larger scale rice mills and a
flour mill operate in Bhairawa.
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.15      The project area consists mainly of small, mostly owner-cultivated
farms. About 64% of the smallest farms occupy about 35% of the land (SDV
Annex 3, Table 3). The average farmsize is about 2.0 ha. According to a
survey, only about 5-10% of the land is farmed by tenants or
owner-cum-tenants. These survey results, however, appear somewhat suspect as
evidence collected by the mission (from interviews) suggests a much higher
percentage of tenancy. Less than one third of the families represent the
original Tharu population, while the remainder are settlers, mostly from the
hills. The average family size is about 7.2 persons. About 55% of the
family members are available for work. Women also participate in agricul-
tural activities, such as transplanting and harvesting.
2.16      About 90-95% of the farm families are estimated to live below the
poverty threshold of about NRs 1,050 (US$80) 1/ per capita per year. Most
farm families have earnings in addition to their subsistence income from crop
cultivation and animal husbandry, mainly from seasonal work as hired laborers
on other farms or from occasional construction jobs. The sale of land in
emergencies is not uncommon. Not much is known about indebtedness, but it is
probably high, particularly among small farmers. The dominance of large
farmers is a pervasive feature of the agricultural economy of the area.
1/ Estimated for the project area (para 7.03).



-11-
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
Project Concept
3.01      Although the implementation of major works in the Stage I project
is nearing completion, it is clear that the crucial phase of properly operat-
ing and maintaining the tubewell schemes is still to be tested. While the
Stage I project has developed a conceptual basis for O&M of the tubewell
systems, sustained agricultural development will hinge on a reliable water
supply, proper distribution and on-farm management of water, experienced and
dedicated staff, sufficient funding for O&M and improved agricultural support
services. The essence of the proposed project is to ensure that the existing
Stage I tubewell systems would be operated and maintained in accordance with
sound engineering standards, that there would be active farmers participa-
tion and that the agricultural inputs and support services would be made
available to achieve the projected production. Therefore, a central task of
the project would be to build up institutions to operate and maintain the
project as well as similar projects elsewhere in Nepal in the future. In
addition, the project would experiment with improved technologies in the
design and construction of new tubewell irrigation systems. The improvements
are to be introduced on a pilot scale (about 15 tubewell systems) to enable
comparison of both technologies -- improved designs versus Stage I technology
-- during the project's five-year implementation period. The proposed
project would also include a comprehensive study to compare the advantages
and disadvantages of the tested technologies and of other alternative
strategies to direct future groundwater development in Nepal.
Project Components
3.02      The project would finance over a five-year period the following
components:
(a) staff required for project operation and maintenance of
64 wells,1/ 280 km of canal distribution networks, 96 km of
village roads and for organizing farmers:
1/ In the course of Stage I project implementation, it was agreed to
increase the number of tubewells to 64, by converting one observation
well into a production well.



-12-
(b) design and construction of approximately 500 km of
field channels to convey irrigation supplies from the 5 ha
outlets to the farmers- fields;
(c) procurement of equipment, vehicles, spare parts, construction
materials and workshop and office facilities required for
operating and maintaining the project and for constructing 15 new
wells;
(d) training of project staff;
(e) staff, vehicles and buildings required for the T&V
system of agricultural extension in the Rupandehi
District;
(f) provision of seeds, fertilizer and pesticides to
progressive farmers for the growing of major crops
in about 150 ha;
(g) planning, design, installation and operation of 15 new
tubewell schemes, to be3equipped with submersible pumps
discharging about 300 m /hr and distribution networks
of buried PVC pipes, to serve 120 ha required for each well, a
drainage network and about 100 km of field channels;
(h) construction of approximately 25 km of roads to provide
access to the 15 new tubewells and to connect the major
villages in that area;
(i) construction of approximately 35 km of 33 kV transmission lines
with transformers to provide power to the new wells.
(j) the completion of the Stage I project including the
installation of 64 tubewells, the construction of 280 km of
distribution and drainage systems, 80 km of power transmission
lines, 96 km of roads and the project buildings.
Other project components would be:
(k) monitoring and evaluation studies;
(1) provision of consulting services for this and, if required,
other IDA-supported irrigation projects in Nepal for project
implementation, aerial photography and mapping, for undertaking
a comprehensive study to compare the advantages and disadvantages
of alternative strategies for future groundwater development in
Nepal, and, if required, for updating the existing



-13-
feasibility study for a further groundwater development project
in the Bhairawa-Lumbini area to serve about 13,000 ha.
(m) repair and improvement of the Birganj tubewell systems.
The project cost is estimated at US$19.4 M. It will be implemented over a
five-year period by the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project Office under
the Groundwater Resources Development Board. The rehabilitation
of the Birganj tubewell system would be carried out by the Narayani Zone
Irrigation Development Board (NZIDB).
B. Bhairawa-Lumbini Project Stage I
Performance and Cost
3.03      General.  The project was appraised in November/December 1975 and
became effective in November 1976. It represented the first stage of a
groundwater development program to provide irrigation to the Western Terai
and included the design and installation of 63 tubewells, distribution net-
works to serve about 120 ha under each well, 70 km of 11 kV transmission
lines, 70 km of village roads, 1,000 ton grain storage facilities and the
strengthening of agricultural supporting services in the project areas. The
project cost was estimated at US$13.7 M and the IDA-credit approved was
US$9.0 M (Credit 654-NEP). The scope of the project was selected on the basis
of need, accessibility to and agricultural potential of the project area,
proven groundwater resources, and implementing capability of HMGN.  Project
implementation was to take four years and to be completed in 1980.
3.04      Physical Progress.  Due to inadequate staffing and budget alloca-
tions, cumbersome procurement, tendering and land acquisition procedures and
poor performance of local contractors, the construction of project works, the
acquisition of construction materials and repair of equipment and vehicles
was held up. With the arrival of essential construction equipment and
machines in 1979, the implementation of works picked up and completion of all
works is now scheduled for mid-1983. Procurement problems also delayed the
erection of the 33 kV substation at the Gandak West Power Station. As a
result power was only supplied to the project from March 1982. The construc-
tion of field channels by the farmers has not made much progress, because
water was not available from the tubewells. The situation may change once
water becomes available at the outlets. Also only a small portion of the
programmed drainage works was constructed, because of resistance from
farmers. It is anticipated that farmer-s reluctance for the implementation
of the drainage program would diminish once the tubewells become operational
and certain low-lying areas may become waterlogged.



-14-
3.05      Financial Progress.  The revised cost-estimate tco completion of the
project, which is scheduled for mid-1983, amounts to US$15.6 M. This repre-
sents a cost increase over the appraisal cost estimate of about US$1.9 M, or
about 15%. The cost overrun is mainly due to the 3-year delay in project
implementation which has resulted in higher costs for civil works, project
staff and consulting services. Until September 1982 IDA had disbursed
US$8.8 M 1/ or 98% of the uS89 n M credit Full disbtursemernt is likelv bv end
1982.  Futrther details on physical and financial progress are given in SDV
Annex 2.
C. Stage I Tubewell Systems and Stage II 0 & M Component
Detailed Features
3.06      General.  As originally conceived at appraisal, the tubewell
irrigation systems were to have included the following elements:
(a) installation of 63 tubewells varying in depth from 120 to
200 m equipped with Slectric motor powered pumps capable
of discharging 300 m /ha against 30 m of head;
(b) constriction of 63 earth storage reservoirs each with
2000 m capacity for receiving the discharge
from the tubewells;
(c) construction of earth channel conveyance systems serving
120 ha down to 5 ha outlets and drainage networks with
outfalls to rivers and streams; and
(d) construction of approximately 70 km of 11 kV transmission
lines through which power would be delivered to the
project pumps from the existing 33 kV Bhairawa-Butwal grid
and provision of 11/0.4 kV transformers at each wellhead.
3.07      As actually implemented, the project departed in several respects
from the original design concept. The storage reservoirs, which were
intended to allow maximization in use of the erratic power supply and mini-
mize use of energy during peak power demand periods, were not constructed.
The absence of the reservoirs in the existing systems was to some extent
1/ Including US$0.5 M disbursed from Credit 654 for engineering services for
the preparation of the Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project authorized and
Development Credit Agreement amended in December 1977, which effectively
reduced IDA funding to the Bhairawa-Lumbini Project by this amount.



-15-
replaced by increasing the pumping capacity of the water points but automa-
tion of pumping is now not possible. The power supply is from the 33 kV line
extended from the Gandak power station to Butwal and Bhairawa. Use of this
source of power required construction of 7 km of 33 kV transmission line and
provision of a 5 MW 33/11 kV transformer substation which were not foreseen
at appraisal.
3.08      Wells.  As originally designed, the wells were to have had a 14 in.
inside diameter (ID) mild steel pump chamber to a depth of 40 to 50 m and a
10 in outside diameter (OD) fiberglass production string to 120-200 m depth
consisting of slotted pipe set opposite selected aquifer material and the
balance of blank pipe. In the event, the fiberglass design was applied only
experimentally at two sites and the remainder of the wells were constructed
with 10 in ID mild steel production strings. The 14 in ID pump chamber was
retained for a number of the early wells but the size of this element was
increased to 16 in ID when casing purchased specifically for the project
became available.
3.09      The wells range in depth from 101 to 190 m with pump chamber depths
in the range of 32-52 m. The length of screened section ranges from 29 to
77 m and averages about 50 m.  As expected, the permeability of the3aquifer
proved to be high with specific capacities in the range of 23-176 m /h and
averaging 107 m /h.  The design discharges of the 56 wells successfully
completed to date range from 320 to 545 m /h to serve irrigated areas in the
range of 85 to 145 ha (SDV Annex 4, Table 2).
3.10      Of the 58 wells completed to date, 42 are either permanently or
seasonally free fl9wing at land surface level and 23 have artesian discharges
in excess of 200 m /h. Water levels range from about +4 to -8 m relative to
land surface. However, the artesian flowing conditions are not expected to
persist for long after the well field becomes fully operational. The initial
decline of the water level would be relatively rapid and a long-term decline
of up to 15 m is foreseen. Such declines can be easily accommodated within
the existing well design.
3.11      Pumping Units.  The pumps are 3 or 4 stage turbines with water
lubricated column assemblies, a 10 in. diameter rising main, and powered by
vertical hollow shaft squirrel cage induction motors. There is a flow meter
on the delivery pipe. Of the 68 motors gurchased, 48 have 100 HP prime
movers and are designed to deliver 400 m /h against P5 m of head and 20 have
75 HP prime movers and are designed to deliver 300 m /h against 45 m of head.
Such pumping head requirements are now not expected to develop and certainly
not within the expected life of the pumping units. With lower than design
heads, the pumps would deliver higher than design discharges. Nevertheless,
almost all the pumps are considerably overpowered for the required yield.
Assuming a long-term water level decline of 15 m below the present pumping
level at the required discharge and a wire to water pumping unit efficiency



-16-
of 60%, the required capacities of the pump motors would range from 27 to
88 HP (with one exception of 144 HP).
3.12      Power Generation, Transmission and Transformation.  The Gandak West
Hydropower Station is located on a 5 m drop structure on the Gandak left bank
main canal. It has three turbines each with 5 MW installed capacity. At
present, only two of the turbines are operated simultaneously (the third
being kept on stand by), generating on average about 5 MW from about December
15 through March 15 and about 8 MW during the balance of the year. The firm
capacity as presently operated is therefore 5 MW, except under canal closure
conditions which are supposed to be for one month in October but in fact are
for shorter periods. The low projected generation at the plant is not
properly explained. There is no shortage of water in the canal, it seems
unnecessary to have a turbine on standby at all times and the head fluctua-
tions through the turbines are minimal. The plant supplies energy through
a 132 kV line to Hetauda and the national grid and through a 33 kV line to
Butwal and the project area.
3.13      The project has constructed 7 km of 33 kV transmission lines from
the Gandak 33 kV line to a location in the Stage I project area where a 5 MW
33/11 kV transformer substation has been located. From this substation, 73
km of 11 kV transmission lines have been constructed to serve the 64 wells
planned for Stage I. Transformation from 11 to 0.4 kV is provided at each
well head.
3.14      It is estimated that the Stage I project would require about 3 MW
of power at the well head assuming water levels in the area decline through
time by 15 m. Considerably less power would be required in the early years.
HMGN would cause NEC to operate the 33 kV transmission line from the Gandak
West Hydropower Station to the 33/11 kV Substation in Stage I as a dedicated
feeder and to provide the required power which is expected not to exceed 5 MW
(inclusive of the power requirements for the 15 new tubewells) at the substa-
tion at full development.
3.15      Pumphouse.  The pumphouses are brick built structures and provision
is made for access through the roof so that the pump and rising main can be
removed from the well. The structure includes a residence for the pump
operator.
3.16      Water Requirements.  The annuil water requirements for a typical
tubewell unit are estimated at 10,400 m  per ha.  This is based on a cropping
patte5n designed to match the following main assumptions: pump discharge of
450 m /hour, supply unit of 120 ha net, conveyance efficiency of 70% from
pump to 5 ha outlet and no more than 18 hours pumping per day during the June
peak demand period in a mean rainfall year (SDV Annex 3, Tables 9, 10A, 10B
and 10E). In years of lower rainfall pumps would need to run up to 24 hours
per day during the peak demand period.



-17-
3.17      Distribution System and Outlets.  The wells discharge into a divi-
sion box which directs the flow into a network of canals: the canals are on
the average 4.5 km long for a 120 ha cimmand area. The unlined earthen
canals, designed to convey about 450 m /hr or 125 1/sec, have a bottom width
of 0.4 m, a depth of 0.6 m with water depths ranging from 0.20 to 0.45
depending on the available gradient (0.05 to 0.30 %). The majority of the
canals are built in fill in order to ensure adequate command and provided
with the necessary control structures and crossings. An overall conveyance
loss of 30% from the pump to the 5 ha outlets is assumed. The 5 ha outlets
are built in conjunction with check structures provided with wooden stoplogs.
As the losses of the unlined canals in certain reaches are expected to be
high, the proposed Stage II project provides for lining of 10 km of the most
vulnerable reaches. A 1.20 m wide track runs alongside the canals to
facilitate O&M and to provide access to the fields. Below the 5 ha outlets
farmers are responsible for the construction of field channels and drains.
No field channels were constructed so far and only a small proportion of the
drainage network proposed under Stage I was implemented (SDV Annex 5).
Operation and maintenance of the facilities down to the 5 ha outlets would be
the Stage II project's responsibility.
3.18      Completion of Stage I.  The proposed Stage II project would finance
the Stage I cost overrun to complete the installation of 64 tubewells, the
construction of 280 km of distribution and drainage network, 80 km of power
transmission lines, 96 km of roads and the project buildings, estimated at
US$1.7 million. In addition it would provide funding to compensate for
US$0.5 M disbursed from Credit 654 to finance engineering services for the
preparation of further irrigation projects in the plains of Nepal (see para
3.05). This is justified as HMGN finds itself unable to provide from its own
resources the additional funds required to complete the construction of the
Stage I project works. Without completion of these works Stage I objectives
would not be achieved. Consequently HMGN requested IDA to provide financing
for the balance of the Stage I civil works, materials, equipment and advisory
services in the proposed follow-up project.
Operation and Maintenance (component of Stage II)
3.19    A special division of the project organization would deal with all
aspects of operation and maintenance. This division would have an O&M
sub-division and a mechanical engineering sub-division, supported by a
workshop equipped with mobile repair units. The O&M sub-division would
operate in close cooperation with the agriculture division. The main
criteria for operation and maintenance of the Stage I tubewell systems are
outlined in SDV, Annex 5. Maintenance works under the project would cover
routine and preventive maintenance work, repair of breakdowns and general
repairs. The Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC) would operate, maintain and
repair the facilities which supply electricity to each wellhead. These
facilities include the Gandak West Hydropower Station, the substations, and
the transmission lines up to the electricity meter at each wellhead. In



-18-
normal years no electricity would be supplied to the project tubewells during
hours of peak load on the Central Nepal System and pump operators would be
instructed not to run the pumps during those hours. The project office would
seek a general agreement with NEC that necessary repairs would be carried out
within 24 hours.
3.20      The main problems with the repair and maintenance services
encountered during the implementation of the Stage I project were:
(a) the lack of machinery and handtools for the workshop and field
staff;
(b) the effectiveness of limited staff available was often hampered
by lack of adequate transport;
(c) because of cumbersome procurement procedures and inventory
controls, spare parts were generally not available in time; and
(d) responsibilities for operation and maintenance staff were
not clearly defined.
The improvements proposed under the project are the following:
(a) recruitment and training of additional O&M staff;
(b) provision of adequate transportation for the O&M staff;
(c) procurement of additional equipment and tools for the
workshop and spare parts for pumping equipment;
provision of advisory services in workshop management;
(d)  separation of O&M from construction activities and the
inclusion of an O&M division in the project organization.
3.21    Agreements have been reached with HMGN that (a) all canals, struc-
tures, pumping equipment, power lines, roads, O&M equipment and other
facilities would be properly operated and maintained; (b) at all times ade-
quate staff would be employed and funds made available, as and when required,
to properly operate and maintain the project; (c) the project consultants
would prepare a comprehensive O&M manual for typical tubewell systems in the
project and furnish it in draft to IDA for its review by 1 November 1983 and
in its final form by 1 November 1984.



-19-
D. New Tubewell Systems
Detailed Features
3.22      General.  The new tubewell designs would improve water conveyance
from the pumphouse to the outlet, eliminate the delays in implementation
because of land acquisition problems and improve pumping performance. The
discharge of the wells would be 300 m /hr or 85 1/sec. Each well would serve
a net area of about 120 ha. The PVC pipe distribution network would consist
of four independent distribution "loops", each supplying approximately 30 ha
with a nominal flow size of 22 1/sec. The losses in the system down to the 4
ha distribution outlets would be negligible.
3.23      The Water Point.  The water point would consist of the well, pump,
prime mover, switch gear, starter and protection relays and electrical power
supply. The unit would be housed in a brick-built pumphouse. The wells
would average 200 m depth and be fitted with electrical submersible pumps
instead of the vertical shaft turbine pumps of the Stage I project. 1/ Sub-
mersibles are proposed because they are cheaper and because they give more
protection against vandalism. All pumps would have foot valves to prevent
the possibility of reverse flow causing motors to spin backwards when power
stoppages occur. Other changes from the first stage water points design
involve the switch gear, starter relays and ancillary equipment. These
include:
(a) a control chamber placed adjacent to the well fitted with
water level operated switches to allow automation of the
prime motor which obviates the necessity of a pump operator
to be present to start and shut down the pumps;
(b) a float-operated throttling valve on the outlet from the pump
delivery line, to restrict the flow from the pump when the
water level in the control chamber rises above a set level;
(c) fitting of solid state electrical totalizing meters on all
pumping units to monitor operation of each pump.
1/ Very good submersible pumps have been developed in India during the the
last 6-7 years, which are providing reliable service under less than
perfect conditions e.g. on tubewells which are not entirely vertical.



-20-
3.24      Control Chamber.  An important feature of the system would be the
control chamber. This structure of reinforced brickwork, would have one
inflow and several outflow chambers, one for each of the distribution loops.
It would have the following functions:
(a) maintaining the operating head in the piped distribution
system;
(b) permitting the pipe distribution system to be operated at less
than the discharge rate of the pump, without causing spillage;
(c) ensuriig equal distribution of the pump discharge
(300 m /hr) into each of the distribution loops;
(d) permitting automated operation of the pumping unit, including
automatic resumption of pumping in the event of power failures.
3.25      Pipe distribution network.  The pipe conveyance would consist of
PVC feeder pipes from the control chamber to closed loops of PVC pipes.
Thus, any distribution outlet on a loop may be simultaneously supplied with
water flowing from two directions which reduces flow veiocities and head
losses. The discharge to each loop would be about 75 m /hour serving
approximately 30 ha. A ~20 ha command area would have four loops and a well
point discharge of 300 m /hour. The control chamber would divide the pump
discharge equally to four outflow chambers and thence to the distribution
loops.
3.26      Distribution outlets.  The outlet valves would be of the simple
Alfalfa type, placed on risers from the loops. Seven to eight outlet valves
are to be placed on each loop. Thus, each valve would serve an area of
approximately 4 ha.
3.27      Field channels.  The outlet valve would discharge into a distribu-
tion box from which the flow is to be directed into one or more unlined field
channels. Assuming that the outlet valve is placed in the center of the 4 ha
it serves, the field channel length would generally be less than 100 m.
Planning Criteria
3.28      Site selection.  The area selected for the installation of the
fifteen new tubewells is located West of the Dano River adjacent to the
Stage I area. It measures 2,340 ha gross, with an irrigable area of 1800 ha
net. As the Dano river channel is active, it has been agreed that the wells
be sited at least 500 m away from the river bank, so that bank erosion would
not affect the tubewell schemes. The selection of this area was based on
(i) expected high well yields, (ii) the suitability of the soils for sus-
tained irrigated agriculture and (iii) the proximity of the first stage
project area. A 1979 feasibility study for a 15,000 ha Stage II project was



-21-
made up of numerous small, practically independent units, of which the 1800
ha area was one. As a result, the basic surveys and preliminary designs for
a road and power transmission network for this area are available.
3.29      Roads.  A low cost gravel surfaced road network would be con-
structed in the extension area to provide access to the well sites and to
connect the main villages with each other and the main road system in the
area. The planned roads would mostly follow existing tracks and utilize
established right-of-ways.
3.30      Drainage.  Since the key crops in the proposed cropping patterns
are rice in the wet season and wheat in the dry season, drainage would be
required to expedite drainage of excess flood waters and to provide suitable
conditions for the cultivation of dry season crops. Farmers would build the
drainage network within a 4 ha unit. These field drains would discharge into
secondary drains which in turn are connected with natural streams.
3.31      Surveys.  The detailed planning and design of the new tubewell
schemes requires the following surveys:
(a) ground control work and topographic mapping to a scale
of 1:10,000 with 1.0 m contour intervals, and to a
scale of 1:2,500 with 0.25 m contour intervals; the topographic
survey would be carried out using existing aerial
photography;
(b) a semi-detailed soil survey on a 1:10,000 scale.
Design Criteria
3.32      Wells.  The wells would be drilled using direct circulation rotary
rigs using bentonite mud appropriately weighted with barytes to control
artesian pressures. A production string would be inserted consisting of
250 mm ID mild steel screen opposite all suitable aquifer material and blank
pipe covering non-productive beds. It is expected that the screen would
represent about 50% of the production string but the maximum thickness of
aquifer material would be screened in all wells. (Sketch 1)
3.33      The wells would be naturally developed, i.e. there would be no
gravel pack. The wells would be initially developed by airlift pumping using
a compressor and finally developed with a turbine test pumping unit. The
test pump wsuld have a capacity at least equal to the design discharge of the
well (300 m /h) and preferably about 50% higher. The wells would be test
pumped for 24 hours.
3.34      Pumping Units.  The pumps would be electric submersible type with
an 8 in. ID rising main. The starter relay would be of Auto Transformer



-22-
Starter type, and a single phase preventor would be included in the relay.
The switch gear would be automated through a water level operated electrical
control at the regulating tank. A capacitor would be provided for power
factor correction and current regulation. A solid state electronic totaliz-
ing hour meter would be fitted to the pump.
3.35      Power transmission and transformation.  Power for the fifteen new
tubewells would be extended from the existing sub-station in the Stage I
area. The 33 kV lines would be mounted on steel posts. Step-down trans-
formers (33 kV/0.4 kV) of appropriate capacity would be provided at each
tubewell. The project would plan, design and construct these works. An
agreement would be obtained from HMGN causing NEC to energize the tubewell
pumping units within two months after the completion of any water distribu-
tion system in the project.
3.36      Pumphouse.  The pumphouse would be a simple brick-built structure
which would be fitted with facilities to lift the submersible pumping equip-
ment for maintenance. It would include an accommodation room for the pump
operator.
3.37      Control chamber.  This structure would be of reinforced brickwork
and would have an inflow and four outflow chambers (Sketch 2). The discharge
from the tubewell is delivered into the bottom of the inflow chamber via a
float controlled throttling valve. At the top of the inflow chamber are four
V-notch weirs, dividing the pump discharge equally among the four outflow
chambers. Two related design parameters are the elevation of the V-notch
at the top of the inflow chamber and the size of PVC pipe used in the loops.
With PVC pipe sizes for the loops of 160 mm and for the PVC lines connecting
each loop with the control chamber of 200 mm, the total friction head from
the control chamber to the valve farthest away would amount to 1.8 m. If
delivery is at an elevation of 0.3 m above ground, the water level in the
outflow chamber would be at 2.1 m and in the inflow chamber about 2.2 m above
ground. Thus, with about 0.6 m of freeboard, the structural height of the
control chamber would be approximately 2.8 m above ground level. The inflow
chamber would be equipped with an upper level probe which shuts down the pump
once the water level rises above a set operating level. The lower probes --
one in each outflow chamber -- re-start the pump if the level falls below a
set level.
3.38      Water Requirements.  The cropping pattern design and related water
requirement calculations are made for a typical tubewell uni t supplying
120 ha net. They are based on a pumping discharge of 300 m /hr, and a con-
veyance efficiency of 98% from pump to the 4 ha outlet and a maximum 18 hours
of pumping per day during the June peak demand period in a mean rainfall 3
year. This results in an annual water requirement at the pump of 6,875 m
per ha of net CCA in a mean rainfall year (SDV Annex 3, Tables 9, 10C, IOD
and IOE). In years of lower rainfall in June, pumps would need to run up to
24 hours per day during the peak demand period.



-23-
3.39      Distribution system and outlets.  An important feature of the
proposed buried pipe distribution system is the rotational supply to 4 ha
units from oitlet valves on distribution loops. The size of the delivery
stream, 75 m /hour or 22 1/sec, is synonymous with the capacity of the loop.
The pipes for the loops would be PVC 160 mm O.D. and for the lines conne5ting
the control chamber and the loops PVC 200 mm O.D., both with a 2.5 kg/cm
pressure rating. The actual layout of the distribution systems and the areas
served by the individual loops would be influenced by topographic and
cadastral factors; they generally would not be rectangular. Boundaries of
the areas served by individual outlet valves in practice would follow exist-
ing property lines; consequently the areas need not be uniform in size. The
depth of soil cover over the 160 mm loop would not be less than 1 m. The
valves would discharge into a brick distribution box. A single 160 mm surge
riser would be provided on each loop, at a point farthest from the control
chamber. The top elevation of the riser would be approximately 0.5 m above
the top of the control chamber.
3.40      Drainage.  The average field drain length within a 4 ha service
area would be about 40 m/ha and would have a discharge capacity of
4 1/sec/ha. Each 4 ha service unit would have at least one outfall into a
secondary drain. The secondary drains would function as carriers to the
natural drains. The project would improve the carrying capacity of about
28 km of natural streams, through deepening and straightening certain sec-
tions, the removal of obstructions and gully control in sensitive sections.
The drains would be provided with appropriate structures and crossings where
needed.
3.41      Roads.  Two types of roads would be built under the project.  Type
"Al' roads, which are to link clusters of villages and to connect them with
the existing road system, would have a formation width of 6.0 m providing a
3.5 m wide traffic lane and two shoulders of 1.25 m each. The type "B" road
would be built mainly to provide access to isolated wellsites or villages.
The formation width would only be 4.0 m with a traffic lane width of 3.0 m.
This is sufficient for occasional vehicles with no passing traffic. In both
cases, the pavement would be constructed from two layers of river gravel,
each 15 cm thick, placed between the earthen shoulders. A gravel filter
through the shoulders would be constructed at 10 m intervals to allow for
drainage of the pavement.
Operation Criteria
3.42      The operation criteria for the Stage I tubewells as described in
SDV Annex 5 are essentially also valid for the new tubewells. However, the
key differences are (a) a more efficient, reliable and timely supply of water
to 4 ha units (b) built-in operational flexibilities which represent impor-
tant operational advantages over open channel systems:



-24-
(a) the freedom from dependence upon tubewell operator attendance;
(b) the much reduced problem of water distribution to the delivery
outlets and within the area served by such outlets;
(c) the future possibility to opt for alternative methods of
operation in areas exclusively under paddy, for example,
delivery from more than one outlet at a time on the same
loop. This would increase the capacity of the loop by
about 33% and require similar increase in pumping capacity.
3.43    The "new" tubewell system designs, which were successfully tested in
India, would eliminate the high conveyance losses in the earthen canals, and
delays and costs of land acquisition. A comparison of performance of the
"Stage I well" versus the "new well" is expected to favor the "new wells"
because:
(a) conveyance efficiency of a pipe distribution system is much
higher than for earthen channels;
(b) delivery valves on the pipe system are located in the center
of a 4 ha area served, while the open channel outlets deliver
to the boundaries of 5 ha units;
(c) the greater efficiency of delivering water through pipes (at
least 25%) would result in a lower energy requirement per unit
of water delivered to each field, despite the additional 2 m
head required to convey the water through the pipes;
(d) investment costs are in favor of submersible pumps and
piped distribution systems; and
(e) maintenance cost strongly favor a buried pipe distribution
system;
Construction Methods
3.44      Drilling, development and testing of the new wells would be the
responsibility of the drilling unit of the construction division in the
project organization. Sufficient expertise to successfully undertake these
activities was developed under Stage I. Essential drilling and testing
equipment was procured under the first stage project, including two direct
rotary rigs. Some additional equipment would have to be procured under the
present project. The laying of PVC pipes would be undertaken by contractors
as a turnkey package, including the supply of the pipes and fittings. Local
labor would be engaged by the contractors to excavate the trenches in which
to place the pipes. The supply and installation of the transmission lines
and the transformers at the new wellheads would be undertaken by contractors



-25-
engaged and supervised by project staff. Before taking over and charging the
power transmission network NEC would inspect and test the power supply
facilities built by the project.
E. Agricultural Extension and Training
3.45      Under the project the T&V system of agricultural extension, which
was established under Stage I for the whole of the Rupandehi District, would
be strengthened and made more effective. This would include a concentration
on in-service training of extension workers, regular farm visits and periodic
monitoring of the results. The extension effort would be focussed on on-farm
water management, and improvement of agronomic practices of HYVs of major
crops. The extension advice on on-farm water management and improved soil
preparation would be channelled through the Water Users Groups at the 4-5 ha
service unit level. Planning and establishing field demonstrations at the
Research Station as well as at farmers' fields would have a high priority in
order to show:
(a) the most suitable high yielding paddy varieties;
(b) the optimum time for sowing of wheat;
(c) wheat yield responses to cultivation under different soil and
drainage conditions; and
(d) cropping patterns most suited to different areas.
Under the Stage II project the agricultural extension staff in the project's
tubewell areas (about 9,500 ha) would be strengthened to 1 JT for 3,000 ha, 1
JTA for 360 ha or 3 tubewell commands and 1 PLAA for 120 ha or one tubewell
command. They would be managed by the project's agricultural officer who
heads the Agricultural Division and would be accountable to the project
manager. The project would also include funding for (i) staff cost including
essential extension materials (ii) construction of additional staff residen-
ces and five input storage units of 100 ton each and (iii) procurement of
vehicles. The extension service in the District outside the tubewell area
will continue operating at the Stage I staffing levels,'with financing
provided under the Stage II project. For details on future staff and build-
ing requirements see SDV, Annex 3, Tables 4 to 8.
3.46      Research workers at the Regional Research Station, Bhairawa, would
assist in the training of extension staff. The Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (IDA Credit 1100-NEP) provides funding to improve the train-
ing facilities for a Regional Training Center to be located at the Research
Station at Bhairawa. Additional funding is included under this project to
allow the completion of the training complex. The facilities, for which all



-26-
plans and designs are ready, include a training hall, hostel, dormitory,
classrooms, and residential quarters (Annex 1, Table 4).
F. Technical Assistance and Training
Consultants
3.47      Consulting Services would be required to assist DIHM, DOA, the
Groundwater Resources Development Board and project management in the
implementation of the project and if required in updating the 1979
feasibility studies which may lead to a possible third stage groundwater
development project in the Bhairawa Lumbini area. Draft terms of reference
are given in Annex 2. The expatriate consultants would advise and guide the
project staff in project management, in organizing and implementing the
day-to-day O&M activities, including the preparation of O&M manuals, and
provide in service training in these fields. They would be responsible for
providing the plans, designs, tender documents and construction supervision
for the new tubewells to be built under the project. In addition the con-
sultants would advise on broader project aspects such as the planning of
annual work programs, cost recovery, preparing of bid documents and evalua-
tion of bids, monitoring of project benefits and evaluation of each year's
O&M performance and the derivation of unit costs, comparative analysis of the
performance of the Stage I tubewell schemes versus the new schemes and
measures to improve the overall operational efficiency of the tubewell
schemes. Technical assistance would also be provided to organize and manage
the agricultural support services, with particular emphasis on organizing
farmers into water users groups, the development of suitable cropping
patterns, water management practices and in service training. About 190
manmonths (which includes 50 manmonths unallocated) would be provided over a
five-year period at an estimated cost of US$10,000 per manmonth. Two years
after the commencement of the project or at the end of 1984, HMGN would
review the need and nature of further technical assistance and decide, after
consultations with IDA, on the use of the 50 unallocated manmonths (Annex 1,
Table 11). An agreement has been reached with HMGN that consultants whose
qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA would be employed by
March 1, 1983 under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
3.48    Consulting services would also be required to assist the Groundwater
Resources Development Board in undertaking a comprehensive study of past,
present and projections of future performance of various public and private
groundwater development alternatives, in order to determine the most suitable
strategies for groundwater development for irrigation in the Terai in Nepal.
Prior to the anticipated start of the study, an IDA mission intends to review
in the field the data base necessary for the work primarily to narrow the
scope of the proposed study, to update and if necessary amend the draft terms
of reference for the study as given in SDV, Annex 9. In order to make as
much use as possible of the construction and O&M experience obtained from the



-27-
Bhairawa Lumbini and Birganj projects the study would be initiated in 1985.
The final report would be submitted by March 1986. It is tentatively
estimated that about 30 man-months would be required for the study, at an
estimated cost of US$10,000 per man-month (Annex 1, Table 17). Qualified
local consultants may be used in collaboration with foreign consultants.
During negotiations HMGN has agreed that consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions are acceptable to IDA, would be employed
by January 31, 1985.
3.49      The proposed credit would include US$1.0 million for the provision
of consultants and training to assist HMGN (DIHM or DOA as the case may be),
in the strengthening of institutions responsible for implementation of
irrigation projects with particular emphasis on supervision of design and
construction contracts. These funds would be allocated to specific projects
by mutual agreement between HMGN and IDA. One likely allocation would be the
funding of consulting services for supervision of the ICB-tender for con-
struction of works under the Sunsari Morang Irrigation and Drainage Project
(Credit 812). Other allocations have not yet been specified in detail with a
view to maintaining flexibility in implementation. The consultants employed
shall be satisfactory to the Association and their terms of reference and
final contracts between HMGN and the consultants would be subject to agree-
ment between HMGN and IDA.  It is expected that most of the technical assis-
tance would be provided by foreign consultants. However, qualified local
consultants may also be used either independently or in collaboration with
foreign firms.
3.50      Training.  Training would be required for staff working in the
fields of: (a) agricultural extension and training, (b) operation and main-
tenance of tubewells systems, (c) planning, design and operation and main-
tenance of the proposed new tubewell designs. The latter is needed because
the equipment and PVC pipe distribution systems to be installed are
unfamiliar to the local engineering staff. The training would be on-the-job
and through special courses, organized and directed by the project consult-
ants. Field excursions to similar tubewell schemes in the state of Uttar
Pradesh in India would form part of the training. A pre-requisite to the
training program would be the compilation of O&M manuals for the Stage I
tubewells as well as design and operation manuals for the new tubewells. The
project consultants would be responsible for the preparation of these
manuals. Details of the training program are provided in SDV, Annex 6.



-28-
G. Birganj Tubewells
General
3.51      The Birganj Irrigation Project (IDA Credit-373) was completed in
mid-1981. 1/ This project included a groundwater component which consisted
of:
(a) testing of 14 existing wells provided in 1968-1969 and-
re-equipping with new pumps, switch gear and ancillary
electrical equipment.
(b) construction of 14 new wells to serve 125 ha each with
yields of about 80 1/sec.
(c) construction of 18 km of 11 kV transmission line and
provision of 11/0.4 kV transformation at wellhead.
(d) construction of pumphouses, night storage reservoirs,
lined channel (about 1.0 km) and unlined channel conveyance
to turnouts commanding chaks of 30-40 ha and drainage
networks in the command of each tubewell.
Performance of the Systems
3.52      The performance of the systems has, with one notable exception,
not been good. Although initially farmers' response to the availability of
water from the tubewells was good, the utilization has steadily declined.
The utilization of the systems operating in 1977 has tended to decrease
through the years often to iess than half of the original levels. The com-
missioning of the new wells and systems was delayed until the 1979 monsoon
season and never achieved a high degree of utilization.
3.53      Various causes can be attributed to the deterioration or failure
to achieve the projected irrigation intensities and crop yields in the
tubewell irrigation systems. The main causes have been:
(a) the introduction of fibre glass casing and screen to
contract drillers who had no experience with this
material; replacement wells were constructed with
1/ Project Completion Report, Birganj Irrigation Project, IDA Credit 373,
June 1982.



-29-
mild steel casing and slotted pipe screen with gravel
packing;
(b) the breakdowns of pump units, starter relays and switch
gear were generally not swiftly repaired, because the
initial stock of spares for pumping units and accessories
had been utilized and had not been replenished and the
project electricians and mechanics had very limited
facilities;
(c) some problems of pilfering have occurred e.g. transformers
were stolen for their copper content;
(d) the night storage reservoirs provided were in most cases
not used; the only well which has achieved good results
continues to use the night storage facility;
(e) the unlined conveyance system was often inadequate and the
system was provided with insufficient division boxes;
(f) the small staff charged with operation and maintenance
of the tubewell systems lacked spares and transport;
(g) absentee pump operators.
Justification for IDA-Assistance
3.54      A relatively modest amount of funding (US$1.5 million) is required
to repair and upgrade the well systems and to strengthen NZIDB operational
performance to maintain acceptable levels of utilization. IDA extended a
second stage credit to the Birganj Irrigation Project in 1978. At that time
the performance of the tubewell systems was quite satisfactory and IDA fund-
ing to maintain or improve the performance was considered unnecessary.
However, since then the performance of the systems has deteriorated. A
further deterioration can be expected to occur unless (i) repairs and
deferred maintenance works are undertaken (ii) a stock of essential spare
parts is procured and (iii) NZIDB's capacity to operate and maintain the
tubewell system and extend agricultural support services is strengthened.
During the first half of 1982, NZIDB redrilled nine wells and thus the stage
is set for a renewed effort to improve the performance of the systems. HMGN
has indicated its inability to raise the required funds to implement the
proposed improvements of the Birganj tubewell systems and requested IDA for
assistance.
Proposed Improvements
3.55      This component includes funding for the repair and improvement of
the 28 Birganj tubewell systems and to convert an observation well at



-30-
Jagannathpur to a production well supplying water to a command area of about
60 ha. The proposed works would be implemented by staff of the Narayani Zone
Irrigation Development Board (NZIDB), who would also be responsible for the
operation, maintenance and future repairs of the tubewell systems. 1/ The
works include the conversion of the Jagannathpur well, construction of 6 km
of lined canals, improvement of 44 km of earthen canals and procurement and
installation through contractors of 5 new pump sets, 70 division boxes, 28
drop-out switches and connection pipes for the 9 redrilled tubewells. The
project would also finance the procurement of necessary spare parts for pumps
and switchgear. To strengthen NZIDB's capacity to properly operate and
maintain the wells and to supply agricultural inputs and support services to
the farmers in the areas commanded by the tubewells, the project would also
finance salaries, allowances, staff quarters, transport and operating expen-
ses for O&M and agricultural project staff over a period of five years.
Agreements have been reached with HMGN that (i) sufficient funds for repair,
improvement and O&M of the Birganj tubewells would be made available directly
to NZIDB and that (ii) the project consultants engaged for the implementation
of the Narayani Zone Irrigation Project (IDA Credit 856) would also assist
NZIDB with the implementation of the proposed improvements of the Birganj
tubewells.
H. Implementation Schedule
3.56      The proposed implementation schedule for all components of the
project is shown in Chart 1. The project would start in November 1982 and
continue through October 1987. During this period the project will con-
centrate on developing and implementing proper O&M procedures and training of
project staff. During the first project year high priority will be given to
complete the implementation of balance Stage I works, to recruit additional
O&iM staff and to establish Water Users Groups. In year two the planning,
design and tender documents for the new tubewells would be completed with
two-thirds of the new wells drilled in the 1984 dry season and the remaining
irn 1985. The construction of the distribution networks and installation of
pumping equipment would start in early 1984 to be completed by mid-1985.
HMGN has agreed that it would furnish to IDA annually the detailed plans for
implementing the project in its next fiscal year.
1/ For a description of NZIDB refer to SAR (Report No. 2067a-NEP) of the
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project of September 1978 (IDA
Credit 856).



-31-
I. Environmental Effects
3.57      The project areas have been under wet season cultivation for many
decades and the introduction of irrigation improvement and the expansion of
dry season cropping is not expected to produce significant changes in
environmental conditions. Water from the tubewells is potable and its
availability is expected to reduce the occurrence of intestinal diseases.
The water delivery through buried pipes proposed under the project is
expected to reduce the potential hazards of malaria.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      Based on June 1982 unit prices, the total cost of the project over
the five-year period 1982-1987 is estimated at US$19.4 M including the
Birganj tubewell improvement component and about US$0.2 M in taxes and
duties. A summary of the project cost is given below. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at about US$12.1 M or 62% of total project cost, on
the basis that all equipment contracts would be supplied from outside Nepal.
The annual operation and maintenance cost, including electricity, staffing,
agricultural services and equipment, vehicles and materials are presented in
Annex 1, Tables 1 to 5. They are based on early 1982 price and salary levels
and for equipment, vehicles and materials on updated quotations from sup-
pliers. The cost for the new tubewell systems is based on evaluation of
equipment performance carried out under the Stage I project, on recent Stage I
contract awards and on recent contracts awards for similar works in the
State of Uttar Pradesh in India. These costs are shown in Annex 1, Tables 6
to 14. The estimated cost for rehabilitation of the Birganj Tubewells are
shown in Tables 15 and 16. The estimated cost of consulting services (Annex I,
Table 16) is based on recently concluded contracts for similar services in
Nepal and other countries in the region. An estimated schedule of annuaL
expenditures is given in Annex 1, Table 18. The early 1982 prices were
increased by 3.5% to arrive at June 1982 prices.
4.02      Physical contingencies of 15% have been added to the cost of civil
works, salaries, allowances and operating expenses. A contingency of 10% has
been added to the cost of equipment, materials, technical assistance and



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Local  Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total  % Foreign           % of
-----NRs million    ----      US$ million------   Exchange   Base Cost
1.Civil Works and Materials
Tubewells 1/                            0.6      6.0     6.6       -       0.5      0.5
Distribution Network 1/                 1.0      8.7      9.7     0.1      0.6      0.7
Roads                                   5.8      1.5      7.3     0.4      0.1      0.5
Drainage                                1.3      0.1      1.4     0.1       -       0.1
Transmission lines 1/                   0.5      4.5     5.0       -       0.4      0.4
Buildings 2/                            7.7      1.9      9.6     0.6      0.2      0.8
Construction materials                  8.8      1.7    10.5      0.7      0.1      0.8
Sub-Total                              25.7    24.4    50.1       1.9      1.9      3.8       50         25.9
2. Land Acquisition                       0.5       -       0.5     0.1       -       0.1       -           0.7
3. Vehicles and Equipment                  -      15.0    15.0       -       1.1      1.1      100          7.5
4. Agricultural Inputs                     -       1.3      1.3      -       0.1      0.1      100          0.7
5. Salaries and Operating Cost           17.8      6.6    24.4      1.3      0.5      1.8       28         12.2
6. Electricity Cost                       2.1      8.5    10.6      0.2      0.6      0.8       80          5.4
7. Technical Assistance and Training   7.3    41.3    48.6          0.6      3.1      3.7       85         25.1
8. Improvement - Birganj Wells            5.8      8.7    14.5      0.4      0.7      1.1       60          7.5
9. Completion of Stage I                 12.8    16.2    29.0       1.0      1.2      2.2       55         15.0
10. Base Cost                             72.0   122.0   194.0       5.5      9.2    14.7        63        100.0
11. Contingencies
Physical                               7.0    14.4    21.4       0.5      1.1      1.6       68         10.9
Price                                 17.1    23.7    40.8       1.3      1.8      3.1       58         21.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST 3/                  96.1   160.1   256.2       7.3    12.1    19.4         62        132.0
1/ includes supply of materials
2/ includes pumphouses
3/ identifiable taxes and duties are about NRs 2.5 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) and the total project
cost net of taxes and duties is NRs 254.2 million (US$19.2 million equivalent).



-33-
training. Price contingencies amount to about 21% of the baseline cost,
based on the following inflation rates:
Fiscal Year
'83    '84    '85    '86    '87    '88
------------------ %-------------------
Local (Nepal)           9.0    8.0    7.5    7.0    6.0    6.0
Foreign                 8.0    7.7    7.2    6.5    6.0    6.0
Financing
4.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 M to HMGN on standard terms and
conditions would finance the foreign cost of the project (US$12.1 M) and
about 53% of the local cost (US$3.9 M), or about 82% of total project cost.
The proposed IDA credit includes an estimated US$1.5 M for retroactive
financing of expenditures incurred from March 1982. HMGN would finance most
of the remaining costs:
Foreign Exchange    Local Currency           Total
US$M       %         US$M         %      US$M         %
IDA       12.1       100       3.9         53       16.0        82
HMGN        -         -        3.2         44        3.2         17
Farmers     -         -        0.2          3        0.2          1
12.1      100        7.3       100       19.4        100
RHMGN would finance the electricity cost needed to run the pumping units in
the Birganj and Bhairawa Lumbini project areas. This cost over the five-year
project implementation period is estimated at NRs 13.4 M based on present
tariffs. The relatively high proportion of IDA cost financing is because
of the strains already imposed on HMGN's budget by a large number of develop-
ment projects. During negotiations it has been agreed that HMGN would submit
to IDA annually estimates of the financial requirements for implementing the
project, on the basis of which it would make the budgetary allocations for
project implementation.
Procurement
4.04      Works.  The works financed under the project would cost
approximately US$5.7 M, excluding engineering and administrative costs, but
including price and physical contingencies. They would be grouped into



-34-
appropriate bidding packages with a primary goal of generating maximum com-
petition.
(a)  International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  The construction
of roads, the supply and installation of the PVC pipe
conveyance system and the supply and erection of the
power transmission lines, totalling approximately US$2.3 M, or
40% of the works, would be contracted through ICB. Eligible
domestic bidders would be entitled to a preference of 7 1/2%.
(b)  Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).  The construction of the
drainage systems, buildings and other minor works
each less than US$50,000 in value, scattered throughout the
project area, would not be of interest to foreign bidders.
Approximately US$2.6 M, or 45% of all the works would be carried
out by contractors under LCB procedures that would be acceptable
to the Group. This includes most of the balance Stage I
civil works.
(c)  Force Account.  The remaining US$0.8 M, or 15% of the
works, would be constructed by force account. These works
include the drilling, development, testing of tubewells and
improvement of Birganj wells, mainly using equipment already on
hand.
4.05      Goods.  The total cost of goods financed under the project is
estimated to be US$4.8 M, including physical and price contingencies. All
the goods would be grouped into appropriate bidding packages to promote
maximum competition. Over 75% would be procured through ICB. Qualified
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in ICB bid evaluation of
15% of CIF price or the import duty, whichever is lower. Not more than 25%
of the goods would be procured through LCB and that would be restricted to
the basic construction materials such as brick, stone, cement or urgently
required spare parts for operation and maintenance.
4.06      Contract Review.  All bidding packages estimated to cost US$50,000
equivalent or more, 90% of all the procurement by value, would be subject to
IDA's prior review. The remaining contracts would be subject to post-review
by IDA.
Disbursements
4.07      Disbursements from the credit would extend over five years and
would be against:
(a)  Materials, equipment, agricultural inputs, vehicles and spare
parts - 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 75% of other local expenditures;



-35-
(b) Technical assistance and overseas training - 100%;
(c) Staff salaries, local training, allowances and operating costs
exclusive of electricity costs - 50%
(d) Civil works -
(i)  Contracted - 100% of foreign expenditures and 75%
of local expenditures
(ii) Force account - 40% of local expenditures
Withdrawal applications under (a), (b) and (d)(i) would be fully documented.
Disbursements for items (c) and (d)(ii) would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by the project manager. The relevant supporting
documentation for statements of expenditure disbursements would be retained
at one central location and made available for inspection by IDA staff on
request. Expenditures financed under statements of expenditures would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Group. Withdrawal
applications would be prepared and submitted by the Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project Office, except for the applications related to the
Birganj tubewell component which would be prepared by the Narayani Zone
Irrigation Development Board. A schedule of estimated disbursements and the
proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit are presented in Annex 1,
Table 19. The disbursement categories and percentages apply also to disbur-
sements against expenditures incurred on the completion of Stage I. Disbur-
sements are expected to be completed by November 1988, about one year after
the scheduled completion of the project.
Accounts and Audits
4.08      Assurances would be obtained during negotiations that HMGN would
cause the project manager:
(a) to establish and maintain separate accounts for the project,
in accordance with sound accounting practices;
(b) to have its accounts and financial statements audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(c) to send the certified copies of the audited accounts and
the auditor's report to IDA within six months after the close
of each fiscal year.
The audit report would be required to include, inter alia, a statement that
funds disbursed against statements of expenditure, had been used for the
purpose for which they were provided.



-36-
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      General.  An important objective of the project is to build up a
long term capacity of staff and institutions to construct, operate and main-
tain the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Development Project and future similar
projects elsewhere in Nepal. The proposed project would concentrate on
planning and implementing sound O&M activities. During Stage I the implemen-
tation of the project was basically carried out by existing line agencies
which were brought together in the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
Office. The office was set up under a special arrangement to insure coordina-
tion among the agencies. The project office was headed by a project manager,
who was responsible to the Groundwater Resources Development Board (GRDB) for
programming, budgeting and finance and who coordinated all project com-
ponents. The above organizational set up has operated satisfactorily. No
major changes are recommended in the Stage II project. However, in view of
the importance of O&M, its functions would be separated from construction.
Staff assigned to O&M functions would work full-time on these activities.
HMGN has agreed to make these adjustments and to strengthen the existing
organization (Chart 2).
5.02      The Governing Authorities.  The governing authority responsible
for the implementation of the project would be the DIHM in the Ministry of
Water Resources. Advice and overall coordination on all policy matters would
continue to be vested in the GRDB. HMGN has agreed to strengthen the role of
the Board. In addition to their policy responsibilities the GRDB main func-
tions would also include:
(a)  approval of key staff appointments;
(b)  approval of annual budget proposals for executing the project;
(c)  approval of award of large contracts and consultant's agreements;
(d)  semi-annual reviews of implementation programs and progress.
The Board would continue to be chaired by the Secretary to Government of the
Ministry of Water Resources. Members would be representatives from the
Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs, Panchayat and Local Development, the
Planning Commission, the Director General of DIHM, representatives of the
Departments of Agriculture and Electricity, and the general manager of ADBN.
The chief of the groundwater section in DIHM will function as member
secretary of the Board. In order to improve coordination and ensure that
actions requiring board approval are quickly brought to their attention, HMGN
has agreed that the project manager would be an observer in the GRDB for all
matters relating to the project. The order which established the board
includes a provision to add new members as appropriate.



-37-
5.03      Project Management.  The project manager, who would have qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to IDA, would be based at project head-
quarters in Bhairawa. He would have the following main responsibilities.
(a) to implement the project in accordance with the agreed time
schedule;
(b) to prepare annual implementation progress and budget proposals
for approval by GRDB;
(c) to manage and administer all project staff, including the
consultants;
(d) to authorize project works to be implemented on force account;
(e) to prepare tender documentation for procurement of services
and equipment;
(f) to coordinate all project activities at the project and district
levels; and
(g) to report periodically to the GRDB and DIHM.
The project manager will have four divisions under him. A General
Administration and Finance Division responsible for personnel, procurement,
collection of water charges, budgeting, finance, accounts and audit, stores,
inventory control of supplies and equipment. The division would consist of
the following six sections: administration, finance and accounts, stores,
procurement, legal matters and water charges. The Construction Division
would consist of an engineering and a geohydrological or drilling
sub-division. The engineering sub-division would have sections dealing with
survey, planning, design and construction supervision of the distribution
system, drainage system, pumphouses, roads and project buildings including
the buildings required by agricultural extension service in the Rupandehi
district. The drilling sub-division would be responsible for well construc-
tion and development. The Operation and Maintenance Division would be headed
by an executive engineer who would supervise two sub-divisions; one dealing
with the O&M of the distribution network including the preparation of water
delivery schedules, and with the maintenance of the village roads. A
separate section would be responsible for assisting farmers in planning and
constructing field channels from the outlets to the fields. The second
sub-division would mainly deal with mechanical and electrical engineering.
It would supervise the running of the workshop and stores and the O&M of the
pumping equipment, vehicles and the project's O&M construction equipment.
The sub-divisions are headed by assistant engineers and the sections by
overseers. The Agricultural Division will be headed by an Agricultural



-38-
Officer (AO) who would look after two main activities: agricultural exten-
sion, and organizing farmers into water users groups. This division would
closely coordinate with the O&M division in the field of water management, in
particular, with regard to the planning and construction of field channels.
It would be responsible for the establishment and functioning of the water
users groups. The AO would work full-time on the project and would report on
technical matters to the Department of Agriculture. For administrative
matters and budget, he would be responsible to the project manager. The
Agricultural Division's budget requests and releases would be channelled
through the project manager. The implementation of the agricultural exten-
sion T&V system in the rest of the district would be under the responsibility
of the DADO.
5.04      Project Coordination.  Coordination at the national level would
be the task of the GRDB. At the project level a framework for coordination
exists in the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC). This committee, chaired
by the Chief District Officer, was set up to function as a forum for those
directly involved in development in the District. It does not have executive
powers. The committee would be expanded to include as associate members, the
district managers of AIC, NFC and representatives of other agricultural
institutions operating in or near the project areas. The committee would
meet at least twice a year. The meetings would be convened by the project
manager, who would be member secretary of the PCC.
Farmer's organizations
5.05      The project would be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the pumping equipment, canals and structures as well as pipe distribution
networks down to the 4-5 ha outlets. The water users groups to be estab-
lished for each tubewell command area would provide assistance to the project
officers in drawing up the rotational water distribution schedules and in the
actual implementation thereof. The water users group, which is headed by a
water master and one or more assistants, would supervise proper implementa-
tion of the rotational supply schedules to and below the 4-5 ha outlets. It
also would play a key role in the planning, construction and the O&M of field
channels below the 4-5 ha outlets. It has been agreed with HMGN that the
project would continue its efforts to convince the farmers to carry out the
construction of the field channels at their own expense. If farmers fail to
do so, the project would undertake the construction of the field channels.
The field channel construction cost is estimated at about US$150,000.
5.06      Under the Stage I project the establishment of water users groups
has progressed slowly. HMGN had agreed not to start the drilling of a
tubewell until a two-third majority of the potential beneficiaries in the
service area had signed up in a water users groups and have agreed to pay
water charges. This policy was not strictly followed. As a result no formal
water users groups exist in the majority of the Stage I tubewell schemes.
Since properly functioning water users groups and the existence of field



-39-
channels below the 4-5 ha outlets are considered key elements in achieving
the successful and equitable distribution of water down to each farmer's
field, HMGN would give the highest priority to the formation of water users
groups and the construction of field channels in the tubewell command
areas. HHGN has agreed that (a) no water would be supplied from com-
pleted well systems until water users groups have been set up and are ready
to assume the responsibility of water distribution below the 4-5 ha project
outlet (b) that the drilling of any of the fifteen new tubewells would not
start until two-thirds of the beneficiaries have formally agreed to form a
water users groups and to pay water charges.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.07      The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation activities under
the project are to:
(a) monitor the cost, impact and economic benefits of the project;
(b)  provide feedback to project management;
(c)  develop improved criteria for planning, design, construction
and operation and maintenance of future groundwater development
projects;
(d)  compare the performance and cost of the Stage I tubewells and
distribution networks with the fifteen pilot wells introduced
under the project;
(e)  monitoring of the water table depth, through measurements from
the observation well network.
5.08      A special unit, directly under the project manager, would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation activities of the project. HMGN
has agreed to establish such a unit and to staff it with an engineer, an
agricultural officer and a statistician. As a general rule the unit would
not collect data itself but would rely on information from the four divisions
in the project organization. It would process and review the data and report
the results of the studies. In carrying out its tasks the unit would be
assisted by project consultants. Towards the end of project implementation,
the project staff, assisted by the project consultants, would prepare a
project completion report, which would be completed within six months after
the final disbursement from the credit and submitted to IDA. The existing
groundwater monitoring unit would be integrated in the new evaluation and
monitoring unit to be established directly under the project manager. A
detailed description of the monitoring, evaluation and reporting requirements
are given in SDV Annex 7.



-40-
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Cropping Patterns
6.01      The major crop grown in the wet season is paddy, occupying some
85-90% of the cropped area. Early and normal paddies are grown in the area.
Early paddy is transplanted at the beginning of monsoon rains and harvested
in August. Normal paddy is transplanted in July and harvested in November-
December. Other wet season crops include maize (3%) and pulses (2%). During
the dry season, wheat is planted on some 12-18% of the areas cropped during
the wet season. Half of the wheat is grown on residual soil moisture follow-
ing paddy and the remaining area enjoys until January some form of irrigation
from the existing farmers' irrigation systems (para. 2.08). Other crops are
oilseeds (5%) and grams (3%), which are grown without irrigation. The
present cropping intensity in the project area is about 120%. Details of the
existing cropping pattern are shown in SDV Annex 3, Table 13.
6.02      The present and projected future cropping patterns for the "without
project" situation are based on available statistics, a survey of the project
area and discussions with agricultural staff and farmers in the project
areas. Future cropping patterns for the "with project" situation are
projected in a similar fashion by taking into account two major factors:
(i) the capacity constraint of supplying irrigation water for land prepara-
tion and transplanting of paddy in the wet season; and (ii) the optimum time
for wheat sowing in the dry season (Chart 3). In the monsoon season, paddy
would continue to be the dominant crop. With improved water distribution and
regulation and intensified extension services, it is projected that the area
cultivated with local paddy varieties would decline, while the area cropped
with HYV paddy would increase. In the dry season, wheat is expected to
remain the principal crop. The area under maize, oilseeds, pulses and, to a
lesser extent, sugarcane would also expand under the project. Some
vegetables, in particular, potatoes and brassica, would be grown for home
consumption and local markets. The cropping intensity at full development is
estimated at 175-180% as compared with about 120% at present (SDV Annex 3,
Table 13).
Crop Yields
6.03      About 60% of the paddy grown in the project area consists of local
varieties producing low yields. For early local paddy, the farmers use short
maturing coarse grain varieties (Saraia and Padhani) which yield between
0.9-1.4 ton/ha. In low-lying areas farmers grow normal 1/ paddy, for which
long maturing fine grain improved varieties (Masuli and Basmati) are used.
1/ "Normal" refers to the time of sowing and transplanting (June/July).



-41-
Yields are low, 1.1-1.3 ton/ha, mainly due to lodging and poor water manage-
ment and cultural practices. Some early high yielding varieties (CH45,
Chandina and Durga) are grown in a limited area under irrigated condition.
Their yields, about 2.1 ton/ha, are low because of poor cultural practices.
Normal HYV, such as Savitri and Janaki, which mature in 135 days produce
yields of about 1.5 ton/ha for rainfed and 1.9 ton/ha for irrigated paddy.
Maize is sown mostly in the wet season using improved varieties (Rampur
Yellow and Rampur Composite), with low yields of about 1.5 ton/ha, due to
inadequate use of fertilizer and plant protection chemicals. RR 21 and
UP 262 are the two major wheat varieties grown in the area. The present
yield of wheat ranges between 1.0-1.3 ton/ha. These low yields are
attributed to unavailability of irrigation and untimely planting. Yields
would improve considerably if wheat is planted around mid-November. Pulses
are grown for home consumption and their low yields of about 0.3-0.5 ton/ha
offer scope of improvement with only moderate irrigation. Oilseed crops
grown are mustard and rapeseed. Because of poor crop management, yields are
only 0.4 ton/ha. In general, as farmers rely for crop cultivation mostly on
rainfall during the wet season and residual moisture in the dry season, they
tend to use local varieties, practice traditional cultural methods and apply
limited amounts of fertilizer and plant protection chemicals. As a result,
the crops produce low yields. Yield estimates with and without project are
summarized in SDV Annex 8, Tables 5A and 5E.
6.04      Future small increases in HYV paddy and wheat yields are possible
in the "without project" situation, provided farmers use good quality seeds
and apply improved methods of cultivation.  In the "with project" situation
yields of HYV paddy are estimated to reach 3.4 ton/ha, local paddy varieties
2.5-2.7 ton/ha, maize 2.5 ton/ha (wet season) and 2.8 ton/ha (dry season),
wheat 2.9 ton/ha, pulses 0.6-0.9 ton/ha and oilseeds 0.7 ton/ha. The yield
of sugarcane is estimated to reach about 40 ton/ha. These increases in
yields reflect better water regulation, timely and more thorough land
preparation, increased use of fertilizer, good quality seed, improved weed
and pest control, improved cultivation and planting techniques, and timely
harvest and threshing. The projected yield levels are therefore conditioned
to an effectively operating extension service.
Agricultural Production
6.05      Based on the expected future cropping patterns and yield levels,
the annual incremental production at full development (early 1990's) is
projected as follows:



-42-
Future           Future     Incremental
Without Project   With Project  Production
-- -------------' 000 ton------------------
Foodgrains a/                14.6              41.9          27.3
Pulses                        0.3                0.9          0.6
Oilcrops b/                   0.3               0.6           0.3
Vegetables c/                  - d/              8.5         <8.5
Sugarcane                     1.7               7.5           5.8
a/ Includes paddy, wheat and maize.
b/  Mainly mustard and linseed.
c/ Potato and brasicca.
d/ No estimate available.
Input Requirements
6.06      Present use of fertilizer is minimal and its use is mostly limited
to paddy, wheat and maize. Local statistics show that in 1980/81 the project
district received about 750 ton of nitrogen, 270 ton of phosphorus and 50 ton
of muriate of potash, which corresponds to an application of about 8 kg of
nitrogen, 3 kg of phosphorus and less than 1 kg of muriate of potash per
cropped ha. The use of plant protection chemicals at present is negligible
except for a limited application of insecticides to paddy, wheat and maize.
Local statistics also show that in 1980/81 less than 2% of the farmers used
good quality seeds (paddy, wheat and maize); most farmers meet their seed
requirements from their previous harvests. The average family owns about 3
draft animals, small farmers normally own one pair. These animals provide
adequate farm power for general farming practices. Mechanized farmers are
very rare.
6.07      Present and projected input requirements are presented in SDV
Annex 8, Tables 5A-H. For the future "with project" situation, about 250 ton
of good quality seeds (90 ton for paddy and 160 ton for wheat and 6 ton for
maize when replaced every three years) would be needed. It is estimated that
on average about 1,200 ton of fertilizer nutrient would be required annually
until the project reaches full development. About 1,750 ton of fertilizer
nutrient (1,040 ton of nitrogen, 440 ton of phosphate and 370 ton of potash)
would be required annually thereafter. With the Stage 1 project providing
for eight input storage units of 100 ton capacity each for use by local
sajhas the present project would include provisions for an additional five
100 ton units only. These facilities would be sufficient to meet the
projected input demand. HMGN has agreed that sufficient quantities of
agricultural inputs would be made available by AIC to meet the needs of the
project.



-43-
6.08      Short-term (production) credit for the purchase of fertilizer,
seeds, pesticides and payment for hired labor and bullock teams is provided
to project farmers by ADBN and private money lenders. Under project condi-
tions it is estimated that the annual incremental requirement for production
credit would amount to NRs 14 million. This figure is based on a 1.5 ha farm
requiring farm inputs at an annual cost of NRs 2,200 (SDV Annex 8, Table 9B).
It is estimated that the average farmer would need to borrow about NRs 1,500
annually from ADBN, with the balance being provided from savings or current
income. ADBN through its zonal office in Bhairawa is not expected to have
difficulties to meet the increased need for production credit in the project
area. The production credits are normally channelled to the farmers through
the cooperatives. During negotiations HMGN has agreed that it would make
funds available annually to meet the production credit needs of the project
farmers. The supply of medium and long-term credit for farmers in the
Rupandehi district is being strengthened under the ongoing ADB assisted
fourth Agricultural Credit Project.
6.09     During the first years of operation, the project would purchase
seeds, fertilizer and pesticides to be used as input requirements for the
growing of major crops in about 150 ha. The inputs would be provided to
carefully selected progressive farmers in at least 10 tubewell command areas
and would be sufficient to achieve projected production levels as tested in
demonstration plots in the project or at the Bhairawa Research Station.  As a
condition for supplying the inputs the farmers participating in the scheme
would have to sign an agreement to repay the project the full cost of the
inputs, after it has been measured that their crop production has increased
beyond a predetermined level.  The prime objective of this experiment is to
(i) to show and convince the farming community in the project that it is
essential to apply inputs in order to get high production levels and (ii) to
reduce their reluctancy to seek short-term production credit for which
present procedures are cumbersome and require a land ownership title. The
project includes US$100,000 to purchase the required inputs.
Market Prospects and Prices
6.10      The project area would be well connected by all-wheather village
roads to the marketing center Bhairawa, which delivers to markets throughout
central and western Nepal, as well as India. The potential market for
production from the project is therefore large. However, the production
increase, although substantial percentagewise, is small in relation to the
market. Marketing of the project surplus produce is not expected to pose any
significant problem to farmers, since a well established trading system
through private dealers would take care of disposing the surplus. Most
farmers would continue to receive unfavorable prices because they have to
sell crops at harvest time for want of suitable storage and for repayment of
loans. It is envisaged that the creation, under the project, of more storage
capacity at local cooperatives and better training of cooperative staff will
allow the farming community to store part of their produce for some time and



-44-
to reap the benefit of higher seasonal prices. The district is also planning
to set up cold storage facilities for potatoes. Increased sugarcane produc-
tion would find ready buyers at the Bhairawa sugarmill which is chronically
working below capacity.
6.11      No major changes in crop prices are foreseen.  Due to reasons
explained in SDV Annex 8, paddy and maize are expected to rise by some 4%
over a 5-10 year period in relative terms. Prices of pulses and oilseeds,
which in the past rose more rapidly than the general price level, are
expected to increase further in relative terms, by some 5% over a similar
period.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Changes in Farm Incomes
7.01      In order to assess the project's impact on farmers' incomes, the
population of farms has been divided into five size classes. For each class
farm budgets with and without project have been estimated. Apart from size,
farm models differ in the cropping intensities and cropping patterns at
present and with the project, in the use of hired labor, and in the ratio of
family members to available land. The main characteristics of these models
are given in SDV Annex 8, Table 8. Estimated farm budgets are presented in
SDV Annex 8 Tables 9A to E. More detailed assumptions on the derivation of
farm incomes are given in SDV Annex 8.
7.02      Average farm income from crop-production before payment of water
charges of water charges would rise by about 215%. Total family income would
rise only by about 150%, since it includes income from other sources which
has been left constant. Smaller farms would experience lesser increases than
larger farms. Under the assumptions, the distribution of incomes with
project would be slightly more skewed than without the project. About 50% of
all incremental income would accrue to about 20% of the largest farms, while
these farms receive at present an estimated 35% share of total income. The
shares in incremental income are about the same as the shares in total area,
reflecting the fact that benefits from irrigation are closely linked to the
land distribution. Not taken into account are benefits to other segments of
the local population such as landless laborers, for whom there would be
greater seasonal employment opportunities, and to migrant laborers from the
Hills. Future changes in the distribution of irrigated operational holdings
(through sales of land and/or changes in land leased in and out) resulting
from the project are quite uncertain and have not been assessed. The changes
in income for different farm size classes are summarized in SDV Annex 3,
Table 14. Income estimates are based on the present situation in the Stage I
area. Present incomes in the new tubewell area are estimated to be somewhat



-45-
lower, due to the lack of irrigation. Increases would therefore be cor-
respondingly higher than in the Stage I area.
Impact on Poverty
7.03      Per capita incomes range at present from about NRs 540 (US$41) to
NRs 1,360 (US$103), averaging about NRs 890 (US$67). This compares to an
estimated national per capita income (in 1982) of NRs 1,900 (US$144). None
of the farm size classes presently reach the national average income level,
although individual farms in the highest classes may exceed it. The absolute
poverty level for the project area has been estimated at about NRs 1,050
(US$80) per capita 1/. About 90-95% of all farm households and 85-90% of the
farming population live presently at or below this poverty level. If land-
less laborers and farmers in the new tubewell development area were included,
these percentages may be even higher.
7.04      At full development, average per capita income before water charges
would increase to about NRs 2,225 (US$169),2/ higher than the national per
capita income projected for that time 3/ of NRs 2,050 (US$155). Again, all
farmsize classes would not benefit equally from this increase.  For the
smallest farm the increase (over future without project levels) would be only
about 65% as against 260% for the largest farms. All classes but the smal-
lest would exceed the poverty level, reducing the estimated percentage of
farm families to about 25-30% (20-25% of farming population), not including
the landless.
Cost Recovery
7.05      Introduction.  The Bhairawa-Lumbini Project is the first sizeable
public groundwater scheme in Nepal. HMGN faces the issue of comparatively
high recurrent cost with the potential of substantial strain on public funds.
This may not yet materialize through the proposed project, but certainly at a
later stage when the public groundwater irrigation sector would be expanded.
A new look at cost recovery policies, which have been neglected so far, is
required. The following analysis and recommendations are made with two
particular objectives in mind: firstly to assure economically efficient use
of costly water; and secondly to strengthen Nepal's public savings perfor-
mance through relatively high resource mobilization from the project.
1/ Based on a minimum caloric requirement of 2,100 Kcal, worth about NRs 680
at pesent farmgate prices, and other minimum consumption requirements
(from surveys) of about NRs 370 per capita.
2y' Ranging from about NRs 900 to NRs 5,100 (see SDV Annex 3, Table 14).
3/ About 1992.



-46-
7.06      Recoverable Cost.  For purposes of cost recovery, total estimated
capital and recurrent cost has been adjusted and separated into two parts
(see Annex 1, Table 20):
(i)  Long-term investment cost, i.e. that part of capital cost that
is not related to the degree of utilization of tubewells, and
fixed O&M cost, i.e. O&M cost that does not vary appreciably
with the number of running hours per year. This cost is
considered fixed project cost. All cost items were expressed
in present value terms and in 1982 Rupees. (Sunk cost of the
Stage I Project, however, does not include cumulative interest
for the duration of project implementation (FY78-82)). The cost
of technical assistance and village roads was excluded.
Annuities corresponding to fixed project cost were calculated at
10% interest, and related to the number of hectares served.
(ii)  Investments that need to be replaced after some time as a function
of tubewell utilization, namely wells and pumpsets, and variable
O&M cost (energy cost and other operating expenses) have been
added together as variable project cost. Wells were assumed to
last about 20 years or 55,000 hours of pumping, and pumpsets about
7 years or 19,000 hours of pumping. Present values of these cost
items include the discounted values of appropriate replacement
costs at regular intervals during a 30-year project horizon, and
the residual values of wells at the end of 30 years. Replaceable
investments and energy cost were estimated in present value terms
in constant 1982 Rupees, both in economic and financial prices.
They were related to the "present value" of pumping hours during
the 30-year project period, 1/ to arrive at an estimate of the
long-run marginal cost of pumped water.
7.07      The result of the separation of recoverable costs is summarized
below (details in Annex 1, Table 20):
1/ 1.61 M hours for Stage I tubewells, 0.32 M hours for new tubewells



-47-
Recoverable Project Cost
(NRs)
Existing         New           Sum/Weighted
Wells           Wells            Average
(7,600 ha)    (1,800 ha)        (9,400 ha)
1.   Fixed Cost
- Present Value                  147.8 M         25.6 M           173.4 M
- Annuity per Ha                  1995           1450              1890
2.a) Financial Variable Cost
- Present Value                  102.2 M         15.7 M           117.9 M
- Marginal Cost per Hour          63.4           49.0                -
- Marginal Cost per m3           0.223          0.176            0.213
2.b) Economic Variable Cost
- Present Value                  135.1 M         19.9 M           155.0 M
- Marginal Cost per Hour          83.9           62.1                -
- Marginal Cost per m3           0.295          0.223             0.282
at Field 1/
7.08      For economic efficiency and if full cost recovery were the target,
farmers would be charged on a volumetric basis at a price equal to the
long-run marginal cost of pumping, in addition to a flat rate equal to the
annuity of fixed cost per unit area. The use of economic marginal cost for
volumetric pricing would ensure economic efficiency of water use and water
allocation between crops, but it would recover more than the actual financial
cost of running the tubewells. For full financial cost recovery, the fixed
charge could in this case be lower than indicated by the annuity. It should
be noted that the concept of long-run marginal cost, economic or financial,
implies in part a recovery of investment cost (that of replaceable items,
pumpsets and wells), and is therefore not related to the actual cash flow of
O&M expenditure for the project.
1/ Long-run marginal cost, which includes recuperation of replaceable
investments; the short-run marginal cost (mainly pumping cost) would
amount to NRs 0.138/m3 and NRs 0.081/m3, respectively, at the field, with a
weighted average of NRs 0.127/m3.



-48-
7.09      Farmers Ability to Pay.  For each of the five farmsize classes
(para 7.01) the incremental land rent, or project rent, has been estimated.
It is defined as incremental income less allowances for incremental deprecia-
tion, use of own resources (family labor, bullock labor), for perceived risk
and management services. As such it measures the net incentive for par-
ticipating farmers resulting from the project. Theoretically, if the entire
project rent (if known) were taxed away, a farmer would be left with only a
marginal incentive to participate in the irrigation scheme. In practice, the
project rent is in part a subjective value and can only be estimated within
broad tolerances. Insofar as redistribution of incomes is an objective, the
project rent is not fully available for cost recovery. Estimates for the
project rent vary between NRs 3,000 and NRs 3,700 per ha at full development
(see SDV Annex 8, Tables 9A-E), and average about NRs 3,500/ha. Project rent
would be somewhat higher for the new tubewell schemes. The present value of
the project rent, for each farm size class and for the entire Stage I area,
is shown in Annex 1, Table 21.
7.10      Approach to a Practical Cost Recovery Policy.  Present water rates
in public irrigation schemes, most of which are surface water schemes, are
very low. Charges are on the basis of a flat rate of about NRs 100 per ha
and per crop. 1/ While this level is far from sufficient to recover cost
fully, it approximates roughly the O&M cost of surface water schemes. This
is in line with a general tendency of HMGN to tax the agricultural sector as
little as possible, and to subsidize agricultural infrastructure and serv-
ices, as well as fertilizers. Land taxes have remained unchanged and low for
many years, and they do not reflect the availability of irrigation. Indirect
agricultural taxes are virtually non-existent. It is in this context that
the potential for cost recovery from a high-cost project, particularly for
its operation, is seen as rather limited. It may, for instance, not be
politically acceptable to charge widely differing rates for different sources
of water. In this case, however, it can be argued that the reliability and
timeliness of service from public tubewells is superior to those of public
surface water schemes, (especially if the proposed new technology with piped
distribution proves successful), and is therefore worth a higher price.
7.11      With regard to the level of charges possible under the proposed
project, it should be noted that the estimates of average project rent,
although fairly similar over different farm-sizes, imply a good measure of
uncertainty; in addition, actual project rents for individual farmers may
vary widely due to a number of personal, social and physical factors. In
particular, it is suspected that more farmers than is apparent from surveys
are actually tenants. While they have to share about one-half of their crops
with the landlord, they pay usually all input costs themselves, including
1/ The rate also applies to the Birganj tubewells, so far the only sizable
public tubewell scheme in Nepal.



-49-
water charges. Their ability to pay would therefore be lower than estimated
for the "average" farmer. Hence, the setting of water charges would require
caution in order not to depress incentives to the point of non-participation
and not to create unwanted distributional effects. For these reasons, a cost
recovery target level of about 30% of average project rent at full develop-
ment or about NRs 1,000 per ha, appears to be reasonable albeit five to six
times higher than in existing public irrigation schemes.
7.12      If a volumetric charge corresponding to the long-run marginal cost
of water at the field 1/ were charged to all farmers equally, annual revenue
at full development would amount to about NRs 1560-1920 per ha. This would
be in excess of what appears feasible, resulting in average rent recovery
ratios at full development of about 63% for the smallest and 43% for the
largest farmers. Moreover, the possibility of a fixed charge, which is
desirable to reflect the benefit from being able to rely on the system at
all times, even with very low actual utilization, would be ruled out. As a
second-best solution, it would still be possible to achieve economic
efficiency in a limited sense, if the volumetric charge were equal to the
short-run marginal cost of water (in economic terms), which excludes wells
and pumpsets as variable cost elements and leaves basically the cost of power
and other operating expenses as marginal cost. With such a volumetric
charge 2/, revenue per ha at full development would approximately be
NRs 700-870, corresponding to an average rent recovery of about 29% for the
smallest and 19% for the largest farmers. This would leave room for an
additional fixed charge, which could be tailored to discriminate among income
classes and between tenants and owners, as far as this appears practical and
desirable. Alternatively, HMGN may consider changing the land tax legisla-
tion by incorporating a surcharge for access to public irrigation water,
thereby discriminating implicitly between owners who pay land tax and tenants
who do not, and narrowing the gap between recovery levels for this project
and other public irrigation schemes.
7.13      There are, however, practical problems with volumetric charging in
the existing tubewell schemes, and to a lesser extent in the proposed new
scheme. Charging would most practically be done by hours of service
received, of which records would be kept by the pump operators. This is
present practice in a number of smaller tubewell commands (50-60 ha), run by
the Department of Agriculture. In this case, farmers have to pay up front
for the hour; the price varies according to the discharge at the well head.
In the larger systems under this project, the additional difficulty of rota-
tional distribution with more than one farmer receiving water at any one
time, and of conveyance losses in the unlined canal systems which vary
1/  Weighted average of NRs 0.282/m3 for existing and new tubewells.
2/ Weighted average of NRs 0.127/m3 at field.



-50-
according to the location of a farmer on a distribution channel, complicate
the determination of a fair price per running hour. While pump operators may
be allowed to adjust for the irregularities, within limits, by varying either
the charge or the "length of an hour", practical reasons dictate an average
price per hour, based on average conveyance efficiencies and related flows
received. It does not appear impractical, however, to have an hourly charge
in the new tubewell systems different from that in the existing ones.
Economic efficiency of water use may be further enhanced by charging dif-
ferent prices in the wet season than in the dry season, reflecting different
marginal costs of power in these seasons.
7.14      During negotiations, HMGN agreed to the following:
(a) A new system of water charges, satisfactory to IDA, would
be introduced for public tubewell irrigation schemes by
March 31, 1984.
(b) The new system would 'include a volumetric charge per
hour, based on an estimate of short-run marginal economic
cost of pumping per volume of water normally received by
a farmer at the turnout or field during an hour of
service.
(c) In order to achieve a minimum rate of cost recovery
and considering desired distributional effects and the
need to protect marginal farmers and tenants from
excessive charges, a fixed charge per ha would be levied
with higher charges for selected groups of farmers, or,
if this does not appear practical or feasible, for all
farmers. (Such a fixed rate may be incorporated into a
revised land tax).
(d) HMGN would establish by March 1, 1983 a technical
committee with the task of working out a practical pro-
posal on the implementation of items (a) to (d). A
draft proposal would be issued by the committee by
December 31, 1983 for the consideration of HMGN and of
IDA.
(e) Until such time as a new charging system is in place,
(by March 31, 1984) HMGN would continue to charge
the present rate for public irrigation systems.
Farmers would be informed at commissioning of
of tubewell commands that higher rates would
be introduced at a later stage.



-51-
7.15      Projected Level of Cost Recovery.  The exact level and structure
of water charges cannot be given at this time. Projections of revenue from
water charges for the entire Stage I area 1/ and for farmsize classes, have
been based on the following assumptions:
- no fixed charge per ha for farms with less than about 2 ha;
- fixed charge of NRs 200/ha for all other farms from the
first year after commissioning of tubewells;
- no volumetric charge for the first 2 years after
commissioning of tubewells;
- volumetric charge of NRs 12 per 100 m3 at the
outlet (final level);
- stepwise increase of volumetric charge from 33% over 50%
and 75% to 100% (year 6) of final level;
7.16      Projected water charges over the years for each farmsize are shown
in SDV, Annex 8, Table 10. The average charge per ha would be about NRs 1000
in year 6. The present values of revenue thus projected are given in
Annex 1, Table 21. The average rent recovery index would be about 33%,
varying from 28% to 37%. While it may be desirable to have a higher index
for the larger farms, the scope for achieving this is limited, because
(i) smaller farms are likely to have higher irrigation intensities and there-
fore higher volumetric charges per ha, and (ii) a progressive fixed rate to
compensate for this would be impractical. Overall cost recovery would be
about 23% of estimated cost. Per capita income after water charges would
range from NRs 820 to NRs 4380 and average about NRs 1950 (US$148), slightly
lower than the projected national per capita income (NRs 2050, US$155). An
estimated 30-35% of farm households would remain below the projected poverty
threshold of US$81 per capita, compared to 90-95% without project.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
8.01      General.  The project would change the conditions under which
agriculture in the project area is traditionally operating. Improved irriga-
tion and drainage in the tubewell schemes would provide farmers with a more
1/  The projections would be similar for the new tubewell area, but have been
omitted.



-52-
reliable supply of water, reduce dependence on erratic monsoon rainfall and
thus increase the incentives for higher input application and adoption of
advanced farming practices. Project benefits would be generated through:
(i) completion and proper operation and maintenance of 64 tubewells,
serving 7,600 ha and about 3,800 farm families, thereby assuring
reliable deliveries of water to farmers' fields, facilitating the
transition from traditional to modern intensive cropping
practices, reducing farmers' risks and increasing substantially
marketable surplus and their incomes;
(ii) introduction of a promising new technology, in the Nepalese
context, of water distribution through pipe conveyance systems
in fifteen new tubewells, serving 1,800 ha and about 900 farms;
(iii) provision of technical assistance to and training of Nepalese
engineers and agronomists in operation and maintenance of
tubewell schemes, water management and agricultural extension;
(iv) rehabilitation of malfunctioning tubewells in the Narayani
Zone Irrigation Project;
8.02      The project's specific benefits from existing and proposed new
tubewell schemes are quantified as follows:
Estimated Project Benefits
Farm families to benefit:                        approx. 4,700
of which presently below poverty level:         approx. 4,300
Increase in Cropped Area:
Increase in Production                           - 5,300 ha (+47%)
-  Foodgrains                                  + 27,300 t (+185%)
-  Other Crops (at financial prices)           + NRs 17 M (+490%)
-  Total (at financial prices)                 + NRs 70 M (+215%)
Increase in Agricultural Employment              - 0.76 M Mandays
(+63%)
8.03      Production Benefits.  The project would, at full development,
increase foodgrain production by about 27,300 ton, equivalent to an increase
of about 185% over production without tubewell irrigation. Incremental rice
production would help save foreign exchange, most likely by substituting for
imports, rather than through exports. Increased surpluses of wheat would be
available for export to India or for covering the foodgrain needs in the
Hills and Urban areas. Increased maize production would be available for
distribution in the Hills, where it is a staple crop and where its production



-53-
has been stagnant for many years. Additional production of pulses would
alleviate a growing countrywide scarcity in this main source of protein for
human consumption.
8.04      Employment Benefits.  Labor requirements in agriculture are
estimated to rise from about 1.2 M to about 2.0 M mandays, or by about 63%.
This would be due both to increases in cropped area and more intensive care
of crops and higher labor needs for harvesting. It is estimated that the
rate of farm labor utilization in crop production would increase from
approximately 30% to 50% of available time. 1/ Most of the employment
benefits would accrue to self-employed family labor. It is expected that
employment in the rural and urban non-farm sector would increase in line with
expected additional demands for marketing, transport and processing
facilities. The project establishment for operation and maintenance itself
would create about 300 permanent jobs, both for skilled and unskilled
workers.
8.05      Unquantified Benefits.  Under the Stage I project sizeable invest-
ments have been made for the the construction of village roads. The present
project would not only provide for O&M of these roads but for further exten-
sion of this network in the new tubewell area as well. While the projection
of agricultural production benefits already implies the existence of roads
(to enhance farmers' incentive tc grow surplus produce by providing access to
markets and agricultural input sources), it is evident that there are con-
siderable additional benefits in the form of improved communication, result-
ing in time and transport cost savings. Judging from the substantial traffic
on the completed Stage I project roads, including flourishing new bus routes,
it is obvious that benefits, which have not been quantified, occur
immediately once roads are open to the public. Another benefit is the
availability of safe drinking water from the tubewells.
8.06      The project would use consultants, to help with design and con-
struction, management and operation and maintenance of the tubewell schemes,
and with promoting modern agricultural practices. While their employment
increases the project cost, it would result not only in benefits to the
project but also in long-term benefits to the country, by building up exper-
tise in management, engineering and agronomy aspects of groundwater develop-
ment.
8.07    The benefits from rehabilitating the Birganj tubewells have not been
quantified. Most of these wells are presently functioning at a very low
level of utilization or not at all. The incremental investment in their
1/ Overall utilization rates are higher due to other on-farm and off-farm
employment.



-54-
rehabilitation is expected to yield agricultural benefits which would at any
rate justify the cost, since most of the total cost is already sunk cost.
8.08      Beneficiaries.  The project would benefit about 4,700 farm-families
directly, and indirectly a number of landless laborers that has not been
estimated, both in the vicinity of the project area and immigrant laborers
from the hills. A high percentage of farm families living at present on or
below the absolute poverty threshold would be reduced considerably, from
90-95% to about 30-35%, excluding landless laborers.
Economic Analysis
8.09      Only agricultural production benefits have been entered in the
economic analysis. Economic crop prices for tradable crops (rice, wheat,
sugarcane) were derived from relevant border prices (mostly based on the
Indian market), and for non-traded crops (maize, pulses, oilseeds,
vegetables) from the prevailing and projected market prices. The economic
prices of fertilizer were derived from IBRD price projections. The shadow
price of agricultural labor was assumed at about 50% of the going (peak) wage
rates for hired labor. Cost items were valued by employing specific conver-
sion factors to financial cost; a standard conversion factor of 0.90 was
applied only to unspecified cost items. Benefit build-up is the result of
the assumed phasing of areas to come under irrigation, a relatively fast
transition from present to future cropping intensities, and a more gradual
build-up of yields and input use, including adoption of high yielding crop
varieties. Full development would be reached after 8-10 years. The cost of
pumping was based on the estimated long-run marginal cost of electricity for
Nepal. Care was taken to allocate project costs properly to the project
components. For the re-evaluation of the Stage I project, economic invest-
ment cost FY78-82 was derived from actual expenditures. Detailed assumptions
on economic analysis are spelled out in Annex 8. Economic prices used are
shown in SDV Annex 8, Table 1; yields, inputs and cropping patterns assumed
are detailed in SDV Annex 8, Tables 5A-H, together with a summary of economic
agricultural returns and input costs for present, "future without project"
and "future with project."
8.10      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic viability of the Stage I
Project, i.e. 64 tubewells, has been re-assessed, yielding an economic rate
of return of about 10%. 1/ This estimate incorporates the effects of delays,
the cost overrun and a revised estimate of agricultural benefits with and
without project. The new tubewell scheme is expected to yield an economic
1/ Excluding the cost of technical assistance; see Annex 1, Table 22. If
sunk cost were excluded, this project component would yield an extremely
high rate of return of about 46%. (SDV Annex 8, para 24 and Tables 6 and
7).



-55-
rate of return of about 12%.2/ The rate of return for the new wells is higher
due to faster implementation, lower energy cost, lower O&M requirements and
somewhat lower agricultural production without project (no present irriga-
tion). While the above rates of return are relatively low, the investments
are considered acceptable as both tubewell components are experimental in
nature and mainly set up to test the viability of future large scale
groundwater development projects in Nepal. The project's essential objective
to build up capacities to deal effectively with future groundwater projects
has caused the overhead costs to be larger than normal. In addition the cost
of drilling and developing the tubewells with project machinery and staff has
proven to be much higher than if undertaken by contractors. If these con-
siderations are taken into account the ERR's for the Stage I tubewells and
the 15 new wells are estimated to increase substantially. Underlying cost
and benefit streams for these two project component are shown in SDV Annex 3,
Tables 15 and 16. The rate of return of the entire proposed project has been
estimated at about 29% (excluding sunk cost and technical assistance).
Sensitivity and Risk
8.10      Stage I Project.  No sensitivity tests have been performed on the
economic viability of the Stage I project as re-evaluated, since the economic
rate of return is very close to the estimated opportunity cost of capital.
The economic risk of the O&M component is related only to future costs and
benefits, it is considered to be virtually nil due to a very high economic
rate of return for the component (see footnote 1/ on page 54).
8.11      New Tubewell Systems.  It is in the nature of a pilot project that
uncertainties with respect to actual investment cost, O&M cost and perfor-
mance are yet to be reduced during implementation. The performance of
similar tubewell schemes in neighboring Uttar Pradesh (India) gives reason
to believe that good results could be achieved in Nepal as well, especially
since construction and O&M appear less difficult than for conventional
tubewell schemes. Sensitivity tests show, however, that under present
assumptions there is not much latitude for cost overruns or benefit short-
falls. The component is less sensitive to increases in the economic cost of
pumping. It is, however, felt that with the introduction of improved tech-
nology, benefits may in fact be higher and realized faster than projected,
not in the least because the operation of the system would resemble more
closely an "on-demand" type rather than the strict rotational distribution
through canal conveyance. This may encourage farmers to make higher invest-
ments in modern crop inputs, resulting in higher yields and possibly in
higher irrigation intensities. Such projections, however, have not been
incorporated into economic analysis. A summary of sensitivity analysis is
given in SDV Annex 3, Table 17.
2/ Excluding cost of technical assistance, see Annex 1, Table 21.



-56-
8.12      Project Risk.  A possible risk would be the underutilization of
the public tubewells. Utilization of the project tubewells as projected
would depend mainly on three factors: adequate power supply to the wells,
the ability of the project staff to operate and maintain the project
facilities successfully, and active farmers participation. To minimize the
risk of underutilization of the project wells, the project is supporting
measures to strengthen the operation and maintenance performance to supply
irrigation water in a reliable, timely and equitable manner. HMGN's decision
to establish the 33 kV line from the Gandak West power station to the project
area as a dedicated feeder line would assure a reliable electricity supply.
Institutional weaknesses most prevalent in Nepal, such us lack of coordina-
tion between Government Departments have been identified and dealt with in
the proposed project organization. In order to reduce the management risk,
provision is made for substantial consultant assistance. Increased motiva-
tion for farmers to participate in the project would be provided by a
strengthened extension service, and through assistance in forming and running
water users groups. Consequently, the risk associated with this project is
acceptable.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations agreements have been reached with HMGN that:
(a) it would (i) channel budget requests and releases for the
Agricultural Division in the project office through the
Project Manager and (ii) make the Agricultural Division
for administrative and financial matters accountable to
the project manager (para 5.03);
(b) for purposes of implementing the project, it would expand
and strengthen the role of the Groundwater Resources
Development Board and include the Project Manager as an
observer on all matters relating to the project (para 5.02);
(c) (i) adequate funding for the execution of the Birganj tubewell
repair and improvement component would be made available directly
to Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board; (para 3.55);
(ii) the project consultants engaged for the implementation
of the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project (IDA
Credit 856) would also assist Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board with the implementation of the proposed
improvements of the Birganj tubewells (para 3.55);



-57-
(d) all canals, structures, pumping equipment, power lines,
roads, O&M equipment and other project facilities be
operated and maintained in accordance with sound
engineering standards (para 3.21);
(e) it would furnish to IDA annually the detailed plans for
implementing the project in its next fiscal year as
well as estimates of the financial requirements for
implementing the project, on the basis of which it makes
budgetary allocations (para 3.56 and para 4.03).
(f) a firm of consultants would be employed starting from
March 1, 1983 to assist in the implementation of the
project. The employment would be under terms and conditions
which are acceptable to IDA (para 3.47);
(g) where required consultants would also be employed to assist
in the implementation of ongoing IDA assisted irrigation
projects in Nepal. The employment would be under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.49);
(h) a firm of consultants would be employed from January 31, 1985
to assist the Groundwater Resources Development Board in
undertaking a study of alternative groundwater development
strategies in the Terai. The employment would be under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.48);
(i) it would cause the project consultants to prepare O&M manuals
for the project's tubewell systems to be furnished to IDA for
its review in draft by November 1, 1983 and in final
form by November 1, 1984 (para 3.21);
(j) submit to IDA a project completion report not later than
six months after the project's Closing Date (para 5.08);
(k) the Agricultural Inputs Corporation would make agricultural
inputs available in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of
the project (para 6.07);
(1) the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal would make funds
available annually to meet production credit needs of the project
farmaers (para 6.08);
(m)  it would cause NEC (i) to operate the 33 kV transmission
from the Gandak West Hydropower Station to the 33/11 kV
substation in the project area as a dedicated feeder for
purposes of providing the required power to the pumps
which is expected not to exceed 5 MW at the substation at



-58-
full development (para 3.14); and (ii) to energize the
tubewell pumping units within two months after the completion
of any water distribution system in the project (para 3.35);
(n)  the Project Manager would
(i) establish and maintain accounts for the project;
(ii) have its accounts and financial statements audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(iii) send the certified copies of the audited accounts
and auditor's report to IDA within six months after the
close of each fiscal year (para 4.08);
(o)  if farmers fail to carry out the construction of field
channels it would cause the project to undertake its
construction (para. 5.05);
(p)  it would cause the project
(i) not to supply water to farmers in completed tubewell
schemes until water users groups have been set up and are
ready to assume the responsibility of water distribution
below the 4-5 ha outlet (para 5.06);
(ii) not to start the drilling of any of the 15 new tubewells
until two-thirds of the beneficiaries have formally agreed to
form a water users group and to pay water charges
(para 5.06);
(q)  it would set up and properly staff a special unit directly
under the project manager to be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation activities in the project (para 5.08);
(q)  it would
(i) establish a committee by March 1, 1983 to work out
concrete proposals for water charges by December 31, 1983
for consideration by HMGN and IDA (para 7.14); and
(ii) introduce a new system of water charges for public
tubewells by March 31, 1984, which would be satisfactory to
IDA (para 7.14).
9.02      With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$16.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be His
M:ajesty's Government of Nepal.



Annex 1
Table 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Management and Administration
1. Salaries and Allowances
Unit Cost           Total Cost      1/
Staff                 No.    Month    Year 1/   Per Year   5 Years
-_____-------------NRs---------------------
*Project manager          1     1,475      22,125    22,125    110,625
*Senior administrator    1      1,030      15,450    15,450      77,250
*Senior accountant        1     1,030      15,450    15,450      77,250
*Accountant               2       750      11,250    22,500    112,500
*Purchasing officer       1       750      11,250    11,250      56,250
*Senior storekeeper       1       750      11,250    11,250      56,250
Storekeeper              1       470       7,896     7,896      39,480
Clerk                    8       470       7,896    63,168    315,840
Typist                   2       470       7,896    15,792      78,960
Driver                   3       385       6,468    19,404      97,020
Miscellaneous worker   10        380       6,384    63,840    319,200
Total   1,340,625
2.  Vehicles and Equipment                      Unit Cost            Total
c.i.f. Calcutta
-------- -U.S.$      
Passenger car 2/          1                10,000               10,000
Jeep                      3                12,500               37,500
Motorcycle                1                 3,000                3,000
Bicycle                   2                   150                  300
Miscellaneous                                                    2,200
Total c.i.f. Calcutta                                           53,000
Transportation Calcutta-Bhairawa 5%                              2,650
Total               55,650
3. Operating Expenses
Cost (US$)
Items                                      c.i.f. Bhairawa
Spare parts for vehicles                       8,000
Fuel, lubricating oil                          9,000
Office expenses                               10,000
Printing                                       7,000
Mail                                           5,000
Miscellaneous                                  4,000
Total                 43,000
1/ Includes 25% project allowance for officials (*)
40% project allowance for non-officials
2/ Kathmandu Office



- 60-
Annex 1
Table 2
NEPAL                         Page 1
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
1. Salaries and Allowances
Unit Cost          Total Cost        1/
Staff                 No.    Month    Year 1/  Per Year    5 Years
--------------------NRs -------------------
*Mechanical engineer             1      1,095    16,425    16,425        82,125
*C:ivil engineer                 1        850    12,750    12,750        63,750
C:Lerk                          3        470      7,896    23,688      118,440
Driver                          8        385      6,468    51,744       258,720
Workshop foreman                1        535      8,988      8,988       44,940
Mechanic                        3        390      6,552    19,656        98,280
Helper                          3        330      5,544    16,632        83,160
Vehicle electrician             1        390      6,552      6,552       32,760
Helper                          1        330      5,544      5,544       27,720
Welder                          2        535      8,988    17,976        89,880
Helper                          2        330      5,544    11,088        55,440
Pump operator                  64        285      4,788   306,432   l,532,160
Pump inspector                  4        535      8,988    35,952       179,760
Pu-mp mechanic                  2        535      8,988    17,976        89,880
Helper                          2        330      5,544    11,088        55,440
Pump electrician                2        535      8,988    17,976        89,880
Helper                          2        330      5,544    11,088        55,440
Generator operator              2        390      6,552    13,104        65,520
Crane operator                  1        535      8,988      8,988      44,940
Overseer                        6        535      8,988    53,928      269,640
Builder                         4        390      6,552    26,208       131,040
Helper                          4        330      5,544    22,176       110,880
Motorgrader operator            1        535      8,988      8,988       44,940
Roadroller operator             2        535      8,988    17,976        89,880
Tractor operator                4        390      6,552    26,208       131,040
Liathe and mechanical
workshop operator             2        535      8,988    17,976        89,880
*Sulrveyor                       1        850    12,750    12,750         63,750
Helper                          3        330      5,544    16,632        83,160
Draughtsman                     1        535      8,988      8,988       44,940
Worker                          8        330      5,544    44,352       222,660
Assistant geologist             1        535      8,988      8,988       44,940
Well observer                   2        535      8,988    17,976        89,880
Assistant well observer         2        390      6,552    13,104        65,520
Helper                          2        330      5,544    11,088        55,440
Total O&M Staff             4,605,825
T/ includes 25% project allowance for officials (*)
40% project allowance for non-officials



- 61-
Annex 1
Table 2
Page 2
2. Equipment and Vehicles
Item                       No.         Unit Cost    Total Cost
c.i.f. Calcutta
-    -U    --S-$ 
Bulldozer/Loader, 110 HP   1              100,000       100,000
Motorgrader, 120 HP          1             65,000        65,000
Road Roller, 48 HP           2             20,000        40,000
Pick-up                      6             12,000        72,000
Jeep                         2             12,500        25,000
Motorbike                   10              3,000        30,000
Tractor 50-60 HP             4              7,500        30,000
Trailer                      3              4,000        12,000
Truck (4 ton)                1             20,000        20,000
Service trailer              1             25,000        25,000
Water tank trailer           2              5,000        10,000
Cranes (on pick-ups)         2              5,000        10,000
Mobile Crane                 1             25,000        25,000
Wireless Sets and
Accessories                9              1,700        15,300
Mobile welding
generators                2              4,000         8,000
Miscellaneous tools                                      14,000
Office furniture                                          6,000
Office equipment                                          5,000
Bicycle                                                   1,000
Miscellaneous                                            14,700
Total c.i.f. Calcutta                                   528,000
Transportation Calcutta-Bhairawa (5%)                    26,400
Total         554,400
3. Construction Materials
No. of
Unit       Units    Unit Cost    Total Cost
c.i.f. Bhairawa
__--- U.S. $      
Gravel and Sand         m 2       32,500        10           325,000
Bricks                 10  no.       445        36           160,000
Cement                 bag        17,500         8           140,000
Total                      625,000



-62 -
Annex 1
Table 2
Page 3
4. Operating Expenses
Estimated Cost
Items                                     c.i.f. Bhairawa
US$
Spare parts for pumps                           30,000
Electric parts for pumps                        35,000
Generator parts                                  7,000
Electric motor repairs                          30,000
Spare parts for equipment and vehicles         133,000
Outside workshop expenses                       15,000
Fuel lubricants, grease                         94,000
Office expenses                                 10,000
Printing                                         5,000
Mail                                             5,000
Periodicals and books                            2,500
Consumable materials for workshops              10,000
Generator fuel, lubricants                      40,000
Miscellaneous                                   40,000
Total              456,500
5. Buildings
Cost Estimate
No. of   Unit      Total
Items                      Unit           Units   Cost       Cost
-- NRs -------
Offices 1/                                  140    1,500    210,000
Workshop and Stores          m2             350    1,000    350,000
Housing j'u 7i
staff _                  m2              560    1,500    840,000
1,400,000
m2
1/  10 m2 per person
2/ 60 m per family



Annex 1
- 63-                     Table 3
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Projected Financial Cost of Electricity for Pumping a/
(Nrs M)
Year       Existing Tubewells b/       New Tubewells c/   Total
1982/83             0.73                                    0.73
1983/84             1.92                        -           1.92
1984/85             2.27                      0.08          2.35
1985/86             2.41                      0.25          2.66
1986/87             2.56                      0.28         2.84
1987/88             2.68                      0.30          2.98
1988/89             2.80                      0.33          3.18
1989/90             2.91                      0.35          3.26
1990/91             3.03                      0.36          3.39
1991/92             3.03 d/                   0.38          3.41
1992/93             3.03                      0.40          3.43
1993/94             2.79                      0.42          3.21
1994/95 etc.        2.79                      0.44         3.23
a/ At present applicable tariffs: NRs 0.25/kWh
Rs 300/kW per year for installed
capacity
b/ 64 wells, each 69 kW instaled, 44 kW demand in final stage
c/ 15 wells, each 29.5 kW installed, 29.5 kW demand in final stage
d/ Gradual replacement with new pumpsets of lower installed capacity
(44 kW each instead of 69 kW)



-64-
Annex 1
Table a-
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Summary of Costs for Agricultural Extension and Training
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5         Total
1.  Capital Costs                    ---------------------------Rs '000----------------------------
A. Civil Works
Housing                      895.4        261.0    1,300.5    1,039.5           -        3,496.4
Input Storage                   -          50.0       250.0       200.0         -          500.0
Sub-total                  895.4        311.0    1,550.5    1,239.5           -        3,996.4
B.  Vehicles                      30.0        740.0          -           -          -          770.0
C. Office Equipment
and Furniture                   -         200.0          -           -          -          200.0
D.  Extension Equipment             -         208.0          -           -          -          208.0
Total Capital Costs        925.4      1,459.0    1,550.5    1,239.5           -        5,174.4
2. Operating Costs
A. Staff Cost
(i)  Salary                  931.8        931.8       931.8       931.8      931.8       4,659.0
(ii)  Allowance               466.6        466.6       466.6       466.6      466.6       2,333.0
B.  Operating Expenses
and Extension Materials       46.1         86.9        86.9        86.9       86.9         393.7
C.  Travel Cost                   50.0         50.0        50.0        50.0       50.0         250.0
D.  Vehicle Operating Costs       90.0        225.0       250.0       25Q.0      250.0       1,065.0
E.  Training                      79.6         79.6        79.6        79.6       79.6         398.0
F.  Extension Activities         158.0         158.0       158.0       158.0     158.0          790.0
Total Operating Costs  1,822.1        1,997.9    2,022.9    2,022.9   2,022.9          9,888.7
Grand Total                2,747.5      3,456.9    3,573.4    3,262.4   2,022.9         15,063.1
(US$1,141,000)



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUJMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Training Center at Bhairawa Research
Area  Unit Cost  Year 1 Year 2  Year 3 Year 4  Year 5  Total
Capital Cost                (m2)   NRs/m2    -------NRs '000---------------
A. Civil Works
Hosteli/ (two storeys)   600       4,000     300      800    1,300      -       -    2,400
Training Complex2/        400      2,800     200      500      420      -       -    1,120
Housing3/                 325      2,400      90      350      340      -        -      780
B. Equipment and Furniture 4/                     90     225       135     -        -      450
Total                                        680   1,875    2,195                     4,750
Provided for in IDA
Credit-1100                                240      875      835                    1,950
Balance                                      440   1,000    1,360                     2,800
1/  Hostel for sixty trainees.
2/  Includes cost of classroom, office and ;ibrary facilities.              2                           "
3/  Housing for one training officer (100 m ) and 5 support staff (225 m )x
4/  Includes costs of furniture for classrooms, hostel and offices; office and training
equipment and visual aids; one generator.



-66-
Annex 1
Table 6
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Incremental Staff for Planning, Design, Construction and O&M
New Tubewelis
Unit Cost          Total Cost       1/  Years in
1.  Staff               N.      Month      Year 1/ Per Year   Project    Project
-_____--------NRs--------------
Engineer*            2        850    12,750    25,500    102,000           4
Overseer             6        535      8,988    53,928    215,712          4
Surveyor*            2        850    12,750    25,500    102,000           4
Draftsman             1       535      8,988      8,988      35,952        4
Tracer               2        390      6,552    13,104       52,416        4
Helper                3       330      5,544    16,632       66,528        4
Worker              20        330      5,544   110,880    443,520          4
Pump operator       15        285      4,788    71,820    143,640          2
Pump inspector        1       535      8,988      8,988      17,976        2
Total                               1,179,744
2.  Vehicles            No.         Unit Cost          Total Cost
c.i.f. Calcutta
 ---------- uS   $  
Jeep                 2               12,500           25,000
Motorcycle           2                2,500            5,000
Total c.i.f. Calcutta                                 30,000
Transportation Calcutta-Bhairawa 5%                    1,500
Total                           31,500
1/ includes: 25% project allowance for officials (*)
40% project allowance for non-officials



-67-                              Annex 1
Table t
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimates for Pumping Units and Ancillaries including Spares
Item               Description               Unit Cost      Cost of 15 Units
NRs c.i.f.       NRsxl03 c.l.f.
Bhairawa          Bhairawa
1.        40 HP Electric submersible
pump to deliver 300 m3/h
through a dynamic head of 20 m
plus 30 m of 8 in. diameter
risinig main                        80,000             1,200.0
2.        Autotransformer starter relay
including single phase
preventor                           50,000               750.0
3.        Capacitor                             3,000               45.0
4.        Hour operation meter                  1,000                15.0
5.        Electric wiring and lighting          2,500                37.5
Sub-Total                     136,500            2,047.5
6.        Installation                         10,000              150.0
Total                         146,500            2,197.5
7.        15% Spares on Items 1-4                -                 301.5
GRAND TOTAL                                      2,499.0



-68-
ANNEX 1
Table 8
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Well Construction, Development and Testing
(200 m deep well to yield 300 m /h in Stage II area)
Cost Estimate
A. Well Construction
Unit               Total
Item          Description                     Unit    Price    No.        Cost
(-   NRs-
1.  Access and site preparation              item       -        -       15,000
2.  Fuel and lubrication for move            item       -        -        4,000
3.  Fuel and lubricants for drilling         item       -        -       27,000
4.  Drilling mud                             tons        900    2.5        2,250
5.  Barytes                                  tons    1,400    1.0          1,400
6.  Polyphosphate                            kg           24    250       6,000
7.  Bits                                     item       -        -       36,000
8.  Casing (16 in. mild steel)               m        1,450       40     58,000
9.  Casing (10 in mild steel)                m           850      80     68,000
10.  Screen (10 in. mild steel)               m        1,050       80      84,000
11.  Cement                                   bags        100    100      10,000
12.  Casing hanger, flanges and
delivery pipe                          item       -        -        2,600
13.  Valve on outlet                           unit    1,700        1       1,700
14.  Spares and maintenance for rig            item       -        -       20,000
15.  Other consumables for rig                 item       -        -        5,800
16.  Drill crew salaries                         -        -        -       17,200
TOTAL                                                             358,950
B.  Development with a Compressor
Item          Description                                    Cost
(NRs)
1.  Fuel and lubricants for move                            1,500
2.  Fuel and lubricants for operation                      14,000
3.  Other consumables                                       1,200
4.  Repairs and maintenance of equipment                    7,000
5.  Site preparation                                        5,000
6.  Crew salaries                                           3,000
TOTAL                                               31,700
C. Test Pumping
1.  Fuel and lubricants for move                            2,100
2.  Fuel and lubricants for test                           18,200
3.  Repairs and maintenance of equipment                    7,000
4.  Other consumables                                       1,500
5.  Crew salaries                                           5,400
TOTAL                                               34,200
Summary of Costs for 15 Wells
Item          Description                             Cost/Well   Cost for 15 Wells
(NRs)          (NRsxlO3)
1.  Well construction                                 358,950            5,384
2.  Development with compressor                        31,700               476
3.  Test pumping                                        34,200              513
TOTAL                                           424,850            6,373
Note:  Estimates do not include:  (a) depreciation and interest on equipment,
(b) supervision, (c) contingencies; but salaries are adjusted for wet
season down time.



-69-
ANNEX 1
Table 9
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Vehicles and Plant for Drilling and Development and Testing
To Be             Cost
No.            Item                   Required      Available       Purchased      c.i.f. Calcutta
Drillin                              ------------No. of Units-------------    -----US$--------
1.  Rig complete                          1             2              -                 -
2.  Shale shaker                          1             2              -                 -
3.  Welding generation                    1             2              -                 -
4.  Heavy tractor (210 HP)                1             2              -                 -
5.  Light tractor (40-50 HP)              1             1              -                 -
6.  Truck (7 tons)                        1             -              1              27,000
7.  Water tank trailer                    1             2              -                 -
8.  Tool sets (Mechanical)                1             -              1               1,000
9.  Logging equipment                     1             1              -                 -
10.  Fuel tanker, truck 3,000 1            1             -              1              22,500
11.  Tents and camping equipment        3 sets           -              3              19,500
Development and Testing
1.  Compressor                            1             1              -                 -
2.  Test pumping unit                     2             3              -                 -
3.  Medium tractor (60 HP)                1             1              -                 -
4.  Light tractor (40-50 HP)              1             1              -                 -
5.  Trailer                               2             2              -                 -
6.  Tents and camping equipment       3 sets            -              3               9,600
Supervision
1.  Pick-Up                               1             -              1              12,000
Total c.i.f. Calcutta                                                                  91,600
Transport from Calcutta-Bhairawa at 5%                                                  4,580
TOTAL                                                                                96,180
Note: This table assumes that one rig and ancillary equipment are used for the well
construction, development and testing operations in the Stage II area of the
Bhairawa-Lumbini project-



-70-
Annex 1
Table 10
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Workshop Plant and Vehicles etc. for New Works
excluding Well Drilling and Testing
Cost Estimate
Item    Description                                US$
(Cost c.i.f. Calcutta)
A. Plant for Workshop
1.  Lathe                                        12,000
2.  Welding generator                             4,000
3.  Welding transformer                           2,500
4.  Drill                                         2,500
5.  Compressor                                    2,500
6.  Tools                                         3,000
7.  Grindstone                                   1,000
Total c.i.f. Calcutta                     27,500
Transport Calcutta-Bhairawa 5%             1,375
TOTAL                                     28,875
B. Vehicles, etc. for supervision of New Works, Excluding Drilling and Testing
Number
Number          Number         to be
Item       Description         Required       Available       Bought       ( st
(cost c.i.f.
Calcutta)
1.  Pick-up for supervision        1                             1            12,000
2.  Jeeps                          2                             2            25,000
3.  Survey equipment               x                             x            12,000
Total c.i.f. Calcutta                                                  49,000
Transport Calcutta-Bhairawa 5%                                           2,450
TOTAL                                                                  51,450
GRAND TOTAL (A+B)                                                       80,325



-71-
Annex 1
Table1n
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimate - Distribution Network for 120 ha Command Area
Unit       Total
Unit   Quantity   Cost        Cost
------NRs-------
1. Land
Acquisition tubewell compound         ha      0.05    60,000       3,000
Temporary occupation and
crop compensation                           L.S.                 1,000
Sub-Total            4,000
2.  Works and Materiais
Pumphouse                            no         1     75,000      75,000
Control chamber and fittings         no         1     54,000 1/  54,000
Pressure release and stand pipe      no         4       1,200 1/   4,800
Procurement PVC pipe
200 mm                           m         560        92 1/  52,500
160 mm                           m       5,600        58 1/ 324,800
Installation PVC pipe                m       6,160         10 1/  61,600
?VC fittings                                  L.S.                17,000
Alfalfa valve outlet
procurement of valve               no         32        550 2/  17,600
installation and chamber           no         32     2,100 T/  69,200
Field channels                       km         10     2,300      23,000
Sub-Total          699,500
Total              703,500
I/ Based on early 1982 prices valid for Lucknow UP India, converted to NRs
and increased by 15%
2/ Based on early 1982 price valid for Lucknow UP India, converted to NRs
and increased by 100%



-7 2-
Annex 1
Table 12
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimate for Roads
Unit         Total
Unit  Quantity    Cost          Cost
----  --------    -------NRs--
Village and well access roads
-  type "A"                 km      20.0    300,000      6,000,000
-  type "B"                 km       5.0    200,000      1,000,000
Land acquisition 1/            L. S.                            200,000
Total                        7,200,000
1/ Proposed roads would mostly be aligned on existing rights of way that
connect with the Bhairawa-Lumbini Road.



-73-
Annex 1
Table 13
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimate for Power Supply System
Unit      Total
Item    Description               Unit    Quantity       Cost        Cost
-NRs-
1. 33 kV line
a. Conductor                   km          35       15,000       525,000
b. Poles                       no         420        2,800    1,176,000
c. Insultors                 per km        35       12,500       437,500
d. Stay wire sets            per km        35       15,000       525,000
e. Hardware                  per km        35        5,000       175,000
f. Labor                     per km        35        7,000       245,000
g. Cement                    per km        35        2,000        70,000
2.  Transformers (33/0.4 kV)    unit            15      75,000    1,125,000
3. Connection and metering
unit                          unit         15       35,000       525,000
Total              4,803,500
Note: Assumes 15 km of extension of the 33 kV line from the Stage I
33/11 kV substation to the Stage II development area and 20 km
of 33 kV line within the Stage II development area.



-74-
Annex 1
Table 14
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimate for Drainage
Unit     Total
Unit  Quantity  Earthwork        Cost      Cost
(m /km)       -----NRs------
For extension area (2,400 ha gross)
Reshaping of existing-/
natural drains            km      28.2       4,400       22,000     620,400
Secondary drainsl/             km      8.8       1,700        8,500       74,800
Inlets to natural drains       no      2                      5,000       10,000
Crossing structures            no      3                     30,000       90,000
2/
Service unit drains-           km     75           880        4,400      330,000
Inlet structures-/             no    100                      2,000      200,000
Sub- Total                1,325,200
Land Acquisition               ha      4.0                   30,000      120,000
Total                1,445,2Q0
1/ length based on data in stage II feasibility study, HMGN/Tahal
Consulting Engineers, October 1980.
2/ Based on about 40 mr/ha
3! Based on 1 inlet 20 ha



-75-
Annex 1
Table 15
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimate for Improvement of "Birganj" Tubewells
Unit     Total
Unit  Quantity   Cost       Cost
----------'000 NRs-------------
A. Civil Works
1. Lining of canals                    km       6        300      1,800
2. Division boxes                       no.    70          2        140
3. Improvement of earthen canals        km     45          7        315
4. Quarters for JT/JTA                  no.     5         80        400
5. Quarters for pump operators          no.    28         45      1,200
6. Restoration of Jangannathpur well
(i) development and testing                                       20
(ii) lined canal                     km       1        300        300
(iii) earthen canals and drains                                    150
(iv) pump and motor                  no.      1        125        125
(v) electrical connections                                       100
Sub-Total                                                 4,550
B. Equipment and Vehicles
1. Replacement of pump sets             no.      4       125        500
2. Drop-out switches                    no.     28        15        420
3. Steel pipes for redrilled wells   no.          9       40        360
4. Spare parts 1/                               L.S.              1,220
5. Pick-up                              no.       1      150        150
6. Motorcycle                           no.      9        20        180
7. Bicycle                              no.      15        1         15
Sub-Total                                                 2,845
C. Salaries and Operating Cost
1. Salaries and allowances                                        3,715
2. Operating cost 2/                                                560
4,275
D. Electricity Cost 3/                              L.S.             2,860
GRAND TOTAL                                              14,530
1/ Including three 50 HP submersible pumps and transformers.
2/ Includes fuel consumption for O&M and agricultural extension program.
3/ Based on current tariffs and 2,000 hours of pumping per well in
project year 5.



-76-
Annex 1
Table 16
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Improvement "Birganj" Tubewells
Salaries and Allowances
Unit Cost             Total Cost
Per Year         Per Year    5 Years
No.     -----------NRs '000 -----------------
O&M Staff
Engineer                                1          18            18            90
Overseer                                1          12            12            60
Senior electrician                      1          12            12            60
Electrician                             2          10            20           100
Mechanic                                2          10            20           100
Office assistant                        2           9            18            90
Storekeeper                             1          10            10            50
Pump operator                          30           6           180           800
Watchman                               30           6           180           900
Helper                                  5           6            30           150
Sub-Total                                 500         2,500
1/
Agticultural Staff
JT                                      1          13            13            65
JTA                                    10          10           100           500
PLAA                                   30           4           120           60Q
Clerk                                   1          10            10            50
Sub-Total                                 243          1,215
TOTAL                                     743          3,715
1/ Based on: 1 JT for 3,000 ha
1 JTA for 300 ha Cor three tubewells)
1 PLAA for 100 ha (or one tubewell)



-77-
Annex 1
Table 17
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Cost Estimate for Consulting Services
Cost 1/
A. Technical Assistance                                     Man-Month   US$
1. Irrigation and drainage engineer,
Team Leader                                             60    600,000
2.  Workshop and equipment management specialist            30    300,000
3.  Agronomy/water management specialist                    24    240,000
4.  Design/Construction engineer                            12    120,000
5.  Soil specialist                                          4     40,000
6.  Updating of feasibility study                           10    100,000
7.  Unallocated 3/                                          50    500,000
Sub-Total                                     190  1,900,000
B. Sub-Contracts
1.  Photogrammetry and mapping for 13,000 ha                      400,000 2/
2.  Semi-detailed soil survey for 13,000 ha                       100,000
3.  Monitoring and evaluation (APROSC)                             50,000
Total                                              2,450,000
C. Study of Groundwater Development Strategies
1.  Study coordinator                                       10    100,000
2.  Groundwater development specialist                       4     40,000
3.  Agronomist                                               4     40,000
4.  Socio-Economist                                          3     30,000
5.  Power Engineer                                           3     30,000
6.  Unallocated                                              6     60,000
Total                                                300,000
1/ Based on US$10,000 per manmonth.
2/ Based on about US$28 per ha.
3/ Two years after the start of the Stage II project HMGN and IDA will
decide on the allocation of 50 manmonths.



-78-                                                                Annex 1
Table 18
NEPAL
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
Stage II
Estimated Schedule of Annual Expenditores I/
us$ x '000
NRs x '000
Total             FY '83           FY '84          FY '85            FY '86           FY '87          FY '88
US$      NRt      US$ RNRs    US0    NRs           US$       NRs    0S$       NRs    US$    NRs    US$   NRs
1. Management and Administrati-n
1.1 Salaries and allnwances                            105    1,387       16      208      21      277      21      277      21      277      21      278    5       70
1.2 Vehicles and equipment                              58       766      10      132      48      634      -        -       -        -       -       -       -    -
1.3 Operating Cost                                      45       594       7       93       8      106       8      105        8     105        9      119    5      66
Sub-total (1)                                      208    2,747       33      433      77   1,017       29      382      29      382      30      397   10    136
2. Operation and Maintenance
2.1 Salaries and alinwances                            361    4,767       54      714      72      953      72      953       72     953       72      954   19    240
2.2 Vehicles and equipment                             574    7,577      124   1,637      259   3,419      191   2,521
2.3 Constr-ctino  materials                            795   10,491      127   1,680      175   2,302      175   2,302      145   1,916       141   1,868   32    423
2.4 Operating cost                                     473    6,244        71     937      94   1,241       94   1,241        94   1,241       94   1,241   26    343
2.5 Electricity cost 2/                                798   10,532       30      400      98   1,290    162   2,135        190   2,505      208   2,750  110  1,452
2.6 Buildings                                          110    1,449       32      414      78   1,035       -        -       -        -       -         -    -       -
Sub-total (2)                                   3,111   41,060    438   5,782         776  10,240    694   9,152        501   6,615    515   6,813   187  2,458
3. Agricultural Eiteosion
3.1 Salaries and allowances                            548    7,234       73      964    110   1,448       110   1,448       110   1,448      109   1,448   36    478
3.2 Operating cost                                     227    2,998       22      292      47      620      49      646       49     646       49      646   11    148
3.3 Agricultural inputs                                100    1,320    100   1,320    -            -        -         -      -         -       -        -
3.1 Vehicles and equipment                              92    1,220         2      31      90   1,189       -        -       -        -       -         -    -       -
3.5 Buildings                                          533    7,035    105   1 381        103   1 357    228   3,013         97   1 284-                             -
Sub-total (3)                                   1,500    19,807    302   3,988    350   4,614    387   5,107            256   3,378      158   2,094   47    626
4. Tuhewell Develop=ent Area
4.1 Salaries and allowances                             93    1,221         7      87      20      263       20     263       20      263      19      263    7      82
4.2 Tobewell systems
(a) drilling and installation 3/                  422    5,572        -        -      253   3,343      169   2,229
(b) development and testIng                         78    1,024       -        -       26      342      52      682
(c) psmping equipment                              196    2,586       -        -      118   1,552       78   1,034
(d) vehicles and equipment                        215    2,838        95   1,254       88   1,162       32      422
(e) pumphouses                                      88    1,164       -        -       29      388      59      776
(f) distribution network 4/                        734    9,695       -        -      380   5,014      274   3,623       80   1,058
4.3i Roads                                             549    7,245    150   1,980        321   4,230        78   1,035
4.4 Power supply system                                377    4,972      157   2,070      220   2,902       -         -
4.5 Drainage                                           104    1,371       -        -       -        -       55      724      49      647
4.6 Land Acqisition                                     40       527        9     113      24      317        7       97    -         -       -         -    -       -
Sub-total (4)                                   2,896   38,215    418   5,504  1,479  19,513           824  10,885      149   1,968       19      263    7       82
5. Cost-Overrun Stage I 5/
3.1 Drilling and installation                          202    2,673    202   2,673
5.2 Punping equipment                                  206    2,721    206   2,721
5.1 Buildins                                           250    3,299      250   3,299
5.4 Distribution and drainage network                  687    9,070      687   9,070
5.5 Roads                                              143    1,885    143   1,885
5.6 Power supply system                                402    5,302      402   5,302
5.3 Vehicles and eqoipment                              36       480      36      480
5.4 Advisory services                                  270    3,556    270   3,556
Sub-total (5)                                   2,196   28,986  2,196  28,986
6. Technical Assistance and Training
6.1 Advisory services                                1,863   24,592      300   3,960    518   6,838    393   5,188    290   3,828            290   3,828   72    950
6.2 Aerial photography and napping                     414    5,465       -        -       -        -       -         -     414   5,465        -        -    -       -
6.3 Surveys                                            155    2,046       15      198      10      132       10      132    100   1,320        10      132   10    132
6.4 Updating feasibility study                         104     1,372      -        -       -        -       -         -       52     686       52      686   -       -
6.5 Groundwater study                                  300    3,960       -        -       -        -      100   1,320    200   2,640         -         -    -       -
6.E Training                                            48       634        6      80      21      277      21      277      -         -       -        -    -       -
6.7 Advisory services to other projects                800   10,560      500   6,600      300   3,960
Sub-total (6)                                   3,684   48,629       821  10,838      849  11,207      524   6,917  1,056  13,939    352   4,646   82  1,082
Base Cost (June 1982)                               13,595  179,444  4,208  55,531  3,531  46,591  2,458  32,443  1,991  26,282  1.074  14,213  333  4,384
7. Contingencies
7.1 Physical                                         1,502   19,827      438   5,782      443   5,847      286   3,775      207   2,733      100   1,320   28    370
7.2 Price                                            2,833   37,395    381   5,029        626   8,263    637   8,408        664   8,765    399   5,267  126  1,663
Total (1) to (7)                               17,930  236,666  5,027  66,342  4,600  60,701  3,381  44,626  2,862  37,780  1,573  20,800  487  6,417
8. Rehabilitation - Birganj Wells
8.1 Salaries and allowances                            281    3,715       37      490       56      743      56      743      56      743      56      743   20    253
8.2 Operating cost                                      42       560        3       40       7      100      10      130      10      130      10      130    2      30
8.3 Electricity Cost 2/                                216    2,860        15     200      34      450       40      535      47      620      53      705   27    350
8.4 Vehicles and equipment                             216    2,845      114   1,500      102   1,345                 -                -                -    -       -
8.5 Civil works                                        345   4A550    114   1,500    190   2,500             41      550
Base Cost (June 1982)                            1,100   14,530      283   3,730      389   5,138    147   1,958        113   1,493      119   1,578   49    633
8.6 Physical contingencies                             122    1,607       35      454       48      636      16      213      10      131      10      131    3       42
8.7 Price costingencies                                258    3410         51     677      105   1 379       32      424      26      342      32      423   12    165
Sub-total (8)                                   1,480   19,547    369   4,861         542   7,153      195   2,595      149   1,966      161   2,132   64    840
TOTAL PROJECT COST 6/                          19,410  256,213  5,396  71,203  5,142  67,854  3,576  47,221  3,011  39,746   1,734  22,932  551  7,257
1/  based on June 1982 prices; cost figures fron supporting tables plus 3.5%
2/  based on current tariffs:  NRs 0.25/kWh and NRs 300 per year per kW installed.
3/  including construction materials
4/  including PVC pipes
_/ only listed are the cost of the Stage I project items, which were eligible for financing from Credit 654 (materials, equipment, vehicles, spare parts,
civil works and advisory services).
6/  identifiable taxes and duties are about NRa 2.5 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) and the total project cost, net of tames and duties, is
NRs 254.2 million (US$19.2 million equivalent).



Annex 1
-79-                             Tab:sel9
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
A. Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount of Credit         % of Expenditures
Allocated               to be Financed
(US $ Million)
Birganj  Bhairawa  Total
(1) Civil Works
(a) by contract             0.3        3.8      4.1      100% (foreign exp.)
90% (local exp.)
(b) by force account        0.1        0.2      0.3       40%
(2) Equipment, materials,
agricultural inputs,
vehicles and spare parts   0.3         4.2       4.5
(a) directly imported                                    100% (foreign exp.)
(b) locally maufactured                                  100% of ex-factory
cost
(c) locally procured                                      75%
(3) Salaries, Local Training
and Operating Cost
exclusive of Electricity
Cost                        0.2        1.3       1.5     50%
(4) Technical Assistance and
Overseas Training            -         4.9       4.9     100%
(5)  Unallocated                  0.1       0.6       0.7
TOTAL                       1.0       15.0      16.0
B.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year - Semester                            Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Semester        Cumulative
1983      1st                                     -
2nd                                   1.0               1.0
1984      1st                                    1.5               2.5
2nd                                   1.7               4.2
1985      1st                                    1.8               6.0
2nd                                   2.1               8.1
1986      1st                                   2.2               10.3
2nd                                   2.0              12.3
1987      1st                                    1.6              13.9
2nd                                   1.4              15.3
1988      1st                                    0.7              16.0
Estimated effectiveness date:  February 1, 1983
Estimated closing date           October 31, 1988



-8E-
- so-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B-
Table 2Z
NEPAL
BHA! AWA-LEMBINI GROS NDWATER PROJECT
STAGE II
Reooseesbo PrIotyt Cost so Fixed sd V-ariEble Coaponents
STAEE 1 AREA (EXISTiNG W5ELLS)                                                  NEW TUBE-WELL SCOEYE
Present            Ansuily          Annuity         Ma-gi-l Cost            Presert           A-nutp            Annuity         M-rginal Cost
,alus      c i  ut 10E               per              bo oe   r R oun   hi  Gue ai            at SHa                              per Hour   b/
fNRs Mj            (NRs )         _(TNR)                 (NRs)              (NRs v)           (NRs M)            (NRn)             (NRs)
fio.   econ. fii.   econ.           firS.    oeon.    fiO.   econ.         fin .   toss.     fin.   eon.       fin.   eo-s.      fin.     ecoa.
(a) DiEtrEib ulo   usc D-oinogE  System               34.5     -  )                                                              10.3
(5) RutilEoios                                         8.7 
(c) Vehicios. Iqufpos, SatorSls'                -     10.3     -  )    10.3       -       1315    -          -       -               9     - )    2.12               SET      -
(a) ProjFas Carob) shIsr                              18.0                                                                         .2
(f) ,and Aoqussiioto                                  10.2     -  )                                                               0.7
2.  Repia        
(a) Wi                                                35.6   34.9        -       _         _       _        22.1   21.7          10.5   10.2                                           32.5    31.9
(5) Puopsess -                                        38.3   37.2        -       -         -       -        23.6   23.'           2.5    P. 7.8                                                   7.7
3.  Fixed EAM Coos
(a) G-osgeossto                                        3 d. oiottoioo  S.7    -                                                   0.4
(5) Staff S Caseoui:s                                 29.3               .13                                                       1  -       )2
(.o)   obhioles &Equipont fo- 3M '/                   13.3         )                               2                                 3)8           0.49
(ot) Coot so Po spilg (ftomA  rut  -                  12.1         )
4.  GorSoole 360 Cost
(a1) Cost of P-cping (s.o port)  /                    14.2   50.3                                            8.8   31.0            1.S    6.4       -       -          -      -         5.9    20.0
(b) Dporueisg Expesses   i/                           14.4   13.0                                  -         8.9    8.1           095     0 8    __  _            _                     2.8      2.5
3.  To-to)
(a)  fixed                                       147.8      -      ';.16      _       1995      -                            25.8      -       2.69    -         148                -        -
(b)   -iriable                                   102.2  135.1        -                 -               63.4   83.9           15.7   19.9        -       -          -      -        49.0    62.1
(c)  total                                       250.0           E1.16        -      1995      -        63.4   83.9          41.3      -       2.69              1448    -         49.0    62.1
6.  Voluse of  asres p-r hoor as field                                                                         28413  284m3                                                                279m3   279m3
7. Mefrgi-ul oost per M3 of easer au  field (Rs)                                                               0.223  0.295                                                                0.176   0.223
a/     Porte - salse .  efers to 1982/83 foe both  -o-ooo ,ess.  Inoeosmest -    ost for eiustiog
wel's does nor coneois aocumulated i-eer-  o- outloys sjnce start of implementttio,
but isexprosted ie 1982 pri-es, an is 00 t of sew  -o-ls.
b!     Carlculste  as preseet olue of coat civided by pre-st role of es-ioated toosing
hoses (1.61 I hoous  for e-sting wel_s. 0.32 M hots Por new wells).
of/    GntlsdioG teosotool atssuorane.
A- Ansosmig average life of 20 yros;  replo-eerto   at NRs 0.55 M per osl:;  sesidual
salon rerovered is year 30.
a/     Assumiag overage life of 7 years (or ubot 189.000 tossing hours);  repl-ceneot ae
NRs 0.2 M per pump-et ( _osubmersible) ovary   p art; 7  -   residul raiue.
f/     Replacec sevey 7 ypro.
S/      Corresposds to  oixed  -ost of iAsallad opatity  (NEs  300/kW/yar).
B- Outed on differential rates foe peak and off-peak, war and dry  -eoton one   (nAn Annm  8)  on phloiag-in of
wels and g-adool i-nrease itn dra-dos.
i/     Spare-, fGols, etr.



-81-
ANNEX 1
Table 21
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
(Stage I Area)
Farm Size Class                         1         2         3         4         5      Total
-------Incremental Present Values (NRs M)-------
1. Gross Value of Production a/   12.74   145.90    61.87    41.00    67.65    329.16
2. Less Production Cost (cash)        2.62    31.78    14.47    13.14    23.59         85.60
3. Gross Margin                      10.12   114.12    47.40    27.86    44.06    243.56
4. Less Depreciation                  0.10      0.70      0.28      0.17      0.23       1.48
5. Less Land Tax                      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00
6. Less Imputed Value of
Own Resources b/                  1.90    19.33      7.95      3.55      3.65      36.38
7. Less Risk Allowance                1.03    11.22       4.00      2.40      3.88     22.53
8. Less Management Fee                0.81      9.41      3.91      2.41      3.98     20.52
9. Land Rent                          6.28    73.46    31.26    19.33    32.32    162.65
10. Rent as % of Gross Margin           62%      64%        66%       69%       76%      67%
11. Volumetric Water Charges           2.30    21.19       9.00      5.07      6.74    44.30
12. Other Water Charges                 -        2.18      2.57      1.63      2.44      8.82
13. Total Charges                      2.30    23.37    11.57        6.70      9.18    53.12
14. Rent Recovery Index                 37%      32%       37%        35%       28%       33%
(13 * 9)
15. Recoverable Cost                   -         -         -         -         -       235.5 d/
16. Cost Recovery Index                -         -         -         -        -           23%
(13 + 15)
17. Farmers' Income Per Capita
(after water charges) c/           821      1,706    2,466    2,726    4,384    1,950
18. Estimated Critical
Consumption Level c/             -         -         -         -         -        1,070
19. Estimated National Per
Capita Income c/                  -        -         -         -         -        2,050
a/  After deduction of losses and seeds, but including by-products
b/  Family labor and labor of owned bullocks
c/  At full development in project year 10 (1992), equivalent to estimated absolute poverty level.
d/ Share of Stage I area in total recoverable cost of the project (para 7.06), when aggregate
cost of existing and new tubewell scheme and apportioning according to size of command.
Actual present value of cost for Stage I area is estimated to NRs 250.0 M.



ANNEX 1
Table 212
-82-.
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE II
Economic Rates of Return
A. Entire Stage I Project, incl. sunk cost:
Incl. TA a/        Excl. TA
Incl. Road Cost                  7.6%                 9.6%
Excl. Road Cost                  8.1%                10.3%
B. New Tubewell Scheme:
Tncl. TA           Excl. TA
Incl. Road Cost                  10.8%                12.0%
Excl. Road Cost                  12.1%                13.6%
C. Entire Stage II Project (O&M and new wells; "best estimate"):
Incl. TA           Excl. TA
Incl. Road Cost                  24.4%                28.6%
Excl. Road Cost                  25.9%                30.6%
a/ TA = Technical Assistance (Advisory Services)



Annex 2
-83-                     Page 1
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Stage II
Consulting Services
Draft Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        Consulting Services are required by the Department of Irriga-
tion, Hydrology and Meteorology and the Department of Agriculture of HMGN
to assist and to advise them in the implementation of the Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Development Project Stage II. The Consultants duty station
would be Bhairawa. The Groundwater Resources Development Board, DIHM and
DA through the project office in Bhairawa would provide appropriate
professional, technical and administrative personnel as counterparts to
work with the consultants.
Proposal
2.        Consulting firms invited to submit a proposal for the required
services should describe in the proposal how they would carry out the
assignment, and give the experience and qualifications of the staff they
intend to assign to the project. A timetable for the various parts of the
assignments and for the deployment of staff should be presented in the
form of a bar chart. In addition to specialists in construction and O&M
of groundwater projects and irrigated agriculture, the consultant team
should include a workshop and equipment management specialist. The con-
sulting services would start on March 1, 1983 and would be provided over a
period ending October 31, 1987.
Scope of Work
3.        The essential objective of the project would be to build up a
long-term capacity to ensure proper operation and effective maintenance of
the tubewell schemes constructed under the stage one project, which, on
the long term would also benefit similar projects elsewhere in Nepal. In
addition, the project would include a pilot demonstration component to
develop, test and demonstrate improved design, construction and O&M stand-
ards for new tubewell schemes. The main components of the project are:
(a) to complete the implementation of the stage one project works;
(b) operation and maintenance of 64 wells equipped with electric
powered pumnps, 280 km of canal distribution, 96 km of village
roads;



-84-
Annex 2
Page 2
(c) procurement of equipment, vehicles, spare parts, construction
materials and workshop and office facilities required to carry
out the project;
(d) planning, design, installation and operation of 15 new tubewells,
equipped with submersible pumps and distribution networks of
buried PVC pipes;
(e) implementation of field channels and organizing farmers in water
users groups;
(f) strengthening of agricultural support services and training;
(g)  monitoring and evaluation studies;
(h) updating an existing feasibility study for a further groundwater
development project in the Bhairawa-Lumbini area to serve
approximately 13,000 ha.
Scope of Services
4.        Management.  The project consultant would advise and assist in:
(a) strengthening the project's capacity to plan, execute,
monitor and operate and maintain the project works;
(b) defining the mechanism and responsibilities of project
management and of the functional divisions, with the objective
to operate the project as an integrated agricultural
development project;
(c) determining the project's staff and budget requirements;
(d) the project's administration, finance and accounting and
auditing procedures.
5.        Operation and Maintenance.  The project consultant would be
responsible for:
(a) the preparation of comprehensive O&M manuals, for the
typical tubewell designs. The manuals for the
tubewell designs would be furnished to HMGN in draft by
November 1983 and in final form by November 1984.
In addition the consultant would advise and assist in:



-85-
Annex 2
Page 3
(b) developing standards and programs for the O&M;
(c) designing a cost accounting system for Operation and
Maintenance;
(d) organizing farmers in water users groups;
(e)  providing guidelines on cn-farm water management practices;
(f) the operation and maintenance of the project's workshop and
fleet of equipment which include the preparation of
guidelines for inventory control to ensure time'ly availability
of supplies, materials and spare parts and preparation of
schedules for regular inspection and overhaul of project's
facilities.r
6.        Engineering.  The project consultant would advise, assist and
supervise the:
(a) preparation of topographic maps for the 2,300 ha gross
Stage II area to a scale of 1:10,000 with 1.0 m contour and to
a scale of 1:2,500 with 0.25 m contour intervals; the
topographic survey would be carried out using the existing
aerial photographs;
(b) the siting of the fifteen new wells, the delineation of the
command areas, and the preparation of detailed specifications
and ICB tender documents for the supply and installation of
submersible pumps, engines, switch gear, casing and
appurtenant works for the 15 tubewells;
(c) staking out the alignments of the village roads,
transmission lines, drains, the pipe distribution lines
and the placing of the outlet valves serving 4 ha areas;
(d) the preparation of detailed designs, specifications and tender
documents suitable for competitive bidding for the village
roads, pump houses, and drains;
(e) the detailed design of a pipe distribution system supplying to
4 ha service units; specifications and tender documents for
the supply and installation of PVC pipes;
(f) design, construction and testing of wells and the
installation of pumping and control equipment.



-86-
Annex 2
Page 4
7.        Agriculture.  The project consultant would:
(a)  advise and assist in managing the extension service in
the Rupandehi district with particular emphasis on the tubewell
areas;
(b)  review cropping patterns and introduce, in consultation with
project staff, cropping patterns best suited to the project
area; introduce improved farm practices, in particular
with regard to wheat cultivation under different soils and
drainage conditions in the project area;
(c) advise and assist in establishing crop demonstration plots
in each season in farmers' fields in the project area, to
demonstrate improved cultural practices including the use
of fertilizer and plant protection chemicals; emphasis
would be laid on demonstrating cropping systems which would
practice intensified crop cultivation throughout the year;
(d) prepare recommendations (crop manuals) for improvement of
farming practices for the anticipated range of agricultural
conditions the recommendations would form the basis for
agricultural extension in the project area;
(e) establish and carry out, in collaboration with project staff,
a program for: (i) in-service training for JT and JTA;
(ii) refresher courses for SMS; and (iii) training techniques
for DADO and SMS;
(f) identify the problems associated with the development of on-farm
water application systems and make, with the help of the project
staff, appropriate recommendations to improve the layout,
design and construction of such facilities;
(g) assist in organizing farmers in water users groups;
(h) visit relevant research stations to obtain data relation to
crop water requirements and utilization practices; prepare
detailed guidelines for on-farm water management of each
crop for use by field staff and farmers in the project area;
assist in staff training programs in on-farm water manage-
ment and operations where required.
8.        Monitoring and Evaluation.  A local consulting firm kAPROSC )
'would advise and assist in:



-87-
Annex 2
Page 5
(a) a periodic review of the progress of project implementation
and in assessing whether the project's objectivcs are being
achieved;
(b) collecting and analyzing data, which would provide guidance
for improving the planning, design, and construction
criteria for public tubewells.
The consultant would carry out short-term studies on the following
subjects:
(c) the role and effectiveness of the water users groups;
(d) the effectiveness of the organizational arrangements for 0&M
of the project including the role of agricultural extension
in it;
(e) an evaluation and comparative analysis of both tubewell systems
in the project.
The expatriate consultant would guide and supervise the work of the local
group.
9.        Training.  As an integrated part of the services, the project
consultant would transfer their experience and know-how to project staff
through on the job training and guidance and through arranging special
training courses for the project staff. As part of the training program
the project consultant would prepare a manual for the planning, design and
operation of the "new" tubewells.
10.       Updating of Feasibility Report.  The project consultant would
revise and update as required the 1979 stage two feasibility report for a
possible future groundwater development project in the Bhairawa-Lumbini
area, covering approximately 13,000 ha. At HIGN's request the consultant
would make necessary arrangements for undertaking the aerial photography
and mapping for the area. For the purpose of carrying out a semi-detailed
soil survey in the Stage II tubewell area (2,300 ha) as well as for the
possible 13,000 ha follow-up project, the project consultant would enter
into contract with a local consulting firm. The project consultant would
supervise their work.
11.       Reporting.  The project consultant would prepare and submit to
the Project Manager a monthly progress report describing the consultants
past activities, future work plan, staff movements, financial statements,
etc. The consultant would advise and assist in the preparation of
quarterly and annual progress reports as well as the project completion
report for submission to IDA.



-88-                                                  Sketch 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA - LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE 11
Typical Well Design
*\\\N\\- Con               crete plinth
22" Drilled hole
(40 m)                               16" ID API casing
Grout                       140 m)
*   2    C asing hanger 16"/10"
13%" Drilled hole    .10" ID API casing
(160 m)                              (about 80 m)
Naturally developed                    10" ID API slotted screen
graded pack                            (about 80 m}
Total depth about 200 m
May, 1982                                        World Bank-23918



-89-
Sketch 2
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE II
100 m 
Surge Riser
4-6          I i -   Outlet Valve
100            350           100
Buried Pipe
160 mm 0 PVC
120 ha Net
Command Area
160 mm
6~~~~~~~
E                                                                  20 2 0 mm 6
4 ha Area                 T-  Tubewell
Served byi                                            _
Outlet Value-                          I      
Schematic of Tubewell
Buried Pipe Distribution System
Approx 3.0 m
Chamber / t
"ERplfded" View
(Float control on pumP/                             /
line a     Cd level probes for   for
pump stop/start not shown)                /t
App,o.. 2.8 m                                         _, 
C )To
l  /            /       D~~~~~~istribution
_                 *~~~~X           Reinforced                             Lop
xc<  Dt)       ~Brickwork/
Control Chamber for
Four-Loop Pipe Distribution System
May .1982                                                                                    World Bank-23891



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE ii
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year         1982                  1983                  1984                  1985                  1986                   1987
Project Year                             1                     2                     3                     4                     5
Monsoon Season!]            //           /          ///                 ,'/ /                 ///V                  //
Credit Effective
Tubewell Systems Stage I
(7,600 ha net or 64 tubewell systems)
Construction of Balance Works
Construction of Field Channels
Operation and Maintenance                                |                                                                 ___
New Tubewell Systems
(1.800 ha net or 15 tubevell systems)                                2,400 ha
Survey and Mapping
Planning and Design
Drilling and Installation
~5                      10
Development and Testing                                                                   5                10
Installation of Pumping Equipment                     l
5                10
Construction of Distribution Network
Operation and Maintenance                             l
5                    20
Roads (25 km)
50%             ~~~50%
Drainage                                                 l_
Power Supply System
Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles                                                       m
Buildings
Technical Assistance and Training
Advisory Services and Training                                                                                                                        -,
Survey and Mapping 
Updating Feasibility Study                                                                                                            13,000 ha
Rehabilitation of Birganj Wells
Procurement                                                                                            _
Construction
Operation and Maintenance
1/ Mid-June to end September                                 Project Start                                                                           Project End    -
November 1, 1982                                                                       November 1, 1987                                 rt
World Bank-23937



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE 11
ORGANIZATION CHART
_    Ministry of Water Resources                                                                            MninustUrY 
|General Manager                                                                     t|em     f I rrgat                          ional Groundwater Rosoorest_                       Dtpertment of
Electri.Ity Corporetion                                                         Hydrology and Meteorology                                Developmet Board                               Agriculture 
Regina Director
Electricity Coprto       ~-         Coodinatingrjo   aae
Project coordination
Cogatrootion   g                                        0  Evaluation and                                                                       ar      er                                       National Exte,nsion
Transmission Lines                                              Mog nitoringl  Station                                                                                             |                        | Project t
Opatind                                                       Groundweter
5 s ;tre                                   Construct'on     |                           |    oPsrat!on and    |                          |  , Agriculture       |                   1                                                          st
and                                                 st.-  Dvson                                     Matnnc                                             Division       |lDvlpetfie    
{~~~~Dvso                                                      Diii                                                Divis- r l
|AIra          b- |        Deelment |rElectrical                           |Canals. Stroctures |                           |        JT                     _ m
tinance  l   1  struction  a stribu-l   |   end Totting    r  1  Installations  e |  ulid eqs  r                         |    Sub-center              Sub-cnter
f    |                            A   ~~~~~~Construto                                                                                                                  JT                     JTAipnn    ll|
Wereah p                RaSd
Wt  Groundwater Resources De-elopment Board                                             21 Project Coordinating Committee
Chairman           -  Secretary to Government, Ministry of Water Resources               Chairman           -  Chref District Officer
Members            -  Director General, DIMM                                             Members               Resident Engineer, NEC
Representatiot, NEC                                                                  -  Manager, Agriculture Research Farm
-  Representation, Ministry of Finance                                                   -  Manager, ADBN, Bhairawa
-  Rapresentative, National Planning Commission                                             Chairman of District Panchayat
-  Representative, Department of Agriculture                                             -  Local Development Officer
- Representatinv, Ministry of Home Affairs                                              -  Pradhan Punch, Village P-nchavats 181
- Repaeeentosrve, Ministry PanchaYat and Local Development Member/Secretery - Project Manager, BLGP
Line of Command                                      - Prepresentative, Department of Electricity
Liaison                                   G ...~~~~~ Gnral Manager, ADBN                                   1Planning and d-cig, of fielarba-nels and
-   -  - - Adoise       Ohserver            - Project Manager, Bhairea Lumbini Project                           ass.stan.e wal, conw.rt-.                                        World Bank-23857
-Advise                           Member/ Secretary  - Chief, Groundwatar Resources Development Section, DIHM



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
STAGE 11
Projected Cropping Patter-n
SUGARCANE 2%-
PIGEON PEA 2%
POTATO 4%
MAIZE
:::: Z7                                       ,           EETABL                 MAIZEL5%
MUNG 5%                        LANI                 PADDY 
PREP             Normal, Local and Improved
,' &                      15% 
. NURSEY 
/             /                                     /  /  PUL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SES
N         {        _                @ ~~~~~~~~LAN D  /7I                                  
/             PREP |P                 PADDY| 
WHEAT 11            /                          |              Normal, HYV
'%  &    /40%
:NURSERY//                                                   't
WH-EAT I
40%
PRE|         Ey La a       Early, HYVL
s   ^             ,#' LAND ;iSf      ~~PADDY            
~~~~~~~~~~RP                              al,Loa an Ipoe                                LS =DS
* &                                     10%                  0
JAN       FEB      MAR      APR      MAY       JUN       JUL       AUG      SEP       OCT      NOV       DEC
Cropping Intensity   Dry Season                                               Wet Season
83%                                                      96%
World Bank-23969



I-                 i--                 C H  N A                                         BHAIRAWA- LUMBINM  GROUNDWA."ID                                                            (AC
I NDIA              7      D                   ~    _'oe:   .,~;ir
MO~.mRegion 
1.1:'AKA  CZ '             j    '                                                                                              ....f                              .-*-- j- . '   .............,. .
f!-'  ,   '   ,  E   2' '  ' i  \      ';     i                   -'                                        ,-o'i,i.r  di Heqml                       I.tny1Edl 1tab   st   n
-  CC                            IC        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    iii..~KthT-     OIe
4 * A '- r r 1*X; ': - ~~~~~.                                               /                                                        -  >       .   Te  rCCCCI   ii, ,!,i
>sH,bf   NK                                                                                                N .)
ROCOCO I X /  i. __ \- +'  l.  <L_4           .. _.   ,          j 1\a
! < ,, j - o. s-r .-. -   i \   ) ' i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIi(H  C
%o,x ,.  i   i' OEn'    'C                                       2, t                                                   N..j -../    ;.      '     -i'
8                N                       o                             \    e                     )          !                          i   r>< $ _    J    \ < 4~~~~N  i,..~                    I
\       L                      .                       :  .          <   ,,,  ',@       #}               \ . C  v----  ,.  C.
I   _ I            1    _                               i';                                       , ;,  ,   ,    ,   .    .   0      C  4~~~~tel.  ii






-   - \  '   -                                                                                             - |                                                  1 - -_
/3                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,             0
H                                                                         >
!(   mo  V O c 1 / i                                           ( 
I      >-    A rX                                                         |   < 1  > (        .  >         !                                        O  I
K                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_          -, .,, '                                                                                                           Q ,  _           >
j   t                                                                                                                                               9~~~~~~~B



