Document ofe o
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3437-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.0 MILLION (SDRs 15.1 MILLION)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER STAGE II PROJECT
December 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only un
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aou_



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since December 17, 1982
US$1.00     =   NRs 14.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm     =  centimeter                   0.39 inches
1 m      =  meter                 =      3.28 feet
1 m3     =  cubic meter                  264 US gallons
1 1      =  liter                 =      0.26 US gallons
1 bbl    =  barrel                =      42 US gallons
1 kg     =  kilogram              =      2.2 pounds
1 km     =  kilometer             =      0.62 miles
1 km2    =  square kilometer      =      0.39 square miles
1 t      =  ton                   =      2,205 pounds
I klW    =  kilowatt              =      1,000 watts
1 MW     =  megawatt              =      1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh    =  kilowatthour          =      1,000 watthours
1 GWh    =  gigawatthour          =      1 million kilowatthours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -  Agricultural Inputs Corporation
BLGPO    -  Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project Office
DADO     -  District Agriculture Development Officer
DI       -  Department of Irrigation
DOA      -  Department of Agriculture
ERR      -  Economic Rate of Return
HMG      -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
MA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
MF       -  Ministry of Forestry
MA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
MWR      -  Ministry of Water Resources
NEC      -  Nepal Electricity Corporation
GRDB     -  Groundwater Resources Development Board
O&M      -  Operation and Maintenance
PCC      -  Project Coordinating Committee
NEPAL FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER STAGE II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 15.1 million
($16.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Objectives       The project aims at ensuring the proper operation and
and Description:         maintenance of the tubewells included under Stage I,
introducing improved tubewell irrigation systems
on a pilot basis, promoting the participation of
farmers in the project, ensuring the provision of
adequate inputs and extension services to farmers and
strengthening the institutions concerned with the
project.
The project would comprise (a) the completion,
operation and maintenance of 64 tubewells built
under Stage I; (b) the construction of 15
improved tubewells on a pilot basis; (c) the
construction of power transmission facilities;
(d) the provision of technical support and training;
(e) the provision of agricultural extension;
(f) improvement and repairs of Birganj tubewells;
and (g) a study to determine groundwater develop-
ment strategies for the Terai. The major benefits
from the project would be increased foodgrain
production, foreign exchange earnings, employment
opportunities and net farm income.
The possible risks related to the project are failure
on the part of HMG to provide adequate power for
the wells, failure of project staff to properly
operate and maintain the project facilities, and
failure to achieve the active participation of
farmers in the project.  However, adequate safeguards
have been built in the project to limit these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works and Materials                  1.9       1.9       3.8
Land Acquisition                           0.1        -        0.1
Vehicles and Equipment                      -        1.1       1.1
Agricultural Inputs                         -        0.1       0.1
Salaries and Operating Cost                1.3       0.5       1.8
Electricity Cost                           0.2       0.6       0.8
Technical Assistance and Training          0.6       3.1       3.7
Birganj Wells Improvement                  0.4       0.7       1.1
Stage I Completion                         1.0       1.2       2.2
Base Costs                                 5.5       9.2      14.7
Contingencies:
Physical                                 0.5       1.1      1.6
Price                                    1.3       1.8      3.1
Total Project Cost                         7.3      12.1      19.4
Financing Plan:
HMG                                        3.2        -        3.2
IDA                                        3.9      12.1      16.0
Farmers                                    0.2        -        0.2
Total                                      7.3      12.1      19.4
Estimated             IDA FY          FY83     FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Disbursements:
Annual          1.0       3.2    3.9    4.2    3.0    0.7
Cumulative      1.0       4.2    8.1   12.3   15.3   16.0
Economic Rate of Return (entire project):  29% (excluding sunk cost and
technical assistance)
Staff Appraisal Report:                       No.4038-NEP, dated December 6, 1982
Maps:                                         IBRD 16431 and 16432
1/ Project costs include taxes and duties estimated at US$0.2 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL FOR A
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER STAGE II PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 15.1 million ($16.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
to help finance a Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Stage II Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Nepal - Policies and Prospects for
Accelerated Growth" (Report No. 3577-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on October 15, 1981. The principal findings of the report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.      By almost any standard, Nepal is one of the least developed countries
in the world. Per capita income is estimated at $156 (1981) 2/ and health
and education standards are well below the average for South Asia: life
expectancy at birth is only about 44 years, infant mortality is 150 per
thousand, and adult literacy is only about 20%. The population, estimated to
be 15.0 million (1981), grew at a rate of about 2.6% per year during 1971 to
1981. About 95% of the population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land has reached very high
levels and is threatening to overwhelm the resource base of the economy.
Cultivation has been extended beyond economically feasible and ecologically
safe limits in the Hills, and together with denudation of forests to meet
housing and fuel needs, soil erosion has become a critical problem. Firewood
and water have become more difficult to obtain as the forests are reduced
and springs and streams dry up. This degradation of the agricultural
base has made even the present low level of living standards difficult to
maintain.
5.      Agriculture accounts for nearly 60% of Nepal's GDP and 75% of
merchandise exports, and provides the main source of livelihood to over 90%
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. P-3211-NEP) dated May 20, 1982 for the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project in Nepal, distributed to the
Executive Directors under cover of the Secretary's Memorandum IDA/R82-69.
2/ World Bank Atlas methodology, using the exchange rate then prevailing
($1 = Rs 12).



-2-
of the population. Crop production accounts for about 60% of agricultural
output, livestock for 30%, and forestry for 10%. Paddy is the predominant
food crop (planted on about half of the total cropped area), followed by
maize, wheat, millet, and barley; cash crops (oilseeds, jute, sugar and
tobacco) are grown on about 10% of the cropped area. About 25% of total
rural incomes arise from nonagricultural activities, of which cottage
industries are one of the more important and engages over one million people
on a part time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourism. The exploitation of the
vast hydropower resources, however, beyond that required to satisfy the
country's own power demand, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability to enter
complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighboring
countries. The tourism sector, based on Nepal's magnificent landscape and
rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic though it still accounts for only
about 1% of GDP.
7.      When modernization efforts started in the early 1950s, there was
virtually no economic or administrative infrastructure, and initial develop-
ment efforts were necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation for
future development. The Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/80) marked a
shift in development objectives; acceleration of economic growth, employment
creation and raising living standards of the population became major plan
objectives. Development expenditures rose during this period and there were
substantial shifts in the composition of spending away from transport to
agriculture, power and social services. GDP growth, however, barely kept up
with that of population, and the continued economic stagnation since the mid
1970s needs to be overcome.
8.      Part of the reason for this stagnation lies in factors beyond Nepal's
control. The difficult topography and poor resource base are obviously
important in retarding growth. Nepal's landlocked position, long open border
with India and the dependence of its overseas trade on transit through India
create additional disadvantages. While Nepal benefits from the proximity of
a vast potential market for Nepalese goods, the ability to pursue independent
economic policy measures is circumscribed. Furthermore, industrial develop-
ment faces the competition of a far larger and more efficient industrial
sector in India.
9.      But factors within Nepal's control have also contributed to the
stagnation. Problems with the implementation of projects in most sectors of
the economy have constrained the growth of public sector capital formation
which grew at an average of only 5.5% per annum in real terms during the
1970s. In addition, the returns on investments were often lower than
expected because necessary complementary investments or current spending were
lacking, and because of managerial deficiencies. A good example is the
agriculture sector, where output stagnated despite considerable investments
in irrigation, a virtual doubling of the irrigated area and a 40% increase in



-3-
fertilizer use between 1974/75 and 1979/80. In the past, insufficient atten-
tion was paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this was com-
pounded by inadequate support services such as extension and research, by the
lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs such as
credit, and by the lack of farm-to-market roads. Recent major irrigation
projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are now addressing
some of these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated
approaches.
10.     Although Government revenue efforts have improved considerably over
time, revenues have now reached only the equivalent of about 9% of GDP, which
is low by international standards. With limited domestic resources, current
expenditures have been squeezed in an effort to generate savings for invest-
ment spending, with the result that the efficiency of total spending was
lowered. Furthermore, while about one quarter of total budgetary expendi-
tures (regular and development) was being financed by the rest of the world
in 1974/75, this proportion was 36% in 1981/82.
11.     The slow economic growth has been accompanied by a widening trade
deficit. Import payments have grown while the trend in export earnings has
been sluggish due to declining rice exports. Increased tourism receipts and
remittances, together with foreign assistance in the form of grants and
concessionary financing have, however, generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. But even so, foreign exchange reserves have
declined from being equivalent to about one year of imports in the early
1970s to six months in 1981.
12.     Whereas 1980/81 was a year of recovery from the previous year's
severe drought, 1981/82 was a more modest year; agricultural production is
estimated to have grown by 3.5% and GDP by about 4%. Budgetary developments
were, however, quite encouraging. Development expenditures increased
sharply, and revenue collections increased substantially for the second
successive year. Nevertheless, the budget deficit increased from about 5.5%
of GDP in 1980/81 to about 8.5% in 1981/82, and while foreign assistance also
increased, domestic borrowing rose sharply. Early reports indicate that the
1982 monsoon has been less than satisfactory and this will adversely affect
economic performance in 1982/83.
13.     On September 19, 1981 Nepal unified its exchange rate with the US
dollar at NRs 13.2 = $1; the exchange rate with the Indian rupee was
unchanged at NRs 145 = 100. This completed a series of steps to reform
Nepal's exchange rate system which began when a complex system of multiple
exchange rates and trade restrictions for overseas trade was replaced with a
dual exchange system on March 31, 1978. A technical adjustment to
re-establish cross-rates between the Indian and Nepalese Rupees was effected
on December 17, 1982 setting the exchange rate with the US dollar at
NRs 14.3 = US$1.
14.     During 1979-81 economic policy making had been delayed by political
developments during 1979-81.  Following disturbances in 1979, a referendum



-4-
was held in May 1980, which reaffirmed the existing partyless system, with
suitable reforms. The constitution was amended in December 1980 to provide,
among other things, for direct election of members of parliament. General
elections were held in Hay 1981, and the political situation appears to have
since stabilized. During the past year, the Government has been able to
focus its attention on economic problems and on implementing the Sixth Plan
(1980/81-1984/85).
15.     The Sixth Plan reflects Nepal's determination to search for ways to
overcome stagnation and, as a set of objectives, it was endorsed by members
of the Nepal Aid group at its December 1981 meeting. The strategy to shift
investment into more productive sectors is continued and emphasis is given to
alleviating some of the factors that limited past growth. The Plan's prin-
cipal objectives are to increase production at a faster rate, to increase
productive employment, and to meet basic minimum needs in food, fuel
(firewood), drinking water, health services, primary education and rural
transportation. The strategy: (i) accords high priority to developing
agriculture, small-scale industries and Nepal's abundant water resources;
(ii) stresses soil conservation and population control; and (iii) emphasizes
full utilization of existing infrastructure and alleviation of absorptive
capacity constraints. The development strategy also calls for full involve-
ment of the private sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism,
construction and transport operations.
16.     Achieving the Plan's objectives will require quick-yielding sector
programs to generate growth in the short to medium-term as well as human
resource development programs to lay the foundation for sustained growth in
the longer term. Program targets must also be made consistent with overall
financial and implementation capacity. But at the same time, vigorous
measures are needed to remove administrative and domestic financial con-
straints, and the Government has begun to respond to the problems. Reforms in
development administration include the establishment of an Administrative
Staff College; appointment of a Permanent Pay Commission to review civil
service salaries and schemes of service; creation of a Central Monitoring
Unit within the Foreign Aid Division of the Ministry of Finance; and estab-
lishment of treasury offices in each of Nepal's 75 districts to expedite the
release and audit of budgetary funds. The record 49% increase in development
expenditures during 1981/82 may indicate these efforts to speed up disburse-
ments are starting to pay off. To strengthen domestic resource mobiiliza-
tion, the Government has set up a revenue training center; formed a Tariff
Board which recommended increases in indirect taxes for the 1982/83 budget;
made preparations for close monitoring of all public enterprises and also
liquidated certain of these enterprises; and decided to phase out rice and
fertilizer subsidies in the relatively higher-income Kathmandu Valley.
17.     Nepal has received substantial external assistance.  Aid commitments
averaged $165 million per year since 1976, but, according to current indica-
tions, could reach an average of about $300 million per year during
1981/82-1983/84. Foreign assistance is expected to account for about 53% of
total development spending during the Sixth Plan period. The Nepal Aid Group



-5-
was foraed in 1976 to assist in the overall coordination of financial and
technical assistance efforts and the Group now accounts for some 70% of all
aid disbursements. The Group has met four times at plenary meetings under
the chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external assistance needs;
local Aid Group meetings in Kathmandu are also held to discuss and coordinate
sectoral development strategies.
18.     Foreign aid disbursements grew rapidly in current prices during the
past five years and were estimated to be $156 million in 1981/82, but only
about 42% of disbursements were from foreign borrowings, the remainder being
grants. As of December 31, 1981, official foreign debt outstanding was $234
million, of which $192 million was due to multilateral agencies. These loans
were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of total
loans remains in excess of 70%. As a result, debt service payments were only
$4.0 million during 1981, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of goods and
services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit of
$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 29
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to $326.5 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's many
development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide variety of
sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 79% of IDA credits by
amount: irrigation/agriculture ($110.2 million for nine projects); water
supply and sewerage ($46.8 million for three projects); power ($40.8 million
for one project); telecommunications ($21.7 million for three projects);
highways ($19.2 million for two projects); and rural development ($19.0
million for two projects). The proposed credit would be the first in FY83,
bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to $342.5 million equiv-
alent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC
made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1 million) in a hotel project in
Kathmandu in FY75. In addition, IFC approved a loan of $6.23 million equiv-
alent to Nepal Orind MIagnesite (Private) Limited (i.e., a private company) on
March 16, 1982. The loan was to help finance a $24.9 million project to mine
and process magnesite ore. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Group operations as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of
ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of some
of these projects, particularly during the initial periods. The delays have
been largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities.
In order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable techni-
cal assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, including our Resident
Representative in Kathmandu. As a result, the rate of disbursements is
improving; during FY81 and FY82, $27.8 million and $28.5 million equivalent,
respectively, was disbursed compared to $65.1 million equivalent disbursed
during the entire previous 10 years. Project completion reports have been
prepared for four projects--First Telecommunications (Credit No.166, $1.7



-6-
million equivalent), First Highways (Credit No. 223, $2.2 million equiv-
alent), Tourism (Credit No. 291, $3.2 million equivalent), and Birganj
Irrigation (Credit No.373, $6.0 million equivalent). All four projects
experienced delays in implementation, and institutional improvements were
less than anticipated; however, all four generated acceptable rates of
return. A fifth completion report on the Settlement Project (Credit No. 505,
$6.0 million equivalent) has also been written and is under review.
20.     Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development
and, to date, the shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The
main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implemen-
tation. The Bank Group has been assisting the Government in project prepara-
tion through a Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP, $3.0 million
equivalent) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical
assistance projects financed by UNDP. The Bank Group 'has also addressed the
problem of absorptive capacity through its role in organizing the Aid Group
for Nepal (para 17).
21.     The Bank Group's current lending strategy places major emphasis upon
the productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development of
complementary infrastructure, including manpower training programs and
facilities, transport, and hydroelectric power. For agriculture, the basic
strategy is to assist Nepal to maintain overall self-sufficiency in foodgrain
production and, when possible, promote exports of agricultural products.  The
strategy has two major elements: (a) to assist in building the irrigation
infrastructure in the Terai mainly to increase paddy production, and (b) to
help reduce the food deficits in the Hills both through rural development
projects which emphasize increasing food production, and more recently
through specific Hill food projects. To increase the chances for the success
of these efforts, we have, at the same time, assisted in the improvement of
agricultural extension services as well as the provision of agricultural
inputs, including credit. Preparation of projects in cash crops, forestry,
leather industry, agricultural manpower development, highways and hydroelec-
tric power is underway.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
22.     Agriculture is key to economic development in Nepal.  It accounts
for 60% of GDP and exports, and 90% of employment. Of the total land area
available for cultivation , less than 15% is irrigated. About 90% of the
cropped area is used for foodgrains including rice (covering about 50% of
the area), maize, wheat, some other cereals and pulses. Agricultural growth
is largely determined by the performance of foodgrain production. Less than
10% of the cropped area is under cash crops, mainly oilseeds, jute, sugar-
cane, potato and tobacco.



-7-
23.     The production of major foodgrains, except for wheat, has not been
satisfactory over the past decade; it has not kept pace with the rate of
population increase which averaged 2.6% per annum. Apart from the lead time
required for investments to start yielding, the unsatisfactory performance is
accounted for by such factors as erratic rainfall, loss of land due to ero-
sion, poor management and insufficient support services, and lack of ade-
quately trained manpower. The Government is taking measures to overcome
these constraints. The measures include development of irrigation to reduce
dependence on rainfed agriculture and/or to supplement the monsoons, formula-
tion of suitable forestry and soil conservation programs, improvements in
input supply and extension services, development of manpower training
programs, and intensification of command area development, i.e., secondary
and field level irrigation infrastructure. The performance of public sector
irrigation based agricultural development projects is under review by the
Water and Energy Commission of the Ministry of Water Resources. Cash crops,
however, fared better due to favorable prices and the fact that these crops
are mainly grown in the Terai where the environmental conditions are more
favorable. The increase in production of cash crops was derived from
expanded cultivation (area increase) rather than from increased yields.
24.     The institutions responsible for agricultural development and policy
include: the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), the Ministry of Water Resources
(MWR), and the Ministry of Forestry (MF). MA includes the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) which is entrusted with the task of promoting production
through extension, training and research. It has also overall responsibility
for a number of public institutions such as the Agricultural Development Bank
of Nepal (ADBN) and the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC). ADBN, estab-
lished in 1967, is the main source of institutional credit in agriculture;
to date, the commercial banks play only a minor role in this sector. ADBN
extends short, medium and long-term loans to individual farmers, groups of
farmers, cooperative societies and village committees. At present, its
lending covers about 25% of total agricultural credit requirements. The
supply of agricultural inputs is the responsibility of AIC which procures
both abroad and locally, and stores and distributes all inputs through a
network of regional and district branches. The Department of Irrigation (DI),
which is a part of the Ministry of Water Resources, is responsible for the
construction, operation and maintenance of public sector irrigation projects.
The Ministry of Forestry is responsible for the Forestry sector.
25.     The irrigation sector in Nepal remains vital to increased agricul-
tural production and it is one of the major sectors receiving IDA assistance.
A recent review of the sector has indicated that nearly two-thirds of poten-
tial irrigable area, mostly in the Terai, remains to be developed by a short-
and medium-term strategy of concentrating effort at completion of basic
infrastructure (roads, irrigation, power) at the more favorable locations in
the Western Terai. In the somewhat better developed Central and Eastern
Terai the best strategy would appear to be strong promotion of year-round
multiple cropping combined with cash crops development. This would be
achieved by year-round intensive irrigation including private and community



-8-
wells, conjunctive use of groundwater in existing rudimentary irrigation
project areas and surface water modernization coupled with intensive manage-
ment of existing assets, and agricultural extension.
26.     The proposed Stage II project is a follow up on the first stage of a
groundwater development program to provide irrigation to the Western Terai.
The Stage I project, supported by an IDA credit of US$9 million which became
effective in November 1976, included: the design and installation of 64 1/
tubewells, distribution networks, transmission lines, village roads, grain
storage facilities and the strengthening of agricultural support services in
the project areas. Due to inadequate staffing, cumbersome procurement and
land acquisition procedures, and the poor performance of local contractors,
the construction of project facilities, the acquisition of construction
materials and repair of equipment and vehicles was held up. With the arrival
of essential construction equipment and machines, the implementation of
project works has picked up and completion of the project is now scheduled
for mid-1983.
27.     The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project is the first relatively
large size tubewell development scheme in Nepal. At present, very little
experience exists with the operation of electrically driven tubewells and
with the distribution of water to a relatively large number of farmers. In
order to generate project benefits as projected, HMG requested IDA's assis-
tance for a Stage II project to help with the operation and maintenance of
the completed wells and canal infrastructure and to build up the required
institutions for O&M of this and similar groundwater development projects in
the future.
28.     The Birganj Irrigation Project (IDA Credit No. 373) was the first
irrigation project undertaken with IDA assistance in Nepal. It comprised the
establishment of improved surface irrigation facilities on about 28,400 ha
in the Central Terai, the rehabilitation of 14 existing tubewells and the
construction of 14 new tubewells on 2,700 ha. The project faced a number of
serious problems and delays, mainly linked to the lack of sufficiently
qualified, experienced and equipped local contractors (there was no interest
on the part of foreign contractors to bid for the works), shortcomings in
management during the first years, shortages of construction materials, and
shortage of trained and experienced engineering and agricultural staff. The
project was completed in mid-1981; however, due partly to technical problems
and partly to shortages of funds, most of the 28 wells have not been properly
maintained. Therefore, about US$1.0 million has been included in the
proposed credit for the repair and improvement of the wells.
1/ 63 + I observation well converted to a production well.



-9-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.     The project is intended mainly to ensure the proper operation and
maintenance of the tubewells included under Stage I, to introduce improved
tubewell irrigation systems on a pilot basis in an area adjoining the area of
Stage I, to organize the participation of farmers in the project area in the
irrigation systems included in the project, to ensure the provision of ade-
quate agricultural inputs and extension services to such farmers, and to
strengthen the Borrower's institutions responsible for the planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of tubewell irrigation systems. It
is based on a report prepared with the assistance of consultants (Tahal
Engineers Ltd. of Israel) and the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which
visited Nepal in February/March 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
during November 29-December 31, 1982. HMG was represented by a delegation
led by Mr. I.B. Shrestha, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice.  A
report entitled "Nepal: Bhairawa-Lurabini Groundwater Project - Stage II,
Staff Appraisal Report" (Report No. 4038-NEP, dated December 6, 1982) is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A timetable of key
events relating to the project and the special conditions of the proposed
credit are given in Annex III.
Project Description
30.     The Project comprises the following components:
A. Completion of Works, Operation and Maintenance of
Tubewells under Stage I
About 80% of the Stage I project works, including the drilling of
60 of the 64 tubewells, has been completed as of October 1982. The remaining
works are scheduled for completion by mid-1983. Project implementation was
initially delayed due, inter alia, to inadequate staffing and budget alloca-
tions, cumbersome procurement, tendering and land acquisition procedures and
poor performance of local contractors. These problems have largely been
resolved in the course of project implementation. Nevertheless, delays have
resulted in a cost overrun estimated at US$1.9 million, representing higher
costs for civil works, project staff and consulting services. Because of
budgetary constraints, the Government is unable to finance these cost over-
runs. The required amount is, therefore, included in the Stage II credit.
The Stage II credit also includes financing of O&M costs not only because of
budgetary constraints on the part of the Government but also because reliable
and sufficient funding for O&M would be crucial for the achievement of
project objectives.
The works and services under Stage I that need to be completed
include installation of the tubewells; construction of water distribution
and drainage canals, gravel roads, power transmission lines and field chan-
nels; formation of water users groups; and operation and maintenance of



-10-
tubewells. This component also includes the procurement of vehicles, spare
parts, construction materials and workshop and office facilities required for
operating and maintaining the tubewells.
B. Additional Pilot Tubewell Systems
Under this component, the project would experiment with improved
technologies in the design and construction of new tubewell irrigation sys-
tems. 15 tubewell systems would be installed on a pilot basis to enable
comparison with the technology used for the Stage I tubewells. If the new
systems prove to be more efficient and more suitable for Nepal, they will be
used in future groundwater development projects.
The component also includes operation and maintenance and formation
of water users groups for the 15 new tubewell systems; construction of
improved water distribution systems, 100 km of field channels and 25 km of
gravel roads; and extension of power transmission lines from the Stage I area
to the new tubewells.
C. Agricultural Extension and Training
Under the project, the T&V (Training and Visit) system of agricul-
tural extension would be strengthened in the entire Rupandehi District. 1/
This would include in-service training for extension workers, regular farm
visits and periodic monitoring of the results. The extension effort would
focus on on-farm water management and improvement in the use of high yielding
variety seeds for major crops.
D. Technical Assistance and Training
About 190 man-months of consultancy services are provided under the
project over a five-year period at an estimated cost of about US$10,000 per
man-month. The consultants would (i) advise and guide the project staff in
project management, in organizing and implementing the day-to-day O&M
activities, and provide in-service training; (ii) be responsible for provid-
ing the plans, designs, tender documents and construction supervision for the
15 new tubewells; and (iii) also advise on broader project aspects such as
cost recovery, preparation of bid documents and evaluation of bids, monitor-
ing of project costs and benefits.
The proposed credit would also include US$1.0 million for the provi-
sion of consultants and training to assist the Government in strengthening
the institutions responsible for implementing irrigation projects. The
US$1.0 million would be allocated to specific IDA-assisted on-going irriga-
tion projects by mutual agreement between the Government and IDA. One likely
1/ The district comprises about 75,000 ha of agricultural land of which the
project's tubewell areas cover 9,400 ha.



-11-
allocation would be the funding of consultancy services required to complete
the implementation of the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Project
(Credit No. 812). Because of delay of at least two years in implementation,
the allocation for technical assistance included under Credit No. 812 will
run out before the completion of the project (which is now expected by
mid-1986). Additional funds would, therefore, be required to continue the
consultancy services needed for project implementation. The qualifications
and experience of all the consultants financed under the IDA credit, their terms
of reference and the terms and conditions of their appointment would be
subject to IDA's approval (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).
E. Repair and Improvement of Birganj Tubewells
This component includes funding for the repair, improvement and O&M
of 28 tubewell systems (see para 29) and to convert an observation well to
a production well at Birganj. The cost is estimated at US$1.2 million. The
component would be implemented by staff of the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board (NZIDB) which would also be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the tubewell systems. To strengthen NZIDB's capacity to
properly operate and maintain the wells and to supply agricultural inputs
and support services to the farmers in the command areas of the tubewells,
this component would finance salaries, allowances, staff quarters, transport
and operating expenses for O&M and agricultural project staff over a period
of five years.
F. Study of Alternative Groundwater Development Strategies
Consulting services would be required to assist the Groundwater
Resources Development Board in undertaking a comprehensive study of past,
present and projected future performance of various public and private
groundwater development alternatives in the Terai in Nepal. Prior to the
anticipated start of the study, an IDA mission will review in the field the
data base necessary for the work primarily to narrow the scope of the
proposed study, to update and if necessary amend the draft terms of reference
for the study. In order to make as much use as possible of the construction
and O&M experience obtained from the Bhairawa Lumbini and Birganj projects
the study would be initiated in 1985. The final report would be submitted by
March 1986. It is estimated that about 30 man-months would be required for
the study, at an estimated cost of US$10,000 per man-month. Qualified local
consultants may be used in collaboration with foreign consultants. Consult-
ants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions are satisfac-
tory to IDA would be employed for the purpose of carrying out the study
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).
Project Implementation
31.     The implementation of Stage I was carried out by existing line agen-
cies which were brought together in the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project
Office headed by a Project Manager. The Project Manager was responsible to
the Groundwater Resources Development Board (GRDB) for programming, budgeting



-12-
and finance, and coordinated all project components. This organizational
arrangement has worked satisfactorily and will be continued for Stage II;
however, in view of its importance, O&M would be separated from construction
and handled by its own full-time staff under the Project Manager.
32.     The project would be implemented under the overall responsibility
of the Department of Irrigation (DI) of the Ministry of Water Resources.
Coordination at the national level on all policy matters would continue to be
the responsibility of the Groundwater Resources Development Board (GRDB).
The Board's functions would also include: approval of key staff appoint-
ments, annual budget proposals for the execution of the project and award of
large contracts and consultants agreements; and semi-annual reviews of
implementation programs and progress. In order to improve coordination of
project activities and ensure that actions requiring Board approval are
quickly brought to the Board's attention, HMG has agreed to include the
Project Manager as an observer on GRDB for all matters relating to the
project (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). Coordination at the
project level is handled by the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) set up
under Stage I. This committee is chaired by the Chief District Officer; its
meetings are convened by the Project Manager who is a member secretary of the
committee.
33.     The Project Manager would be based at the Project Office in Bhairawa
and would have direct responsibility for the implementation of the project.
He would have four Divisions under him: (a) General Administration and
Finance Division responsible for, inter alia, personnel, procurement, budget-
ing, finance; (b) Construction Division responsible for planning, design, and
construction; (c) Operation and Maintenance Division dealing with O&M mat-
ters; and (d) Agricultural Division handling mainly agricultural extension
and the organization of farmers into water users groups.
34.     The Project would be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the pumping equipment, canals and structures as well as pipe distribution
networks. The water users groups to be established for each tubewell command
area would provide assistance to the project staff in drawing up rotational
water distribution schedules and the actual implementation of the schedules.
The groups would also play a key role in the planning, construction and the
O&M of field channels below the 4-5 ha outlets. Since properly functioning
water users groups and the existence of field channels below the 4-5 ha
outlets are considered key elements in achieving an equitable distribution of
water to each farmer, the formation of water user groups and the construction
of field channels in the tubewell command areas should be given top priority.
HMG has agreed that (a) no water would be supplied from completed wells until
water users groups have been set up and are ready to assume responsibility
for water distribution below the 4-5 ha outlets; and (b) the drilling of any
of the fifteen new tubewells would not start until two-thirds of the
beneficiaries have formally agreed to form water users groups and to pay
water charges (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(a)).



-13-
35.     Monitoring and evaluation activities under the project would be
carried out by a special unit directly under the Project Manager.  HMG has
agreed to establish such a unit and to staff it with an engineer, an agricul-
tural officer and a statistician. The existing groundwater monitoring unit
would be integrated in the new monitoring and evaluation unit to be estab-
lished directly under the project manager (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.05(d)).
Cost Recovery
36.     The majority of the beneficiaries would be small farmers.  Per capita
incomes of the farmers in the project area now average about US$67 per year,
which is well below the national per capita income of US$156 per annum
(1981). The project would raise average farmers' incomes from present
poverty levels to close to the national average; however, farmers' ability to
pay would still be limited for most beneficiaries. The projected level of
cost recovery would be, on average, about Rs 1,000 per ha at full develop-
ment, which is slightly higher than the estimated annual costs of O&M and
replacement costs of pumps and motors. HMG has agreed to establish, by March
1, 1983, a technical committee charged with the preparation of proposals for
a suitable new system of water charges for public tubewell irrigation based
on the following principles: (a) the new system would include a charge per
hour, based on an estimate of the marginal economic cost of pumping 1/ per
volume of water normally received by a farmer at the outlet during an hour of
service; (b) in order to achieve an agreed minimum rate of cost recovery,
and considering desired distributional effects and the need to protect mar-
ginal farmers and tenants from excessive charges, a fixed charge per ha would
be levied on medium and large farmers. As an alternative to (b), HMG may
consider a modification of the existing land tax legislation to levy a sur-
charge on land with access to a reliable public irrigation service. As a
minimum, all operation and maintenance costs and an allowance for replacement
of pumps and motors would be covered by the new system of water charges. The
proposals would be submitted to IDA, by December 31, 1983, for review and
comments. The new system, which would be acceptable to IDA and would permit
adequate cost recovery for public tubewell irrigation, is to be implemented
and made operational by March 31, 1984. Until such time as a new system of
water charges has been introduced, HMG would continue to charge the present
rate for public irrigation systems (Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.04). Present water charges in public irrigation schemes, most of which are
surface water schemes, are based on a flat rate of about NRslOO (US$7.6) per
ha per crop.
1/ Includes long-run marginal cost of power and energy, at economic prices,
and variable maintenance costs.



-14-
Cost and Financing
37.     The total project cost (over a five-year period, 1982-87) is
estimated at US$19.4 million, including the Birganj tubewell improvement
component and about US$0.2 million in taxes and duties. Of the total amount,
US$12.1 million or 62% of total project cost is in foreign exchange and
US$7.3 million equivalent in local cost. The proposed credit of US$16.0
million would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of the project plus
US$3.9 million of local cost, amounting to about 82% of total project costs.
Local cost financing is recommended in view of the country's limited capacity
to generate resources (see paragraph 10 above). HMG would contribute US$3.2
million and the project farmers US$0.2 million equivalent towards the finan-
cing of local costs. The IDA credit includes an estimated US$1.5 million for
retroactive financing of expenditures incurred from March 1982. Due to delay
in implementation, the Stage I project is facing a cost overrun of about
US$1.9 million. Although the project has not yet been completed, the
proceeds of the Stage I credit have been fully disbursed. The proposed
credit therefore provides funds for the completion of Stage I, including
US$1.5 million of retroactive financing to permit uninterrupted tubewell
installation, civil works construction and consultancy services. The project
cost includes the following contingency provisions: physical contingency of
15% for civil works, salaries, allowances and operating expenses; 10% for
equipment, materials, technical assistance and training; and price contin-
gency of about 21% of the baseline cost. Price contingencies have been
estimated assuming annual inflation of 9% in FY83, 8% in FY84, 7.5% in FY85,
7% in FY86 and 6% in FY87 and FY88 for local costs; and 8% in FY83, 7.7% in
FY84, 7.2% in FY85, 6.5% in FY86 and 6% in FY87 and FY88 for foreign costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
38.     The construction of roads, the supply and installation of the PVC
pipe conveyance system and the supply and erection of the power transmission
lines, totalling about US$2.3 million, or 40% of civil works, would be con-
tracted through international competition bidding (ICB). Eligible domestic
bidders would be given a preference of 7-1/2%. The construction of the
drainage systems, buildings and other minor works, each estimated at less
than US$50,000 in value but totalling about US$2.6 million or 45% of civil
works, would be contracted on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to IDA; these small works, scattered over the project
area, would not be of interest to foreign bidders. About 15% of the works,
estimated at US$0.8 million, would be constructed by force account; these
works include the drilling, development, testing of tubewells and improvement
of Birganj wells, mainly using existing equipment. Of the total cost of
goods under the project, estimated at US$4.8 million, about 75% would be
procured through ICB. Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a
preference in ICB bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price or the import duty,
whichever is lower. About 25% of the goods, would be procured on the basis
of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA; this would be restricted to basic con-
struction materials such as brick, stone, cement or urgently required spare
parts for operation and maintenance. All bidding packages estimated to cost



-15-
US$50,000 equivalent or more, 90% of all the procurement by value, would be
subject to IDA's prior review; the remaining contracts would be subject to
IDA's post-review.
39.     Disbursements from the credit would be made over five years against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory and
75% of other local expenditures for materials, equipment, agricultural
inputs, vehicles and spare parts; (b) 100% of total expenditures for techni-
cal assistance and overseas training; (c) 50% of total expenditures for staff
salaries, allowances, local training, and operating costs exclusive of elec-
tricity cost; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures
for civil works carried out under contract; and (e) 40% of local expenditures
for civil works executed by force account. Disbursements under (c) and (e)
above would be made against certified statements of expenditures. The
project costs would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(c)).
Benefits and Risks
40.     The major benefits from the project would be the substantial increase
in foodgrain production in the project area, mainly rice, wheat, maize and
pulses, increased foreign exchange earnings and employment opportunities to
over 4,700 farm families who are mainly small subsistence farmers; and
substantial increases in net farm income. At full development of the
project, it is estimated that production of foodgrains would increase by
about 27,300 tons, equivalent to an increase of 185% over production without
tubewell irrigation; average per capita income of project farmers would also
increase to about US$148 after water charges (from US$67 at present).
Agricultural employment is estimated to increase from about 1.2 million to
about 2 million man-days, or by about 63%. It is also expected that employ-
ment in the non-farm sector (both rural and urban) would increase as a result
of additional demand for marketing, transport and processing facilities.
There are also unquantified benefits such as those related to village roads;
these benefits include improved communication, resulting in time and tran-
sport cost savings as well as additional economic activities such as the
production and marketing of vegetables by farm families along the roads.
Another benefit is the availability of safe drinking water from the
tubewells.
41.     The economic viability of the Stage I Project (i.e. the 64 tubewells)
has been re-assessed; and it is now estimated to yield an economic rate of
return of about 10% (including sunk costs, but excluding the cost of techni-
cal assistance). The new tubewell scheme is expected to yield an economic
rate of return of about 12% (excluding the cost of technical assistance).
The rate of return of the entire proposed project has been estimated at about
29% (excluding sunk costs and technical assistance).
42.     A possible risk would be the underutilization of the project
tubewells. Utilization of the project tubewells as projected would depend
mainly on three factors: adequate power supply to the wells, the ability of



-16-
the project staff to operate and maintain the project facilities successfully
and active farmers' participation. To minimize the risk of underutilization
of the wells the project would support measures to strengthen the operation
and maintenance performance to supply irrigation water in a reliable, timely
and equitable manner. HMG's agreement to operate the 33 kV line from the
Gandak West power station to the project area as a dedicated feeder would
assure a reliable supply (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09(b)).
Institutional weaknesses most prevalent in Nepal, such as lack of coordina-
tion between Government departments, have been identified and dealt with in
the proposed project organization. In order to reduce the management risk
and supply the required technical assistance, provisions have been made under
the credit for consultancy services. Increased motivation for farmers to
participate in the project is provided through the strengthening of the
extension service and the establishment of water user groups under the
project. Consequently the risk associated with this project is acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
44.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
45.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
46.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
December 29, 1982



ANFEX 7
-17-
TABI. 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlEET
NEPAL                        REFERENCE CROUPS (WFIGHTED AVF'RAGES
AREA (THOlSANO sq. KM.)                                                         -  MOST RECENT ESTIFATE)-
IOTAL            i40.8                                 MOST RECENT          LOW IlNCO4E           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      40.2              1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
NP PER CAPITA (USS)                   50.0         70.0    156.0               261.4                    890.1
FNEFGY CONS;U';PT1ON PLR CAPITA
(EELOUCAIIS Of CO/E. EQUiVA'L:NT)    4.3         14.9      13.0              448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TI9LSANOS)  S447.0     11355.0  15020.5 Lc
URBAN POPULATIO;i (PERCENT OF TOIAL) 3.1         3.9        5.0               17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULAIIUN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      22.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         53.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPL'ULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       67.1        80.6      101.3              158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTUPAI. LAND    267.4      312.4      354.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPVLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         39.1        42.0      42.5                36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         57.4        55.0      54.5                59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         3.0        3.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.3         1.8         4LC               2.0                      2.3
UREAN                              4.4         4.2        4.9                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.6         45.5       42.1               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DRATII RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.5        23.7       19.8               11.0                      9.8
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.7         3.0        3.0                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLA'.NING
ACCEPTO.S, AMNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        37.4     146.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          0.7/d     4.3/d              19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NIUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0       101.0      89.0               108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.2        94.5      88.7/e              97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER LAY)          50.8        50.5      46.51e              56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIIIAL AND PULSE       9.5         9.2       8.4/i              20.0                    13.9
C-HILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    32.6        27.8       23.0               10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.6        40.5      44.2                57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          194.5       172.5     150.2                89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION )
TOTAL                               ..         2.0       8.0/f              32.9                    32.0
URBAN                             47.7        53.0      81.0/f              70.7                    51.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0/7              22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ,,         1.0       1. O/              18.1                    37.7
URBAN                               ,.        14.0      14.0f&              72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         73804.7     51380.1/h 35896.6/h            3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSI11G PERSON        ..    70528.071; 13513.67h            4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           8294.1      6938.4   6398.5/e             1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                            286.8       329.1     360.0/i.            301.3                   651.6
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                  ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.5
URBAN                              5.4          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NHEBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.0          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOIAL                               ..          ..
IJRII.A                           30.2          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



-18-                                                           AEN 2
Page 2
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEFAI.                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVOPAGES
MOST RKFfNT ESTIMA7E)-a
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLRARY:     TOTAL                  10.0         26.0      88.0                 97.4                      96.2
KALE                  19.0         43.0      124.0               101.C                      99.8
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       49.0                87.8                      92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0         10.0      19.0                 53.0                      37.6
MALE                  11.0         16.0       30.0                63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                 2.0          3.0        8.0                41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   0.2            2.4        6.8/c               1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.3         21.7      32.9/e               37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                           32.0           ..      24.8/e               20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          8.8         14.3       19.0/f              52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1          0.4/i       ..                 1.5                       9.8
RADIO RFCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0/1        4.8      17.5                 35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVEELN PLR THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                 3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.7          2.4        7.3/f              16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                 3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (IHDUSANDS)       4875.1       5536.6    6967.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.5        39.2       39.1                 29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.0         94.0      93.0                 70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          2.0       2.0                 15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.6         48.8      47.6                 40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  Q1.,         58.6       ,i.Q                ...0                       n.,
FEMALE                                41.8         38.6      37.5                 23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        1.0                 1.D                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PKIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT CF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      35.3/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..      59.2/e.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       4.6..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       8.o/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSULUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      95.0                133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      45.0                111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                     17B.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      41.0                   ..                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
L'RBAN                                ..           ..      55.0/e               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      61.0/i               51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/Ia  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic meana.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unlers other.ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 198L
/e  1911, annual &routh rate is fcr 191-81.  .'d  Government progrrms only.  L.  1977.
s1976   Lg  1975.  lb  Tcrsonzol in governMnent services only.  /f  1968.  D   1963.
Revised
September, 1982



-19-                                                                                         Annex I
tN- :  dleesth the Uat are dens  ftam  aaron   ra-1tl   jdged the                 . ne th.atbotati-e and reliable, it should also be noted  htha  they may not be Inter-
nationaly ropsreble berna   of the l1rk of st-dedt.nd defttinito  aot conepts .and by diff-eren   conurie  I. collecing  the data.  The da.tare. tote-
thelean   .ftt1 to describe orders of magnitude, tdinae tred.  and.o, chroracee  c--ni  major Otffereuces belfa-oco ris
The .efere... groups a.e  .I) the toycuor   ooputhibrtuhctc-otoyaod  (2) aco..otoy forty eith  -onhoha  bighot  -orof  itro..e  hoon the ....otry groop
oftbo subjec  coor   (eucepo for   'tttgh   oon            Oil Ozcprtert  groupner  "Mtiddle Iooe Month Attica aod Middle ta-t" in rho-   becaue of  -irtte
otootoloffilattles)  1. to th fr fereore group data the acnrn0- ac  pop.1taiooneightea1 aIh-eIcI                     foraic  each tdIcau ad shun  ouly ebh-
aoItyof the coon lea to a go..ap ha  data foe  tha  iod iracor.  lice theco-rage of coorn    no teId-Ico-r  dlepedt cc the aoiluhillcyofdt
one iodi-cator at   tine amog the coun.try asd r.efre.ct gots.W~
ARUh (thousand nq.ka.j                                                                               PoPulatIonf   ptootttd-ttl   ra,adrrl-Pplto    ttl
-Total - Total turface area c-8r iting laud ana nod ioled ncr;11da.ohn.nd -rual  dioidad by tbei r retPeolioe   abet of hospta  bedn
Ea iutual-ta lne otfgtuioa    rra uaed t                      oeil    r    19c79ueIly-        oaiable io  nlcadproc   eea  ar   ycahe    opitlan1
for croy. poat-ree, staket nod kitchen goodets or to lie fallon; 1979 daco.                        hab,  tooooen              oynl   r  esaltbet     -enoety  tIaff
by at lesI    o   hyticlan . nE      IttI ertprootdle  princtyalyran--
180 Pta CAPITA 1101 - lOP pet caita eatinatet atcutreo  nariet   iten  cal          dial tent are no-tlded.  toa h..           ptI ls   hnnor.  loclude health
caae   ynm   o-oe-i- mothnd at Wonld'Bauk A'tlas  (119ff-At hoatal)  1'96i0.               ndediclcoenotrtaetysafd b     hnra   htb
1971, and 1981 data.                                                                                  edical a..sLnint.  cuse  a:id-le, ot.)aich offer 10-patI totI              c~
datioo aud pro-ide a limiced ra-ge of nndtca1 facilt - ln    Par stani-
fENfaY COSIUSPTPION PUR CAPITA - aooua o1       aatinof   - -rotl noerg   lona                         tica1 purpotenorhtboop lninclud  -nu   rt-rten/ne oe-o  honp-ol..
and IIgotie. peeolet,  -...onI gas and hydro-, toclear and  -eoterma  elec-                          aud rural hnpilnals, Local or nato  honPitaln and  edica1 aod nantnliny
oricto-yf Io bognaof -oa1 eqti-al-   pee capita; 19ff. 1971. ad 1979                                 coters.SIpeialteed honpitaln are iocloded otly  ouder Itoial
do-.                                                                                              Adiaonprtnio   n   -  otn  o-shr of adulations to or diacharges
fra bo-pitaln dinided by rha tueber of bedn.
POPUlATION AllD VITAL. STATISTICS
Tnlpplto,Mid-Teat (thnoaa...d) - An of Jtly 1; l9hU, 1978, .an  1988                   AINGC
dat.                                                                                            A-eroe line of RaunhoId freenoon .por hontebhld  - toal ora.ad rural-
Irhan PooaI.t Ipe--n   f nta)     tn    of aIno. to tonal populatito;                                A hoo-hald conInt  oI a grop Iof ldloidoals  ho thoarn liotog  q-atee
difeeo    efintIII-  of or          .. ea  may affect cop ..abilily of da.                         aod thIr .  ao eat.A boar.der or lodger ea  r 00my  -o  be inrlnded In
_19t--.-         870, and lAng d-ta                                                      the hoone.hold 'for  tointta    .puo o.-
P-op tl-tn  Pool octiou                                                                           A-ergnto-t-ofyetotpr  om-oal.rbn..d..l-oeag   o-
PosoIIn Io yeate 28780-C.oren  popolantot peolecIfon  one base.d .. 1980                       her of Pnrn   pernti  oil ur1ban, au  Irurl occpind  --onotiona.l
tota1  .pnotanio  by age and net and their  -artllt  an d teotility  -oten.                     d-ellirgo,  e-pectio-ly.  Inalllogo  eoclodeno-eoa tottr -otee -o
Projectoc,  faaeettrsortol.iop ' eate  compoie of thyna lacela  .st.. tccPiedpats
ito  lt a  oecancyat brthiocreatlig nith ...re.    ft0 pt  lcm                        Acoo  I   lectit   yno             of drllioonl     toa,uban, and rural-
.L.nel, ad feesla litI enperitucy  -tb II  lenot  75yan   The Para-                              Corn  ca nlhiogt nith electricity  ho  lotiog qoe-te-t aspttg
nrteetfoe frtiliY  tote alan ha-n thre . ne. .      t..o.dclneI                            of totl, unban  ad  ura1 dn-11iogs rapectionLy.
tetiltIyicndlgt    -cn  I.o.. and fon  fanlly Planniogpeforane
lohontr  is then  saigned -oe of thesee oite   mio loof  -ornlity                          EDUCATION
and fnoiiIy I-ornda for P_enojolo   -popone.                                                  Adga-edInrolloos iatloa
Sttaie.. ey fppo.iatt     - loa  onlnaypop.intiot thereI  ogot   ic                                Poimoro nh,oI-ttl,mlr d fenale   -lost                      . mole and female
the binob tte  is equa  to Ohe deah rote. or  alao therge%   aouIur  on_orl or of ul  agen at the primary  l-el an percentogen  of olaecti
maacntat 4hsitahee  onlaterfertli-ryrtesdc  n   0prlIy irhool-age populations; tortlly iteludet childnet aged A-il
tbe replacesen  le..elIof "Itinntreprod-ctonrtn  ohec noob groeratilo                              yer   :o djanted fun diffternot le-gnn of primay edac..tioo; for
of__oen rcplac-  ic-nf  ro-ctly.  Th   atinry  population  ie  nncorIn mAth unioncsolId-catocrrolt-   may  -nc-d 1010 percet
eniieefed on the basin of tho  njnsd hlrootoint ion of ohe Popl-tu-                                nioc  non  popln are belon nr o1boo. the aficial .cheol ag.
Io the yea  2f00, and the  atet of decliho  of fertility rate to  eylace.-                       n-od~ar  nohool - tta,  ol  nod femle - Conpoted an oh ne  -eood-te
-en  le-el.                                                                                       eduani.  oneoqir-nat  .ens. taut  oarn of approoe  priar 'Y            nncit
Tear stationary eooulatlio  in te-ehd - Thte yea  aih         ta. tor  pola-ioo                      pro-lde-  te-ral,-octI-local  on          l. teahe    iriog itoonnfnr pupils
titei  e-nhad.                                                                              -aoily oft12otf 17nat of ao   octconc    0m                      rt  -earily
Pen na. km     M id-ye-t population po sqarkilonetet (ill hoontori. aofTo-tincol e                                Jnollno  (ne r-oo   af uectdary) - Pocatina  ltsitif..i.nn
Petotal ae;1860, 1911  and 1979 data.                                                             inolade ieohoi-al, ind-ntlal. or other poogrss obich operota indepeod-
Prn.k. agoi-tlro  Iaod -Connotd as above fotrgrcltrl -ad                                     -rtly or a.dpnianuofneodaryintttn.
ouly; 1960. 1970 oud 1979 dato.                                                               Poil-tacI      caio  -pinry, a-a  -ecodry -ouTal  -ndentanorotlad in
fopoatriot Age  Stro't.re (peeceno) - Children  li-l4 ynti . nothing-age (15-                        posradncondary Leo-I. dirided by  o-ber- of neanheon In the
hA year), and entirad f65 y-nra andan)a  porrceerage   of nid-yeac poyc-                           cries.ponding ile-t.
lotion; 1960, 1870, atd 1980 data.                                                              Adult Ilitreroocin  (oercenno, - Lltno..   aduls fble to read and  iteune
Pop   Iaios leonth Rate (rece..n t - total1  deroal fret       -ro   of itol. ild-                   aop-oc-ooge of.troo  odotIpopua...n Aged 15 yoam   and oven.
yerpoys-acle  for 195f-i.19170-f, sd1970-80.
"PouaIon"    "Ish tte  (,na...oof - urhan - A.troa  groI-t ronn  of -rbo  Popu-                 CONSUMiPTION
latloni fun 1900Al  19 70, aad 19f0-8                                                           Pannor Cot (oat thoc....d ....olatiof-   Pongnoan                    arn   mater
mo.de Mirth Rtat  (pet th-nt..od) - Ansai lIon bietha per thousad of nid-y.eoer cco taoi    Itothat night pert-n;  -10ldtn ambalancot, h Latu  n
paPtlatian; 1961), 1970. and  98i data.                                                             fli-ono  orhirle.
Crodo  -ttah tac  (per cho-nod  - -...I dracl  par ibo-nad  ot cd-yo-c                            tdor tneloi-nno  Irrhoo.....dAilo -51  types of -nreto-t  for radio
popolatiot; 196f, 1978, and 19810data.                                                             brrod .a.stto g-eoeI yablic Peo tIuadof  poplatIon; toldenA-
boat Reotodoction  Rtae- A-,age  oushn- of daoohners Ano-aillha  in. le                              licae-d o             icot -ns i -ctte  and to yearn ahe. e-gist-ato   ofrai
bet  .t-na  rpr-dnotion perind if she  -peotincet present oety                forfe-               eto non In off-t; data for re-eo  7ero maY cot be cntaahe   in
IllItynoten;as-11y  fio-y-o    ran  eudiog In 181,0 19ff, ad 19t0                                 so_no countyt   abolished llcening.
Penal0Placnin-Ac piotn.Annualfibaaondn)- aeol  ober of ocoepo.rt                         TV Uetreirs font shocuatd popolatiocf - IV roe-foam  too be...dIac to
of bitihb     IIt--ouoo Msio    no  atapton of aotiooaI faily pl.ooing progr".                     generalpbt.e1hoadypltc;  oldnaliendT   enor
famlt  innlo-Users lperceon of marrIed nomoo  - P-ernta  of teried                              ivooto-tri-n aud In rear  thttei            rtnof TO tort acti   ef
ltuneef~ cid-bnaaiog age flO-WA yeastuue birth-ooott~%oldeolent                                  esnaenIrsltr N(per iChaunarldpyuaio - hnthoaeanir
all  -arred n oIo tote ago gonop.                                                                 cltioo   f"alygtttItenr o..sP.pt"  dfindosynoiol.
puhlttcaiio   deotodF yolmrly on Io..ordin   goeo  rnnn              ti.ao-idered
POOD Ally 8lflITIOt                                                                                    cc be "doily"- if ito appnar  at lean  for fIis a na
lcdo o  Pod  ocdcno   ne  oita  1i969-fl-liUf2  - lodn  of pot rapitannarleoAoa   redneytCaIopeOa-on    0teotbto
prudotio   ofal  trodHn oitan   Pn-otoooldnne   c   edadookt   oldrn   I   n                                                         nldn dmlsn.intsi        s  dpi-oe-tr.i-eo
is on caleodan ononb.t.    -oneiteo re  pnt_ry goo:ds (t. sfaror-ad mobile  -oint..
itttnad of nofar) An lob  re CdIhIn and contain ttoon(..  coffe o-
tea arI tldd.   AgAtegotn p-od-tcii    tf each  --ny In hae ..             n dLAtORt PORCE
nationlasrg   peodre  prOIm-    aight; 1991-AS, 1870, -od 1888 data.Turo1 Lahot Froo     (thoono.od.f - F,-oc -r11y ortion                                   roa  iocl.dioo
Per oapit. sorly of        loin  prcent of reqsieem-t) - Coopttoe   rnarned..een.o  ueA=oe  buhncoig                                                -ooe -on  trent, ec.
netogy eqooa1et of  -n  food nypl ins -nilble in o.uot,Y Per ",a pic                               croigPotJ.i,  of oI  ge.'  teftoitont to  -api... o-ntrien ate
yet day.  Aralable sopphiea  -ouptine d-tannt  prodootice  iyot  lets                              -c  cryarahle; l9iU, 1970 and 19An dat.
enporo. andchag    in-noIk  tNt noppyl ttetc lod a,1oisol te,ed. te-dt.mao(eret                                         F-1Pea   labor farce Fau peretgo of Ottol labor fo,rte.
qoiinundItofood peenn,allne   od lsb,o  c.tqin                                            Arr'tr  (reon)-Lao  forca i                               .a.uo,   nrcy'   ' hotio0  n
it nete eutnI and by FAO hate d ton physiological nedi for canma  aci                            ithing as petnotoge of total labor lote; 1960, 1970  nd 1980 dota.
lity and health ....nidentoeooroetltneaue  body neigha,ag                                         ldtttn    (pe,rceo)    labor force io ainio.  oonocio.sooiuing
ood te- ittoito   roatia.atIlont    0prcn   oo a..sre an                                            ad ele-roeti y, toter aod gas as percetage of conol  abot force;
hosoeblt lnel;f 19-61-hI19,70 audN1,977 da-.                                                        1960, 1970 and 1080 data.
PerortanoolrO poao (ra- per$00- yr-aunroi no  of Per  -a ita                               ytr~ttoitpano lon ..r.n...           otl mi, o  feslc   -paocctrai- or
"oinppiy of food Per. day    et otpl  ofylfrod it defiond aobore.  R-                             ociityt-otonreoeot8a  total  so                   -od fenle laboor  00ea
qoesotfun all otr ie   nrbinhed by JitA pootdn 1 or nlisi-                                  peroa-nag- of tia          1oe -od female  .popultion  of all ages ae--tio-ly;
alan onfa hIgota    of troa  prutele pro day and 20 geoso of aoinal and                     19ff , 1970,..od 1980 dato.  Theo- ae bate.d or ILO'n panoiiipattot Itote
pult. Protein, of nhich 10 goaa aboold be oulnal proteio.  Thbn  tiood-                           tIlclgg-etrcoeof che pupolatin-   and long tin   trend.  A
-tdnare Iosooharcb.a. off75gnomaoftcuna1 proinrolgaat iftnot_it_annt                                              orc  fuoartoc_so-e-
animal potelo am 00n-        aefor the marIa, rop.osd by PAn Io the Third                       Oroo-ib Dpendooy Ratio  - tacit of  .poplatino  oude  10 otd 60 and tr
World Food Snrony; 1961-65, 1970 aod 1977 data                                                    to hn total labor force.
Pl caPIta prtien tplyl fron anial nod polen- Proneic a-ply of food dr-
riod  ro  atman  od Fautt   ram  Per day. 1961-6b. 1870 and 1977 data.                  INCOHOf DISTRIBUTItON
ahtldPfDee1A)bo ho Ratelea  c             -unn) - Anua1nub  pee tho....od to                      Peonoro   ron   e             e(ohi    ahmdA              ) -   eojn-od by  irhub-u
age groupi- I Yeurs  no childreo in chia age grosp, for sot  de-eltping co-                       5ettet  richent 20 pe-rcet, p..re.  20 pecoeot, mod parent 40 percent
tIas_ dnt. dettoed trot life tables; 1960, 1970 atd 1980 data,                                    of h....eha1ds.
HE ALTH toronytPOVtRTY TARGtT  GRtOUPS
Lift                enrpb o-ora - 81   Y..     A.noa.a nuahe  of ra-r  of life ronoiriog          Tha foloignn  an            rrty oppro.timte saar of yorrty I.o-I.,
at birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data                                                                and ahoald he i-c-precad nith  -ouidt rahIn atin
1sfoan -lroltly ~tar  loer thoasad) -Ano1 deatha of infan-nod-oroe. year                          -nti tid Abtolote Po-noy i.too            level (US$        II.)pta  - arbat ad rural -
aagpethoad lice births; l.9hg  17an190dt.hAbolnt.. p-oteey  on    Ine  Inht broom    leee  bene ahiob aAnimol
Acrcesan. tt  Watr enrfe        ofe       lItt) -oa,orbac. sodrurl -Non-                                ntrai    dequate dIet Pla             ero    t-food requitenons in  o
her of  .PsIy. (ttlorban  an  total) Anthnn- -nblescotoaf                                           ffordabln
eater  apply Itolode.t ireamd n..ac  no. tees or anraerId hoI ocoIai-aed                        E.intmaed Rnlotioe Porerty Itoome Lnel. (UIeun               t  - urba and rural -
ase -ah an that tfom pretarted boreholea, syrioga, and sutiory  mall) an                        ooa  rel-nt-  e-erny to-ee leon  In  to-third  of aoneprcpt
pennentagrn ni their remperrio- ptytlationn.  Inanon-b-na,eIaytblic                               pesnlitm If thef,cototry.I Urbatoinel lis dreimd f nothe natal
fionrateo or trndynp - ecaned eo  mere than 200 meters. foam a hone  _oY he                       leenlethb  djut-e  for hi gheecotf r           llot    In orb.n. e
ro-iderad as bein  -uiteasnbla  -cea  at that botue.  Inroro   -na                              Rtaan   Poptto    elndmlt  Poetrorlocoy   leve  lPeec t -ar
rens...able  norss  1nd iply nhbnthnb  hnouesifeno menbers of the, bIseI                   ud27-rort  -Per1cetof PnE. ain  Iunad raa) ah.renbml
doroa  haen  apen    diaptoporttfmte pant of teda toi fetobiogth                                  poOrt.
A.t-s  to fotetst DtfPan f.  pntent of pplta)-tetat, orbao,. ad total -
Muter If paIn(tota,    Ian  ood tota) snored by tncrrntadiapoat1 at
peoentage at teft.  reape:tti- Ppoplotinna.  fRretoI  diapasi  apinLa.de
the talietikan nod diapas      ithn an eimost  - -stt, atI            a -met
and -nst-ente  by_eten-hero_ aYane    at the us  of pit Petoten and stab
Poptaati=   ten Physaician - Paptintian dielded hp  -tb- of prttciso   physt-                                                             E-nsmi  and Sactat Mac  DLtei.in
tian   qaitfied fern. a mdloni shobal at aonos..ity lenel,                                                                         ramomic toIYsL. and Pnjertians DepsetmaL
Peenatins pen Nuenfen Pe-n   - Papmnitian divided by nsb-oe  of pe...tiaiog                                                                            Myn 1982
malt and femal  geadmatennna            i.otatat maaa, pemrtirat nanse  sa
ateta   nnL taneg



-20-
ANM'FX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981: US$156
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTHI, 1960-1979
(%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %
GDP at Market Prices                  1,989        100.0                                   3.1
Gross Domestic Investment               268         13.5
Gross Domestic Saving                    148         7.4
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                       -72        -3.6
Exports of Goods, NFS                   241         12.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                   361        18.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80
Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force a/           Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %             Mln.      %_                 J7S$
Agriculture                           1,065         57              6.9       93                155
Industry                                251         14              0.1        2             1,696
Services                                543        29               0.4        5             1,468
Total/Average                    1,859       100               7.4     100                251
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
% of GDP
1978/79       1979/80       1980/81        1981/82       1979/80
Current Receipts                       1,791.6        1,852.9       2,403.9       2,900.9          8.9
Current Expenditures                      982.1       1,055.4       1,263.6       1,588.9          4.9
Current Surplus                           809.5         797.5       1,140.3       1,312.0          4.0
Capital Expenditure                    1,961.5        2,293.2       2,726.1       4.032.9         12.4
External Assistance (Net)                 989.4       1,317.8       1,531.1       2,024.0          6.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1978     1979      1980      1981          1982
mid-April
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                                 3,772    4,512    5,285    6,308            7,332
Bank Credit to Government                               966    1,129    1,258    1,263            1,785
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise                        869    1,080    1,131    1,401            1,292
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         1,072    1,332    1,917    2,498            2,641
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                      19.3      21.1      22.1      22.2
General Price Index (1974/75 = 100)                   113.3    117.3    128.7    145.9            159.6 (April)
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                    11.2       3.5       9.8      13.4           9.2 (April on April)
Bank Credit to Government                              28.9      16.9      11.4       0.4          42.4
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                      70.1      24.3       4.7      23.9           3.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          24.1      24.3      43.9      30.3          10.2
Note: All conversions to IJS dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
not available



-2 1-
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1980/81 a/
US$ Mln.      %
1978/79    1979/80    1980/81
(Millions us$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                       108.5        95.1       134.4              Agricultural products                   100.7       75.1
Imports, c.i.f. b/                      244.7       294.3        370.2             Manufactures                             33.4        24.9
Trade Balance                      135.2      -199.2      -235.8                  Total                               134.1      100.0
Services, net                            65.6         91.6        93.1
of which:  Tourism                     41.8         54.0        64.5             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
US$ Mln.
Transfers, net                           30.1         36.1
of which:  Private Remit.              25.5        29.6         40.4             Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                233.9
Indian Excise Fund          3.0         3.1         4.8              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance            -39.7       -71.7       -96.4              Total Outstanding & Disbursed              233.9
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                           42.9        63.2        71.7
Official Capital, net                     36.0        48.1        52.8
Private Capital, net                       9.7       -37.4       -11.9              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1980/81 c/
Change in Reserves                 -48.9        -2.2       -16.2              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed               1.9
(- Increase)
Gross Reserves (mid-July)                179.8       187.0       192.5
Net Reserves                             151.0       153.2       174.9              IBRD/IDA LENDING, (June 1982)(Millions US$)
IBRD        IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum           16.7        30.2          NA              Outstanding & Disbursed                             121.4
Exports of which:  Petroleum            --           --          --              Undisbursed                               ----      205.2
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed        326.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975                  From March 20, 1978
through March 20, 1978             through September 19, 1981                  Since September 19, 1981               Since December 17, 1982
US$1.00 = NRs 12.5                 US$1.00 = NRs 12.00                         US$1.00 = NRs 13.20                    US$1.00 = NRs 14.30
NR 1.00 = US$  0.08                NR 1.00 = US$ 0.083                         NR 1.00 = US$ 0.076                    NR 1.00 = US$ 0.070
a/ Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
September 1982



-22-                          ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982) /a
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.    Year       Borrower               Purpose                      IDA    Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed                                         39.0
397   1973   Kingdom of Nepal   Telecommunications II               5.5        0.2
470   1974   Kingdom of Nepal   Water Supply and Sewerage           11.8       1.8
505   1974   Kingdom of Nepal   Settlement                          6.0        3.1
600   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Kulekhani Hydroelectric             14.8       2.8
617   1976   Kingdom of Nepal   Rural Development                   8.0        3.4
654   1976   Kingdom of Nepal   Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater    9.0            0.2
659   1976   Kingdom of Nepal   Technical Assistance                3.0        0.2
704   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Water Supply & Sewerage  8.0            3.0
705   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Industrial Dev. Corporation         4.0        2.0
730   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Highway                      17.0       4.2
772   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Technical Education                 5.7        3.9
799   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Telecommunications III             14.5       12.7
812   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)    30.0           21.5
856   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Narayani Zone)         14.0       10.1
939   1979   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Rural Development           11.0       10.9
1008   1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Community Forestry                 17.0       16.5
1055   1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Mahakali)              16.0       15.3
1059   1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Third Water Supply & Sewerage  27.0           26.1
1062/c 1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Grain Storage                       6.2        6.0
10937   1981   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Babai)                 3.5        1.6
1100/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal   Agricultural Extension & Res.  17.5           12.9
1101/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal   Hill Food Production                8.0        6.7
1191/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal   Cottage & Small Industries          6.5        6.5
1198/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Education                   14.3       14.3
1260/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal   Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                        9.2        9.2
Total,                                               326.5      195.1
of which has been repaid                             0.1
Total now outstanding /b                             326.4
Total now held by IDA                                326.4
Total Undisbursed                                               195.1
/a  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b  Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c  IDA 6th Credits, Principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar equivalent at date
of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and Disbursement amounts
at the rate of SDR on September 30, 1982.



-23-                             ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount ($ millions)
Year    Obligor           Type of Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1975   Soaltee Hotel      Hotel                   2.7        0.4        3.1
(Pvt) Ltd.
1982   Nepal Orind        Mine and process        5.9         -         5.9
Magnesite        magnesite ore
(Private)
Limited                                  8.6       0.4        9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC          8.2       0.4        8.6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 397 Telecommunications Project II $5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Procurement for switching equipment was initially delayed due to
difficulties with the selected bidder after award decision and the need for
rebidding. The procurement for this item has subsequently been combined in
one tender with procurement for a similar equipment under the third project.
Credit No. 470  Water Supply and Sewerage Project $11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a long mobilization period the project is now nearing comple-
tion with 85% of the credit disbursed. Because of delays in completing the
sewerage component, due to physical and contractural difficulties, the clos-
ing date had to be extended by 6 months to June 30, 1983. This was also
occasioned by delays in delivery of pipes for the remaining water supply
component. The British experts, funded by the UK Overseas Development
Administration to help WSSB operate its water supply facilities in Kathmandu
valley, have now completed their assignment and departed Nepal.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems which
are being encountered and the action being taken. They should be used
in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport to present
a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505  Settlement Project $6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date; July 15,
1982
The project has been closed on scheduled date, i.e. July 15, 1982.
The project failed to achieve revised targets for land clearing and settle-
ment; only 66% of forest land had been cleared and 44% of families settled by
the closing date. The project suffered from shift in Government policy on
timber export, and from implementation problems relating to timber extraction
and land use. The Government is being consulted regarding cancellation of
the remaining balance.
Credit No. 600 Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project; $40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Reservoir impounding commenced on June 9, 1981. When headrace tunnel
was tested with water for first time on November 8, 1981, water leakages were
observed, which on subsequent investigation, were found due to inadequate
grouting. Immediate rectification work was started and a panel of experts
was also set up by the Bank to suggest remedial steps. The additional works
have been undertaken. With the approval of the panel of experts, the tunnel
was refilled with water and Unit No.1 was commissioned on March 13, 1982.
Since that date, all restrictions on the use of electricity in the central
grid system of Nepal have been removed. Unit No. 2 was commissioned on March
29, 1982.
The present cost estimate is $119.93 million, including taxes and
duties but excluding any claims by contractors and additional works. The
foreign portion of the cost estimate is $98.39 million. The Government of
Nepal is evaluating the claims to work out the total cost.
Credit No. 617 Rural Development Project; $8.0 million Credit of April 30,
1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Until about the end of 1980, implementation progress had been satis-
factory for most of the components (except health, education and livestock
development) and nearly 70-80% of physical targets had been achieved.
However, implementation was unsatisfactory during 1981 due to (a) inadequate
local funding of the project, (b) poor management and coordination of project
activities, (c) inadequate control and supervision of the activities of the
Panchayats involved in construction work, and (d) the inability of the Minis-
try of Local Development to provide leadership in matters of programming and
implementing activities of the various line ministries. Since early 1982,
the situation has improved with HMG having released the required funds and
administrative action to improve implementation having been initiated.



-25-
A-NEXK i'l'
Credit No. 654  Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Pro4ect; $9O rn'1ic3n
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  P, - b&c
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
55 of the 64 planned tubewells, which are '_c i r'rgai - C2 E. xvz
been constructed and drilling is nearly completed. Progress on Li     ctruc
tion of the canal distribution network is slow due to the weakrness of local
contractors.  However, all civil works contracts have been awardec and the
project is scheduled for completion by mid-1983. The follow-lup Stage Ti
project would concentrate on ensuring effective operation an  malintenance of
the infrastructure built under Stage I.
Credit No. 659 Technical Assistance Project $3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976.
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Four subprojects are ongoing and include:  the I"arsyangdi Techinical
Review Panel, second phase of the Cash Crop Development, second phase of
Electrical Accessories, and Primary School Mapping. These are proceeding
satisfactorily. Eleven of the subprojects financed under the technical
assistance credit have been completed and contributed to the pipeline of
bankable projects in Nepal.
Credit No. 704  Second Water Supply and Sewerage Proect         0 millicn
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:  Februarv 28,91978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Slowness in recruiting consultants delayed declaring the credit
effective and, as a result, project implementation was hampered. Procurement
of materials is now well advanced although suppliers, to whom awards were
made for pressure pipes, have had difficulty in meeting promised delivery
schedules. These problems have been overcome, enabling a construction start
at the various sites. The contractor engaged on building the sewerage com-
ponent under this project is the same as the one having diffiLculties under
Credit 470-NEP with a similar contract. Should delays continue, the sewer
contract may need to be rescinded and relet.
Credit No. 705 Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Prolect; $4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date: February 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Since March 31, 1982 (latest date of subloan authorization) NIDC has
fully committed the $4.0 million Credit. Close supervision is being carried
out to ensure further improvements in NIDC's operations and implementatiorn of
subprojects and disbursements under the Credit within the closing date.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 730 Second Highway Project; $17.0 million Credit of October 19,
1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now moving steadily towards a successful conclusion,
though there remain several areas where improved performance is required.
Procurement, which has been a source of considerable delay in the past, is
now virtually complete. The work on the Thankot-Naubise road pavement has
now been completed. Much supervisory attention is currently being given to
the Tulsipur feeder road in an effort to improve performance on a few con-
tracts. Disbursements, which currently stand at 75% of appraisal estimates,
are expected to improve substantially over the next year since the major
project component has been completed.
Credit No. 772 Technical Education Project; $5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project, which provides new facilities for technician training at
the Institute of Engineering in Kathmandu, will be completed by June 1983.
Good progress has been made with equipment procurement, furniture procurement
and part of the civil works.
However, one contractor on the site has failed to achieve target
dates for construction, partly due to shortage of materials, but mainly due
to overcommitment of labor and machines on other contracts. Civil works are
now expected to be completed by June 1983. Educational objectives, espe-
cially teaching quality improvements, which had been jeopardized by student
strikes, are more likely to be achieved now that the new Vice Chancellor of
the University has adopted a more resolute approach to students and student
problems.
Credit No. 799 Third Telecommunications Project $14.5 million Credit of
August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The earth
station for satellite communication and the international telex exchange
(both financed by ODA of UK) have been completed and commissioned. Procure-
ment under the IDA credit is also progressing satisfactorily. About US$12.2
million of the credit has been committed.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 812 Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
$30 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major flood
in the Kosi river, causing a considerable erosion and endangering the Chatra
Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. Investiga-
tions for the design of headreach works to improve the water supply to and
distribution within the main canal have been completed. The ICB process for
the construction of the headreach improvements and irrigation and drainage
works in about 12,000 ha has been completed; bids have been evaluated and a
contract award has taken place. Project implementation has fallen about two
years behind schedule.
Credit No. 856 Narayani Zone Irrigation - Stage II Project
$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in all six irrigation blocks.  Most civil works
and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 939  Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills $11.0
million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
Project progress since credit effectiveness has been negligible due
to:  (a) delays in setting up and staffing of project management;  (b) delays
in constructing project headquarters; (c) remoteness of the project area and
communication difficulties; (d) dislocation created by the devastating earth-
quake in the project area during June 1980; and (e) delay in the release of
budgeted funds. Recently, some civil works have started, and a considerable
amount of initial planning and design work for major construction work under
the project has been completed. Consequently, implementation is likely to
pick up pace.
Credit No. 1008 Community Forestry Development and Training Project $17.0
million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date: September 19,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Project is progressing well. An effective administrative
organization has been established into which the UNDP/FAO technical assis-
tance team has been integrated. Most planting targets have been achieved.
Motivation and Education, and Monitoring and Evaluation programs are being
efficiently conducted. Project committees have been set up and are function-
ing. Architects have been appointed for construction of training facilities
at Pokhara, Hetaura and Kathmandu. The designs for the Kathmandu Training



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Wing have been started by the Training Wing and Tribhuvan University. The
urban fuelwood study has been completed.
Credit No. 1055 Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I); $16.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: February 27,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Contracts for undertaking the survey and engineering designs have
been awarded to local engineering consultants. Most of the work is progress-
ing satisfactorily. ICB tenders for the procurement of the project's equip-
ment and vehicles requirements have been invited. The project area has been
reduced by about 20%, because (i) inaccurate maps were used, and (ii) HMG
decided to put restrictions on forest cloning.
Credit No. 1059 Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $27.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: August 27,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The credit was declared effective August 27, 1981, about 9 months
after the original effectiveness date. Consultants, appointed by WSSB, using
the experience gained on Credits 704-NEP and 470-NEP quickly produced bidding
documents which have allowed early award of certain materials contracts.
Final design of civil works is well underway and contracts are being grouped
for efficient implementation.
Credit No. 1062 Grain Storage Project; $6.2 million Credit of January 14,
1981; Effective Date: July 31, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
Engineering staff for the project have been engaged and implementa-
tion work commenced. The project study on marketing is completed, and the
one on future storage and processing needs is well underway. Consultants
have been engaged to assist Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) in management,
finance and quality control. NFC started last season with primary procure-
ment on a trial basis.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1093 Babai Irrigation Engineering Project; $3.5 million Credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 5, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Consultants were contracted in May 1981, and project implementation
is proceeding on schedule. The detailed design work is under way. Pre-
qualifications for the construction of project works are being processed.
Credit No. 1100 Agricultural Extension and Research Project; $17.5 million
Credit of April 6, 1981; Effective Date: July 8, 1981;
Closing Date: July 15, 1987
The Project Coordinator is in position. Orientation training for
Agricultural Development Officers, Subject Matter Specialists, Junior Tech-
nicians, Junior Technical Assistants and Panchayat Level Agricultural Assis-
tants, has been completed in the first two project districts (Jhapa and
Nawalparasi) and field work has started.
Professional staff recruitment and progress of civil works is slow.
The first year's supply of fertilizer has been received. Tenders have been
floated for the second year's supplies.
The Technical Assistance Agreement has been signed and the four
consultants have finished the first phase of their assignments.
The overall progress of the project is considered satisfactory.
Credit No.1101 Hill Food Production Project; $8.0 million Credit of
April 6, 1981; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
July 15, 1987
The project was activated by the appointment of the project coor-
dinator in the summer of 1981, but HMG budget was not available until
November. Existing staff have received orientation and training in extension
methodology. Consultants for technical assistance have been appointed and
they have implemented the first phase of their program. The first shipment
of fertilizer under the project has been distributed and tenders are now out
for the second. Livestock and irrigation activities and construction of
agricultural service centers are lagging, but the project is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No.1191 Cottage and Small Industries Project; $6.5 million Credit
of March 9, 1982; Effective Date: July 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
HMG complied with all conditions, and the Credit was declared effec-
tive on July 9, 1982. Staffing and training for nearly all implementing
agencies have been completed. The advisor for the credit component has been
fielded, and other long term consultants, financed under the UNDP portion of
the project, are expected to arrive in the second quarter of FY83. Trained



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cottage and Small Industry officers of the three banks have been posted to
key branches, and commitments under the credit component have begun.
Credit No.1198 Second Education Project; $14.3 million Credit of April 7,
1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1988
The project, which will provide a new technician and trade training
institution in Pokhara in the Western Region of Nepal, was declared effective
on July 23, 1982 having fulfilled two conditions of credit effectiveness,
within 90 days of signing. These concerned the availability of the site to
commence construction and the signing of a technical assistance agreement.
The project unit (PIU) has been established and nearly all PIU staff have
been appointed.
Credit No.1260 Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; $9.2 million Credit
of July 9, 1982; Effective Date: September 30, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation started under an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The credit was declared effective on October 1,
1982. Contracts for geophysical consultancy and the seismic survey have been
awarded and field work is progressing.



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
6 months
(b) Project prepared by:
Government with the assistance of consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank Group:
September 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
February 1982
(e) Completion of negotiations:
December 3, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
March 31, 1983
II.   Special Implementation Action:
None
III. Special Conditions
Government to -
(a) strengthen the National Groundwater Resources Development
Board and include the Project Manager as an observer for all
matters relating to the project (para 32);
(b) agree not to supply water to farmers in completed tubewell
schemes until water users groups have been set up and are
ready to assume responsibility for water distribution
below the 4-5 ha outlet (para 34);



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) agree not to start the drilling of any of the 15 new tube-
wells until two-thirds of the beneficiaries have formally
agreed to form a water users group and to pay watter
charges (para 34);
(d)  establish a committee by March 1, 1983 to work out concrete
proposals for water charges by December 31, 1983 for consider-
ation by HMG and IDA (para 36); and
(e) introduce a new system of water charges for public tubewells
by March 31, 1984, which would be satisfactory to IDA
(para 36).



<I                                      I  
@ Rzz&zMa > -. 
Xf D/        (4                ) 0
____.,,''At +                                                             IT
'4E' 5 * \\\ + f'1 * SI}
_o O 'Z'' V--m.,2,>./~~~~~o ~
z   'S=t.  .1  L'ZS f;te+zA                                       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I
-~ ~     ~~~                                                     .  1,]      _
1'     14                                                       0                         -  Vu 
(O                                   I                 )0S 00                               rn  FXf
'_o 59 2 C ~~tfgl            .    .                                   -        :, ..  1  o  flr
.@ = > y '     >  g_    c .  + _iN>t S
C S       (,  nK  wy:  :r                                  _                 o
j      L                 C  t    + + F   \rll                                                 DD_ 
o_         \                                                          Z 1n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5 'Dm;






lORD 16432R
Nj  Ensee                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N EP AL
r I                                                                                                            J 2                                                          BHAIRAWA - LUMBINI
\ XI K  } -J                                                                                                     /                          X                             t\4I- GROUNDWATER  PROJECT
'7'I0'    /s  X    -j\;   80roX   -- -'  --  A             _ .g                    <                         ,         2't   zzno                      <,so. E m(STAGE II)
-                                                                         -V  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT   AREA
PROJECT-
O~~~~~~~~Dlsos                                                                                                                                                                        A  , kOO 1a                   rlc od
1 ~ ~ ~   ~             ~              ~             ~             ~            ~                         7                                    Osa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tge1 h rpler-etel- A-c
QMoinhto\  (   [    X                           XS                                    Anondbon ler  I                                 k'                                                            SIngePu  IT- Imp;cbemenrtio Arezoet
*~ <'?'V-~                            A<1     rk-~                                                       I /                                                                                                               (Gross Ae  2,340 H.)
f 0  (l   oChhpp ./I                         Molo - l                 \2 11             bSos,t-  33kV                                                                                           M P1eV
)           )                                                                                                                                                                                                       Proiens Ro/adsinahioO  jU/   -)J   0   t   //rS  / ;   afff oLdhP6o  (  PP -t
B-g0w   /                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING
0   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~.                                                                                                                         d , -  . 1
I   oaikl /          '                                                                                       I;        '                                                                                                        -     Rods  ca rolled,   ""'1
Modroh-s                                                      M-r  V lIIge T-6lr
Macbra                   -A       r                                (         s~~~~~~~~~A-dbe                                                                                              Too-  a-d  Vill.ge
\   ==aeaaoiyaens               r           /Wae  TiHo  Npth pn--tr
2                                                        K                                                            5' ^'b                                     Jeraohaor      Tukturpe 3orleWoleS  W                                             G-gi.g Sl,rso-a
Thokosop ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  f  I ~~~~~~~~~~~T--sneioni  Lion  33 kV
M.dh                         ~~~~prrth-ng   TI275
A                                                 ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ChrIhye  ( 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARW
".3'.                                                                                                                          1-7)                                           27-30 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jocmeg      1 2 3   
BI-IAIRAWA  Perseuni   .                   Nekoho ~              ~        ~      ~       C H   N 
b- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
~~~5'                     1                          I            N            D            I            A                                                                \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r    a  \  p~~~~~~~~ ND     
p3 20'/'  -, 7                  ,ra 553"253 3330



