OFFRUAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1316 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project, Stage II)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   /,, 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1316 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       L        ,          .     , 1983, between
KINGDOM   OF  NEPAL   (hereinafter   called  the   Borrower)   and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
July 9, 1976 the Association has extended a development credit
(No. 654 NEP) to the Borrower for the purpose of assisting in
financing a prior groundwater irrigation project in the Bhairawa-
Luubini area (hereinafter called the Stage I Project);
(C) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
April 18, 1973 the Association has extended a development credit
(No. 373 NEP) to the Borrower for the purpose of assisting in
financing an irrigation project in the Narayani zone of the
Birganj area, including a groundwater irrigation component
(hereinafter called the Birganj Project); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-2-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Office" means the office under the Department
of Irrigation, Hydrology    and Meteorology   of the Borrower's
Ministry of Water Resources, established pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of the Prior Development Credit Agreement;
(b) "NZIDB" means the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Board established pursuant to the Borrower's Narayani Zone
Irrigation Development Board (Establishment) Order 2029 (1973)
issued under the Borrower's Development Board Act of 1956, as
emended to the date of this Agreement;
(c) "DA"   means  the  Department of Agriculture    of   the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d) "GRDB" means the Groundwater Resources Development
Board  established   pursuant  to   the  Borrower's  Groundwater
Resources Development Board (Establishment) Order 2031 (1974), as
amended to date of this Agreement issued under the Borrower's
Development Board Act of 1956, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(e) "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
established pursuant to the Borrower's Agricultural Development
Bank Act, 1967, as amended to date of this Agreement;
(f) "AIC" means the Agricultural Inputs Corporation, estab-
lished under the Borrower's Corporation Act 1964, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
(g) "NEC" means the Nepal Electricity Corporation estab-
lished under the Borrower's Nepal Electricity Corporation Act,
1962, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h) "Prior Development Credit Agreement" means the develop-
ment credit agreement referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble
to this Agreement, as amended by exchange of a letter dated
December 27, 1977, between the Association and the Borrower;
(i) "Project Area" means (A) the following areas within the
Rupandehi District in the Western Terai: (1) the area (herein-
after called the Stage I Implementation Area) of about 7,600 ha
net which is part of a 20,000 ha gross area lying between the
Dano River in the west, the Rohini River in the east, the Churia


﻿-3-
(SIWALIK) Hills to the north, and the India/Nepal border to the
south, and (2) the area (hereinafter called the Stage I.I Imple-
mentation Area) of about 2,340 ha gross lying west of the Dano
River and with its southern boundary along the Bhairawa-Lumbini
highway; (B) for purposes of Part E of the Project, the entire
Rupandehi District; and (C) for purposes of Part G of the Proj-
ect, the entire region denominated the Terai; and
(j) "DIRM" means the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology
and Meteorology of the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if th1 Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project cand to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1988 or
such  later date as    the Association shall establish.      The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-4-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January I and July 1 in each year.
Section  2.08. The   Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1993, and ending
January 1, 2033, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out (i) Parts A,
B, C, D (i), D (ii) and E of the Project through the Project
Office, with the cooperation and support of DA for Part E of the
Project and of NEC for Part C of the Project; (ii) Part F of the
Project through NZIDB; (iii) Part G of the Project through GRDB;
and (iv) Part D (iii) of the Project through DIHM and/or DA, as


﻿- 5 -
appropriate, all with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices, and the Borrower shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Parts A, B, C, D (i), D (ii) and E of the Project
available to the Project Office, those allocated to Part F of the
Project to NZIDB, those allocated to Part G of the Project to
GRDB, and those allocated to Part D (iii) of the Project to DIHM
and/or DA, as the case may be.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the Project
Office with such powers, responsibilities, staffing and organiza-
tion as shall be required to enable it to carry out its responsi-
bilities for the execution of the Project and the coordination
thereof with the other agencies or entities of the Borrower
participating therein, under the direction of a Project manager
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such further action as
shall be required to ensure coordination among its agencies and
entities participating in the execution of the Project including
in particular the following:
(i) the Borrower shall entrust the GRDB with the
responsibility, inter alia, to approve appoint-
ments of key staff in the Project Office, Project
implementation programs and budgets, to make final
decisions on any policy questions or differences
among the Borrower's agencies or entities regard-
ing Project execution, and to review semiannually
the progress of the Project.   The Borrower shall
take the necessary action to: (A) include in the
membership of GRDB representatives of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Home, Ministry of Panchayat
and Local Development and NEC; and (B) to include
the Project manager, referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, as an observer in the GRDB for
all matters relating to the Project.
(ii) The Borrower shall maintain the project coordinat-
ing committee established pursuant to paragraph


﻿-6-
(c) (ii) of Section 3.01 of the Prior Development
Credit Agreement.   Such committee shall continue
to be chaired by the Chief District Officer,
Rupandehi District, and include as members repre-
sentatives of AIC, ADBN, NEC, and any other agri-
cultural agencies or entities of the Borrower
operating in or near the Project Area, as well as
the chairman of the District Panchayat, the Dis-
trict Agricultural Officer, the local Development
Officer, the Pradhan Panchas of the villages ser-
ved by the tubewells in the Project Area and the
Project manager referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section. Such committee shall meet regularly,
at least once every half year, to advise and
assist the Project manager in coordinating the
execution of the Project, siting tubewells and
forming water users groups.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) In order to assist (i) the Project Office in the
carrying out of Parts A, B, C, D (1), D (ii) and E of the Project
and the monitoring and evaluation thereof, (ii) DIHM and/or DA,
as the case may be, in the carrying out of Part D (iii) of the
Project, and (iii) GRDB in the carrying out of Part G of the
Project, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981; and
(b) make arrangements- on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association for making the services of the consultants
retained for purposes of the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
- Stage II - Project and financed under Credit No. 856 NEP
extended by the Association to the Borrower, available to assist
NZIDB in the carrying out of Part F of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any


﻿-7-
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, training programs, and construction,
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation annually its detailed plans for executing the Project in
its next fiscal year, including estimates of the financial
requirements of its agencies and entities responsible for
carrying out the Project. Without limitation to the generality
of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, on the
basis of such estimates, make adequate budgetary provision for
such agencies and entities to enable them to carry out the
Project.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(d) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (c)
of this Section, the Borrower shall, by November 1, 1983: (i)
establish within the Project Office, directly under the Project
manager, a special unit comprising an engineer, an agricultural
officer and a statistician which shall monitor and evaluate the


﻿-8-
execution, results and benefits of the Project; and (ii) inte-
grate 1n such special unit the existing groundwater monito:ing
unit, including the staff thereof responsible for assessing the
effect of pumping from the tubewells on the groundwater aquifers
in the Project Area during Project execution and thereafter.
(e) Upon the award by the Borrower or any of its agencies
or entities of any contract for goods, works or servic s to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(f) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be ne--essary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required fo: the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, at
its request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) In order to carry out Parts A (ii) and B
(iii) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that a water
users group, including as members all farmers who are to receive
water from a tubewell, shall be organized and duly constituted in
respect of each tubewell included in the Project. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree: (i) no tubewell shall be drilled
under Part B of the Project, until farmers holding at least two
thirds of the irrigable land within the area to be served by such
well shall have agreed to join such a group and to pay water
charges and assist in operating and maintaining the irrigation
and drainage works in such area; and (ii) no water shall be
supplied from any tubewell included in the Project, until the


﻿-9-
farmers in the area to be served by such well shall have duly
constituted such a group and the necessary arrangements for the
distribution of irrigation water below the 4-5 ha outlet, includ-
ing the construction of the field channels referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section, shall have been made.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such action as may be
necessary or useful to cause farmers in the Stage I Implemen-
tation Area and Stage II Implementation Area to carry out the
construction of field channels from the 4-5 ha outlets on the
water distribution canals and pipes under Parts A (i) and B (ii)
of the Project to their fields as well as field drains.
(c) If the field channels and drains referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section shall not be constructed within a rea-
sonable period after water becomes available for irrigation of
any part of the Stage I Implementation Area or of the Stage II
Implementation Area, the Borrower, under Parts A (iii) or B (iv)
of the Project, as the case may be, shall carry out such works
through the Project Office.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by November 1, 1983, fur-
nish to the Association for review and comment a draft of the
operation and maintenance manuals to be prepared under Part D (i)
of the Project and shall thereafter, taking into account Asso-
ciation's comments, if any, introduce and apply such manuals by
November 1, 1984.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause NEC:
(a) upon completion of any of the power supply facilities
to be constructed under Part C of the Project to inspect and test
such facilities and within two months after completion of the
water distribution system for any tubewell included in the Pro-
ject, to provide power for such tubewell;. and
(b) to operate the 33 kilovolt transmission line from the
Gandak West hydropower station to the transformer substation in
the Project Area as a dedicated feeder line for purposes of
providing the power required for the operation of the tubewells
included in the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project Office,
GRDB and NZIDB:
(a) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their respective operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project (the Project Accounts), including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure;
(b) to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure and to enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to examine such records;
(c) to    have  the   Project  Accounts   (balance   sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
applicable), for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing  principles   consistently   applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(d) to furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (i) certified statements of the Project Accounts
for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors: (A)
on the separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it and withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(e) to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning   the  Project   Accounts   and   said   records  and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure
that the tubewell pumps, irrigation and drainage systems and the
other works and facilities included in the Project as well as the
equipment required for the operation thereof shall at all times
be operated and maintained and, promptly as needed, repaired or
replaced, all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
agricultural and financial practices; and (ii) provide or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the staff and funds required
for this purpose.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause AIC at all times,
to make available adequate supplies of seeds, fertilizer and
other agricultural inputs for the farmers in the Project Area.
(b) The Borrower shall make arrangements on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association for ADBN to provide,
each year, seasonal agricultural credit to farmers in the Project
Area at an adequate level permitting such farmers to make optimal
use of the irrigation water from the tubewells under the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish, by March 1, 1983, a technical committee
charged with the preparation of proposals for a new system of
water charges for public tubewell irrigation and shall furnish
such proposals to the Association for its review and comments not
later than December 31, 1983;
(b) introduce, by March 31, 1984, and thereafter apply, a
new system of water charges satisfactory to the Association per-
mitting adequate cost recovery for public tubewell irrigation;
(c) until the introduction of such new system, levy and
collect water charges for water supplied from the tubewells
included in the Project at least at the rates in effect as of
December 1, 1982 for public irrigation systems; and
(d) at least every three years following the introduction
of the system of water charges referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, review the adequacy of such charges and the
procedures for their collection in consultation with the
Association and make such changes therein as may be required to
ensure continued adequate cost recovery for public tubewell
irrigation.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) channel or cause to be channeled through the Project
manager all budget requests and releases for the Agricultural
Division established within the Project Office; and
(b) make or cause to be made such Agricultural Division
accountable to the Project manager for its administrative and
financial matters.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the order referred
to in Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement shall have been amended,
suspended, repealed or waived in such a way as to affect
materially and adversely the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to Prior Development Credit Agreement
Section 6.01. The Prior Development Credit Agreement is
amended as follows, namely, Sections 3.01 (c), 3.06 (c), and 4.02
(a) and (b) of the Prior Development Credit Agreement are
superseded by Sections 3.02 (b), 3.07 (c), and 4.04, respectively
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date             /   /           is hereby
specified for the purposes o      Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
Section 7.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.05 (d), 3.09 (b), 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 (b) of this Agreement and
the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                      Telex:
ARTHA                              2499 NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Materials, equip-                           100% of foreign
ment, agricultural                         expenditures,
inputs, vehicles                           100% of local
and spare parts                            expenditures
ex-factory,
and 75% of
other local
expenditures
(a) for Part F of          285,000
the Project
(b) for other Parts      3,960,000
of the Project
(2) Civil works under                          100% of foreign
contracts                                  expenditures
and 75% of
local expendi-
tures
(a) for Part F of          285,000
the Project
(b) for other Parts      3,580,000
of the Project
(3) Civil works by                             40%
force account
(a) under Part F of         95,000
the Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) under other Parts         190,000
of the Project
(4) Staff salaries,                             50%
allowances, local
training and other
operating costs
(except those for
civil works under
Category (3) and
electricity charges)
(a) for Part F                190,000
of the Project
(b) for other Parts         1,230,000
of the Project
(5) Consultants' services                      100%
and expenditures
for overseas training
(a) for Part D (iii)          950,000
of the Project
(b) for Parts A, B,         3,300,000
C, D (i), D (ii)
and E of the
Project
(c) for Part G of             380,000
the Project
(6) Unallocated                    655,000
TOTAL            15,100,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 1,410,000, may be made on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category or Sub-
category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of
all expenditures in that Category or Sub-category, the Associa-
tion may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory or Sub-category, to the extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category or Sub-category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory or Sub-category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.


﻿- 18 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed mainly to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of the tubewells included under the Stage I
Project, to develop and introduce improved tubewell irrigation
systems on a pilot basis in the Stage II Implementation Area
adjoining the Stage I Implementation Area, to organize the
participation of farmers in the Project Area in the irrigation
systems included in the Project, to ensure the provision of
adequate agricultural inputs and extension services to such
farmers, and to strengthen the Borrower's institutions respon-
sible for the planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of tubewell irrigation systems.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Completion and Operation and Maintenance of Tubewell
Systems in the Stage I Implementation Area
(i)  Completion of (a) the installation of about 64 tube-
wells included in the Stage I Implementation Area, (b)
the construction of water distribution canals totaling
about 280 km required for such tubewells (including
lining of about 10 km of distribution canals) and
related drainage networks, (c) the construction of
gravel roads totaling about 96 km to provide access to
such tubewells and to connect the major villages in the
area served by such tubewells, and (d) other related
facilities included under the Stage I Project, such as
offices and staff housing.
(ii) Completion of the formation of water users groups for
-     each tubewell system included in the Stage I Project
for the purpose of ensuring proper operation and
maintenance thereof.
(iii) Construction of field channels totaling about 500 km in
the areas served by the tubewells included in the Stage
I Project to convey irrigation water from the 5 ha
outlets to farmers' fields.
(iv) Initial operation and maintenance of the tubewells
included in the Stage I Project, including provision to


﻿- 20 -
the Project Office of additional staff, vehicles,
equipment and tools required for this purpose and
improvement of its workshop management.
Part B:   Additional, Pilot Tubewell Systems
(i) Installation and initial operation and maintenance of
about 15 additional tubewells with an improved design
in the Stage II Implementation Area, each reaching a
depth of about 200 m, being equipped with an auto-
matically controlled, submersible electric pump which
is capable of discharging about 300 cubic meters per
hour, and housed in a brick building.
(ii) Construction of water distribution systems, consisting
of buried polyvinyl-chloride pipes and drainage net-
works (including improvement of the drainage capacity
of about 28 km of natural streams), for each of the
tubewells under Part B (i) of the Project each of which
is to serve a net irrigated area of about 120 ha.
(iii) Formation of water users groups for each tubewell sys-
tem under Part B (i) of the Project for the purpose of
ensuring proper operation and maintenance thereof.
(iv) Construction of field channels totaling about 100 km in
the area served by the tubewells under Part B (i) of
the Project to convey irrigation water from the 4 ha
outlets to farmers' fields.
(v) Construction of about 25 km of gravel roads to provide
access to the tubewells under Part B (i) of the Project
and to connect the major villages in the Stage II
Implementation Area.
(vi) Initial operation and maintenance of the tubewells in-
cluded in the Stage II Implementation Area, including
provision to the Project Office of staff, vehicles,
equipment and tools required for this purpose.
Part C:   Power Transmission Facilities
(i) Completion of the construction of about 73 km of 11
kilovolt transmission lines, with stepdown transformers
to 0.4 kilovolts, to deliver power from the substation


﻿- 21 -
in the Project Area to the tubewells included in the
Stage I Implementation Area.
(ii) Construction of about 35 km of 33 kilovolt transmission
lines, with stepdown transformers to 0.4 kilovolts, to
deliver power from said -substation to the tubewells
under Part B of the Project.
Part D:   Technical Support and Training
(i) Preparation of operation and maintenance manuals for
the tubewell systems under Parts A and B, respectively,
of the Project.
(ii) On-the-job training of Project Office staff in the
planning, design, operation and maintenance of tubewell
systems and through special courses and field excur-
sions to similar tubewell systems.
(iii) Strengthening of the Borrower's agencies and institu-
tions responsible for the carrying out of on-going
irrigation projects financially assisted by the Asso-
ciation, through the provision of technical assistance.
Part E:   Agricultural Extension and Training
Strengthening of the training and visit system of agricul-
tural  extension  in   the  Rupandehi  District,   including  in
particular:
(i) an increase in agricultural extension staff in the area
served by the tubewells included in the Project to a
level of one junior technician for approximately each
3,600 ha, one junior technical assistant for approxi-
mately each 360 ha and one Panchayat level agricultural
assistant for each tubewell command of about 120 ha;
(ii) training programs for agricultural extension staff;
(iii) applied and adaptive research and field demonstrations
to indicate optimal cropping in the Project Area;
(iv) construction of additional housing for agricultural
extension staff and training facilities for the re-
gional training center to be located at the Bhairawa
Research Station;


﻿- 22 -
(v) provision of extension materials, equipment and vehi-
cles for the agricultural (   -ision staff; and
(vi) provision   of agricultural inputs, including    seeds,
fertilizer and pesticides to responsive farmers for the
growing of major crops in about 150 ha.
Part F:   Improvement and Repairs of Birganj Tubewells
Repair, improvement and operation and maintenance of about
28 tubewell irrigation systems and conversion of an observation
well into a production well in the area covered by Part B of the
Birganj Project, including replacement of inadequate pumps and
other equipment, provision of spare parts, and supply of agricul-
tural support services for the farmers served by such tubewells.
Part G:
Study to determine the most suitable strategies for
groundwater development for irrigation in the Terai.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1987.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D and F hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent feasible, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-24-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Nepal may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nepal
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Nepal equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price, of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from groip C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 25 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for.
works included under Sub-category (2) (b) of the table set forth
in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be
procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required
to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular
firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic coatractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for works estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $50,000 each and for the purchase of construction
materials and urgently required spare parts, may be procured on


﻿- 26 -
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accor-
dance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of the said consul-
tants and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.


﻿- 27 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the   Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the   Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determinatiou.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Works for the drilling, development and testing of tubewells
and for the repair and improvement of tubewells under Part F of
the Project may be carried out on force account by the Project
Office or NZIDB, as the case may be.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the             day of,
19&3.
FOR SECRETARY


