Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11718
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
DIDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALHoLDERS Vii PROJECT
(LOAN 2232-IND)
Match    1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Countmy Department m
Fat Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Ths document has a retIcted dlstrbtion m_ my be 1sd by Ee         y In he performance of
their oliciil dutles. lb contents m   m  o wi    dose       ot World Bak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency. Rupiah
Rate of Exchange
Appraisal Year                                 US$1.00 a Rp 660
Nov.16, 1978 - Mar30, 1983                     USS1.00 - Rp 625-900
Mar.13,1983 - Sep.11,1986                      USS1.00 - Rp 909-1,100
Sep.1Z1986 - Dec.31, 1990                      USS1.00 - Rp 1,640-1,860
Project Completion Report                      US$1.00 m Rp 2,050
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
GOL Aprfl 1- March 31
MP: January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BRI            Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CDC     -      Commonwealth Devebpment Corporati
DOE    -       Directorate Geneal of Esta   Department of Aricultre
ERR -          Economic Rate of Return
FEB      -     Fresh Fruit Buches
GBP      -     Pound Strling
GOI    -       Gon   of           esia
NS       -     Foregn-asited Nucleus Estates and Snaiholdl  Proect
PBSN    -      Domestic Prvate Estates Cop Enteprises
PIR      -     WhoA   GO-finaned Nuclu Estates and Smaliholden Project
PMU    -       Proct M aement Unit
FTP      -     Gt d  este crops enteprises with Lmited Liability
RSI      -     Resident Staff in Indonesia
TKPIR   -      Team Khwu   - Spcial Team for Nuceu Estate and Smallholder
Projects, Directorate General of Estate



FOR OFICIAL USE ONL
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlce of Dir.cor-Gon.rai
Operaona Eviuation
March 12, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VII Project (Ln. 2232-IND)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Indonesia -
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VII Project (Loan'2232-ND)" prepared by the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office, with Part II contnbuted by the Borrower. The report is comprehensive and
of high quality. It recognizes the shortcomings of Bank preappraisal and appraisal performance as
well as the institutional constraints which impeded realization of project benefits.
The project aimed to establish 50,200 ha of public sector nucleus estate and
smallholder tree crops, processing facilities and village infrastructure at three sites. Only 86 percent
of the target was achieved in spite of a two and a half year extension to the loan closing date. A high
proportion of the plantings were of poor quality. Yields are much below appraisal expectations.
Overall, the outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory, sustainability as uncertain (especially
the rubber component) and institutional development as partial.
This is the seventh and last project in a line of lending which began in 1977. The
preceding six projects have been audited by OED. The first four had satisfactory outcomes, while
the last three, which were larger and more complex, were unsatisfactory reflecting a decline in
performance of the agencies responsible for their implementation combined with a weakening of
intemational commodity prices. In 1989 the Board approved a Tree Crop Processing Project which
complements the earlier projects by improving the processing and marketing efficiency of several of
the nuclear estates.
A performance audit is not planned. However, an impact evaluation for the entire
line of lending will be considered in a year or two.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
(LOAN 2232-IND)
TABLEoF CoNTNT
Page No.
Preface        ...................................                            i
Evaluation Summary  ..............................                         iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ..........................                    I
Background ............................                        1
Project Objectives and Description ....       ..........       2
Project Timetable  ........................                    3
Project Design and Organization ...............                3
Project Implementation .....................                   4
Project Results ..........................                     6
Project Impact and Lessons Learned ....        .........      11
Project Sustainability  ......................                14
Project Relationships ......................                  14
Borrower Performance .....................                    14
Bank Performance ........................                     15
Technical Assistance  ......................                  16
Project Documentation and Data ...............                16
Summary of Lessons Learned .................                  16
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General Assessment .......................                    18
Specific Assessment .......................                   21
Bank's and Borrower's Performance ....         .........      24
Lessons Learned .........................                     25
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans ................                 26
Table 2:  Project Timetable  .................                27
Table 3:  Loan Disbursement ................                  28
Table 4:  Project Implementation ....         ..........      29
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing ....       .......      30
Table 6:  Project Results ...................                 31
Table 7:  Status of Loan Covenants  ....         ........     32
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources ....          ..........      33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Appendix    Table 1: Phasing of Tree Crop Development .... ...           34
Table 2: Yield Profile - Oil Palm  ....    ..........      35
Table 3: Yield Profile - Rubber .....      ..........      36
Table 4: Technical Assistance .....       ...........      37
Table 5: Economic Price Projections -
Oil Palm  ......        .................         44
Table 6: Economic Price Projections -
Rubber .......         .................         45
Table 7: Detailed Re-estimated ERRs  ....      .......     46
MAPS
IBRD No. 24053
IBRD No. 24054
IBRD No. 24055



PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
(LOAN 2232-IND)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VII Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2232-IND
in the amount of US$154.6 million was approved on January 25, 1983. The Loan
become effective on July 13, 1983. The original Loan Closing Date was June 30,
1989. As a result of slow project implementation, the Loan was closed on December
31, 1991, two and a half years behind schedule. Due to scaling down of original
project targets and loan savings from devaluations, only US$79.9 million (52 percent)
of the Bank Loan was utilized. A total of US$58.6 million was canceled in three
amounts during the period of pro,e,ct implementation and an additional US$16.1 million
of the Loan amount was canceled at the time of the last disbursement on May 14, 1992.
The Project was co-financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
with a loan of 19.0 million Pounds Sterling (GBP) of which GBP 8.7 million has been
disbursed. CDC has extended the period of its loan to the end of 1993 to allow
fiancing of some remaining project activities and it is anticipated that the balance of
GBP 10.3 million will be disbursed by that time.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture Technical and Country
Operations, Department 3, Divisions of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). Preparation
of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report and the two later
subsidiary reports for two of the three project locations, the Loan Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda, discussions with the Borrower and the findings of a Bank mission in June
1992 to project sites.



I



- iii -
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VIa PROJECT
(LOAN 2232-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) VII Project was the seventh
of a series of Bank-financed projects supporting the Government of Indonesia's (GO0s)
nucleus estates and smallholders tree crop development progra.n It was cofinanced by
the Comnonwealth Development Corporation. The objectives of this program were to
raise incomes of rural poor through creating productive employmnent, increase domestic
food supply to meet rising demand, expand agricultural exports from smallholder tree
crops, and ensure the productive and sustainable use of the country's natural resources.
Project objectives were: (a) to use the management and technical expertise of state
owned estate enterprises (PTPs) to develop smallholder rubber and oil palm for the
benefit of 18,850 poor rural families through the establishment of 37,700 ha of tree
crops (oil palm and rubber) and 8,925 ha of food crops; (b) establish 12,500 ha of oil
palim and rubber as TP1 nucleus estates in support of the smallholder program; (c)
provide factory facilities for the processing of palm oil and rubber for export, including
oil bulking and wharf facilities; and (d) promote institutional strengthening of the estate
and smallholder tree crop sectors through technical assistance. The Project was
implemented as three subprojects at sites in East and West Kalimantan and South
Sulawesi.
Implementation Experience
2.         Project implementation was slower and less satisfactory than anticipated
at appraisal due to: (a) inadequate PTP technical support and management experience;
(b) untimely scheduling of field works; (c) weak fnancial condition of the PTPs and
slow releases of Government budget funds; (d) delayed identification and transfer of
settler families by provincial authorities so creating lbor shortages at project sites; (e)
delayed allocation of suitable lands for agricultural development; (f) a progran change
from rubber to oil palm for smallholders at one site; (g) problems of procuring
agricultural inputs and in awarding construction contracts for processing facilities; and
(h) inadequate coordination among project agencies at government and provincial levels.



- iv -
3.         Despite these difficulties, most project activities were completed.  In
agricultural development, physical targets were substantially achieved, averaging
86 percent of the total original program, 83 percent for smallholder areas and
97 percent for nucleus estates. Due to crop changes, the area of oil palm development
soared to 140 percent of target estimates but this was largely counterbalanced by only
a 50 percent achievement with rubber. Planned palm oil mills and oil bulking
installations were installed but the proposed rubber factories were not constructed due
to lack of interest by the PTPs.
4.         Following the 1985 reformulation of one subproject, several Loan
Amendments and two Loan Extensions, the Bank Loan was closed two and a half years
after the original date. With some scaling down of original project targets and loan
savings from devaluation, project costs and loan utilization were significantly lower than
originally estimated. Thus total project costs of US$207.1 million were 56 percent of
the appraisal figure. Only US$79.9 million or 52 percent of the original loan amount
of US$154.6 million was disbursed.  Cancellations totalled US$58.7 million.
Utilization of the CDC loan has also been much lower than anticipated. The CDC loan
has been extended to the end of 1993 to provide financing for uncompleted agricultural
development.
Results
5.         Project physical targets were substantially achieved but over a considerably
longer period than planned. Quality of agricultural implementation was variable, from
generally satisfactory for oil palm to unsatisfactory for rubber. The choice of rubber,
and in particular the specific rubber clone, for the West Kalimantan site was
inappropriate due to its high susceptibility to endemic leaf disease promoted by
prevalent high rainfall. Supporting road and processing infrastructure for the oil palm
areas are mostly in place but lacking in the rubber areas. The food crop program, other
than for house gardens, was not implemented due to lack of farmer interest in the face
of difficult agroclimatic conditions for short-term cash crops, lack of production
facilities and difficulties of marketing. Tree crop yields are below appraisal estimates,
particularly in the case of rubber, due to unrealistically optimistic projections and where
performance has been seriously impaired by low stand uniformity and very poor quality
of tapping including excessive bark wounding and bark consumption. Planted areas
provide for the settlement of about 15,500 families but conversion of lands with mature
crops to smallholder title is far behind schedule due to slow and complex titling
procedures. Limited data indicate that farmer incomes from mature oil palm are
considerably above their pre-project earnings and should continue favorably. The re-
estimated ERR for the Project as a whole is 9.1 percent. Component ERR re-estimates
by project site, crop and smallholder/nucleus estate segment vary from 1.5 percent to



- v -
32.3 percent. The latter high re-estimated ERR is a reflection of low nonagricultural
expenditures as reported by GOI. Lower than appraisal re-estimates are due to
implementation delays, lower yield expectations and decline in world prices for rubber
and palm oil.
6.         Similar to the earlier Bank-financed NES projects, this Project is
environmentally sound. Mature tree crops protect soils from erosion while the soils
under young tree crops are well protected with planted legume and natural covers.
Only some food crop areas which have reverted to nutrient-depleting cogon grass give
rise to some concern. Adequate effluent control systems are in place at palm oil mills.
Sustainability
7.         The Project demonstrates the sustainability of the NES type of development
for smallholders. For beneficiaries growing oil palm, project benefits are sustainable,
provided the farmers continue to work together for group benefits, have the support of
an effective extension service and commodity prices are favorable. Opportunities for
profit should sustain the PTP's role in oil palm processing. Prospects of sustainability
for rubber smallholders, however, are not good because of the generally poor condition
of their trees, uneven and very incomplete stands, and low standards of tapping, the
latter in particular which will seriously compromise long-term yield potential.
Findings and Lessons
8.         Despite the delays and problems of project implementation and lower
standards of crop development than envisaged, the Project has had significant positive
impacts. Several thousands of people previously living in poverty have been allocated
land, provided with new housing and village amenities and, especially for the oil palm
growers, a promising economic base for a better standard of living. The institutional
arrangements for NES type development, however, militated against achieving good
field standards for the high levels of investment incurred. Experience with the NES VII
Project confirms findings of earlier nucleus estate and smallholder projects that the use
of PTPs as a source of technical and managerial expertise to promote smallholder tree
crop development has not been very successful. Their participation as development
agents conflicted with their primary interests in commercial agriculture and holds little
prospect for profit other than in crop processing, while at the same time exposing them
to a host of operational problems.
9.         Among the lessons emerging from the Project are: (a) the institutional role
and responsibilities of the PTPs in tree crop development for smallholders need to be
more precisely defined, given a stronger commercial orientation and with contracts
providing for rewards and penalties according to performance standards; (b) to
counteract the risks of smallholders inadequately managing their crops in the critical



- vi -
early years of production, PTP should continue to provide crop maintenance for the
first years beyond the commencement of production, for the benefit of long-term crop
performance and smallholder incomes; (c) smallholders with mature crop need the
support of an effective extension service to assist them in sustaining crop productivity;
(d) recovery of agricultural development credit from smallholder beneficiaries,
particularly in the case of rubber which is easily sold to outside traders to avoid loan
collection mechanisms, would be better linked to crop management contracts or land
title liens; (e) food crop components need detailed preparation at appraisal to understand
the attitudes and capabilities of settlers to ancillary crop production; (f) timely funding
arrangements are essential for the satisfactory execution of tree crop development
programs; (g) coordination between project agencies and ministries is vital for
successful project implementation; and (h) project preparation issues need to be fully
addressed at appraisal.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
(LOAN 2232-IND)
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW AND BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name             Nucleus Estates and Smallholders V1I Project (NES VII)
Loan Number    2232-IND
RVP Unit         East Asia and Pacific
Country         Indonesia
Sector        :  Agriculture
Sub-sector       Tree Crops
2. Background
2.1         At the time of appraisal in 1983, tree crops occupied about 45 percent
of total cropped land and generated about 43 percent of total non-petroleum oil export
revenue. Smallholders cultivated 80 percent of the rubber areas while most of the oil
palm was grown in estates. Growth of smallholder production was slow due to many
factors including failure to replant with higher yielding varieties. The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) recognized the importance of tree crop development in the national
economy and embarked on an accelerated tree crop development program. Among the
implementation approaches used to achieve their objectives was the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders program in which state owned estate enterprises (PTPs), acting as
development nuclei, would be funded to develop land with tree crops for smallholders
or settlers, maintaining the crop to maturity and providing agricultural inputs, extension
services and processing facilities. The program consisted of two groups of projects, the
Bank-financed NES program and the wholly-GOI funded (PIR) program. Their
objectives were to: (a) raise incomes of rural poor by creating productive employment;
(b) increase domestic food supply to meet rising demand; (c) expand agricultural
exports from smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive and sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
2.2         The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VII Project (NES VII) was the
seventh of a series of Bank financed projects (Table 1) supporting GOI's policy of
exploiting and upgrading the technical and managerial expertise of the PTPs to promote
and guide smallholder development. It also continued the broader focus of earlier
projects in supporting the smallholder tree crop sector through strengthening the
operational capacities of the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) and the estate sector



-2-
advisory unit of the Ministry of Agriculture (SBPN). The Bank Loan in support of this
Project was approved on January 25, 1983.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Objectives. The Project would continue support for GOI's program of
developing an efficient smailholder sector in tree crop production. In this endeavor,
PTP management and technical expertise would be employed to establish tree crop areas
around nucleus estates for allocation with food crop lots, to poor families to improve
their livelihood. It would also provide for the processing of rubber and palm oil for
export and import substitution of edible oils, and further support the strengthening of
development institutions of the smallholder tree crop sector.
3.2        Description. The Project would be implemented over a period of six years
(1983-1988) in Pasir (East Kalimantan), Sambas (West Kalimantan) and Luwu (South
Sulawesi) and would involve four PTPs: VI, XII and VII/XXVIII respectively. Project
components and physical targets at appraisal were as follows:
(a)  Smallholder Development: Planting 37,700 ha of tree crops consisting
of 23,700 ha of rubber and 14,000 ha of oil palm; the development of
8,925 ha of food crops, construction of access and agricultural roads, and
establishment of 34 villages including houses and social infrastructure
(schools, health centers, water supply etc.) for 18,850 smallholder
families;
(b)  Nudeus Estate Development: Planting of 5,500 ha of rubber and 7,000
ha of oil palm; construction of two rubber factories and two oil palm mills
for processing project production, and two bulking facilities with wharf for
the shipment of palm oil from the East Kalimantan and South Sulawesi
sites;
(c)  Technical Assistance and Program Support: Provision of 432 staff
months of foreign and local consultants for institutional strengthening of
SBPN, DGE and the Team Khusus (TKPIR) unit of the latter, in their
planning, coordinating, and monitoring of smallholder and PTP
development programs; technical assistance to PITPs for upgrading their
expertise in crop production and processing technology, capabilities in
commodity marketing, and management of data information systems;
support for DGE's pilot program of improving the marketing of
smallholders rubber through cooperative development and raising quality
of production; and allocating start-up funds for future Bank-assisted tree
crop projects.



-3 -
3.3       Financing. External financing for the Project was provided by the Bank
with Loan No. 2232-IND in the amount of US$154.6 million, with co-financing by the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) in the amount of 19.0 million pounds
sterling (GBP). The Bank and CDC would jointly finance the Pasir and Sambas
components, 79 percent and 15 percent of foreign exchange costs respectively, while
the Bank would solely finance the Luwu and program support components. Funding
for nucleus estate development would be initially from GOI and Bank Indonesia in
quarterly tranches with later reimbursement from the Bank, and for smallholder
development from GOI budget and external sources channelled through Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI). GOT would secure suppliers' credit to assist financing of processing
plants. GOI funds would carry interest rates of 10.5 percent per annum on loans to
smallholders and 13.5 percent per annum on funds on-lent to PTPs for nucleus estate
development.
4. Project Timetable
4.1        Table 2 details the project timetable from identification to completion.
Consultant preparation reports were prepared for the three project sites. The Project
was approved for a Bank loan based on the January 1983 appraisal of the Pasir
component only as the scope of the other two components was tentative. Deferring
appraisals at Luwu and Sambas reflected Bank objectives of transferring their NES
program support to sector lending and strengthening the developmental capacities of
DGE and TKPIR by making them responsible for the two appraisals which were to be
completed by mid-1983. However, these appraisals were seriously delayed by design
issues, including land availability, management capabilities and financial status of the
PTPs and transport and export facilities for palm oil and arrangements for smallholder
credit recovery, most of which had surfaced during preparation. TKPIR needed
substantial technical support to complete them and consultants were appointed to assist
at Sambas while the Bank provided major appraisal inputs for the Luwu component.
The two supplementary staff appraisal reports were completed in late 1985. In May
1986 the Bank found it necessary to re-appraise the Pasir component. With two
extensions, the Bank Loan was closed in December 1991, two and a half years after the
original Loan Closing Date while the CDC loan is extended to December 31, 1993 to
provide financing for uncompleted development at both Pasir and Sarnbas.
S. Project Design and Organization
5.1       The technical, organizational and financial designs of the Project followed
those of the preceding six NES projects. During project preparation, the Bank recorded
its experiences with the NES approach as good and relatively problem-free. In
conjunction with the PTPs' role in land development, the Project involved settling poor
families, local and transmigrant, at an early stage of crop immaturity to familiarize
them with the requirements of crop establishment and maintenance and introduce them



-4-
to the elements of credit responsibilities. Each family would be allocated 2.0 ha of tree
crops and a house on a garden lot of 0.25 ha. Additionally, those in Pasir and Sambas
would receive a food crop lot of 0.75 ha for production of marketable cash crops.
Most of the potential project families in Luwu already owned about 0.75 ha of rice
paddy. Provincial governments would provide the smallholders with food crop
extension and social services, and coordinate with the PTPs in constructing health and
educational facilities. BRI would channel GOI funds for the smallholder credit
component and be responsible, on behalf of GOI, for recovery of credit from the
smallholders. The smallholders would agree to sell their output to the PTPs who would
deduct credit repayments. Implementation of the Project would be the responsibility
of DGE with TKPIR overseeing overall project administration, coordination,
monitoring, procurement, and technical support.
6. Project Implementation
6.1       General. Implementation of most components was slow, especially of crop
development (Appendix, Table 1). Problems included site remoteness and difficulties
of access, timely land acquisition, PTP management arrangements and field technology,
intake of settlers, finance, administration and commitment of project agencies. Many
of the underlying issues were identified during preparation but not adequately addressed
at appraisal. Successive Bank supervisions and project agencies brought them into
focus as they sought ways to improve project performance. Implementation of
agricultural works improved markedly in later years with growing PTP experience and
effort.
(a)  Land suitability and availability: implementation was delayed at all three
sites while replacement areas were arranged for steep slopes. At Pasir,
during implementation, hilly areas too steep for oil palm were replaced
with the more distant Kerta Jaya blocks; at Luwu, some 400 ha of steep
lands unsuitable for oil palm were cleared and then abandoned; at Sambas,
a number of steep, rocky or swampy areas were taken out of development
after planting due to poor crop growth. The need for these changes was
the result of inadequate reconnaissance before land clearing and the
strongly target-driven focus of the PTP planting programs.  Land
availability issues surfaced in Sambas when provincial authorities changed
land allocations.
(b)  Quality of agricultural works: poor agricultural implementation at all
sites was largely due to inadequate PTP technical support and management
experience. Often nursery planting materials, especially rubber, were
poorly grown, with fields planted too close to the dry season leading to
high field establishment losses and costly resupply programs (supplies at
Sambas totaled more than 100 percent of original plantings), field
maintenance was inadequate and manuring untimely because of late



releases of budget funds. The ravages of wild pig and deer caused heavy
planting losses in some areas. PTP management was unsatisfactory to
varying degrees at all sites due to inexperience with local conditions, some
lack of commitment to the NES program, and for PTP VI, trying to
manage from company headquarters in Sumatra. At Luwu, the Bank had
recommended from the outset that PTP XXVIII be replaced by PTP VII
because of its financial problems and lack of previous experience with oil
palm. However, it was agreed to continue joint management in line with
GOI's aim to strengthen weak PTPs through the Project. This led to many
difficulties over division of responsibilities and slowing of implementation
up to the time that PTP VII was phased out in 1987 after financial and
managerial issues at PTP XXVIII had been addressed. From that time,
PTP XXVIII management performed well. Recognizing the need to
improve the quality of smallholder plantings in Bank-assisted NES
projects, GOI, in 1987, embarked on an upgrading program of compacting
and replanting. The scope and succesp of this however, was limited by
funding constraints and technical problems of late rehabilitation.
Consequently, GOI adjusted smallholder loan amounts downwards in
relation to tree densities in an effort to ensure reasonable smallholders'
income after debt service.
(c)  Settler Intake: in many areas of the Project, the slow intake of settlers
strained the ability of the PTPs to carry out timely and efficient field work,
including harvesting, due to shortages of labor. Failure of provincial
administrations to meet scheduled targets of family arrivals also disrupted
the settler housing program, creating a problem  for the PTPs of
maintaining in good repair, the many houses vacant over long periods.
(d)  Processing facilities: the construction of palm oil mills and port bulking
installations at Luwu and Pasir fell several years behind schedule because
of problems of site selection, land acquisition and procurement, and
resulted in losses of early crop. At Luwu, the construction of a
temporary 15 ton/hour mini-mill, despite low operational efficiency (oil
extraction rates of 9 to 14 percent), enabled farmers and PTP to derive
crop income until the new mill was ready.
(e)  Access roads:  access to project areas was difficult and the lack of
serviceable roads adversely affected the timing and quality of land
development and effectiveness of management, as for example in the
northern hilly areas of Pasir in the earlier years of the Project, and in all
areas up to the present time at Sambas. The main factors contributing to
unsatisfactory road implementation were unrealistically low GOI-approved
unit costs of construction and budget allocations. At Luwu and partly at
Pasir, existing highways through project areas facilitated access to
development sites.



-6 -
(f)   FTP finances: these were generally weak making it difficult for interim
financing of project development works from PTP resources. Hence
works were not always carried out in a timely manner. As in earlier
projects, GOI relied on PTPs to prefinance expenditures as an alternative
to addressing shortcomings in the operation of its budget system.
(g)  Government finaning: uncertainties in the amounts of GOI funds, their
late approvals and slow releases added to the difficulties of financing
project works. These effects adversely impacted agricultural development
and especially the works of fertilizing and weed control, in which
timeliness is the essence of success. Absence of legal documentation in
support of land transfers to the Project caused initial funding problems at
Pasir.
(h)  Procurement issues slowed the supply of agricultural inputs and
construction of processing facilities. The Bank agreed to the supplying of
fertilizers through the PUSRI (the State fertilizer company) for cost-
effectiveness; these arrangements worked well except for budget delays.
Bank difficulties with PTP procurement procedures delayed installation of
both oil palm mills and led to Bank withdrawal from the financing of the
Sambas rubber factory.
(i)   Disbursement problems surfaced early. These involved mechanisms of
Bank loan financing of foreign procurement and local expenditures (actual
PTP expenditures were agreed rather than the flow of Ministry of Finance
funds to the PTPs), financing eligibilities of some infrastructure works, the
scope of CDC financing and the Bank's financing percentages in some
categories.
6.2        Loan Agreement Amendments. The Loan Agreement was amended
several times to allow changes in project description, development targets for
smallholders, disbursement arrangements, and cancellation of loan funds (Table 5).
The 1986 reformulation of the Pasir component, necessitated by PTP and smallholder
dissatisfaction and poor experience with rubber and the crop mix of the component,
resulted in transferring all existing rubber to the nucleus estate, planting oil palm only
for the smallholders and reducing the size of the smallholder component by 2,700 ha
and 1,350 families.
7. Project Results
7.1        The Project physical targets were substantially achieved but often at a
lower standard of quality and over a considerably longer period of time than had been
planned.  In agriculture, implementation was mostly good for oil palm  and



-7 -
unsatisfactory for rubber. Adequate supporting infrastructure was provided in most of
the oil palm areas, including processing and oil bulking facilities, but remains largely
lacking in the rubber areas. The Project, like its predecessors, did not demonstrate the
full potential of the nucleus estate concept for smallholder development.  Project
achievements by category are listed in Table 4.
(a)   Agricultural Development: Shortfalls in achievement were greater in
smallholder than nucleus estate components. The Project planted a total
of 43,311 ha (86 percent of original target) consisting of 31,153 ha
(83 percent) for smallholders and 12,158 ha (97 percent) in nucleus
estates. Oil palm plantings were 140 percent of target area compared to
only 50 percent for rubber, the wide percentage difference resulting from
the Pasir reformulation (para. 6.2). Standards of development are better
in nucleus estate than smallholder areas, and are mostly satisfactory for oil
palm and unsatisfactory for rubber. Based on stand growth and density,
TKPIR rated only 16 percent of Sambas smallholder rubber as class A and
33 percent class B.1/ The condition of most tapped areas is alarming
due to bad tapping practices; these include excessive bark wounding,
frequent total excision of the bark and non-sustainable rates of bark
consumption. No reduced frequency tapping has been introduced as
envisaged at appraisal.
(b)   Processing Facilities: Palm oil mills of agreed capacity and bulk tank
installations and wharves for direct oil export were built at Pasir and
Luwu. The Pasir mill is well run but there is managerial inexperience at
Luwu. The proposed crumb rubber factories for Pasir and Sambas were
not implemented; PTP VI prefers to sell its rubber to private millers until
such time as the areas would be replanted with oil palm, while at Sambas
the Bank decided not to finance the proposed factory when procurement
problems could not be resolved. Some farmers at Sambas produce air-
dried sheet in PTP-built facilities but most sell a poor quality product to
outside dealers for a reduced income.
(c)   Roads:  Overall about 79 percent of the targeted road length was
constructed but achievements are very uneven between sites. Road density
at Luwu, where often only upgrading was needed, is adequate but below
requirements of the more difficult terrains at Pasir and Sambas. Quality
of construction at Luwu and Pasir has been satisfactory but generally poor
at Sambas.
i/ Under the present GOI system of classifying the quality of rubber and oil palm plantings, Class
A represents plantings of an acceptable standard; Class B plantings require some upgrading to
reach the required standard; Class C and D plantings require extensive rehabilitation effort or
even replanting to become productive holdings.



-8 -
(d)  Settlers and Houses: Areas planted for smallholders provide for the
settlement of 15,577 families; the total construction of 11,832 houses is in
excess of the number of families so far brought in at Pasir and Sambas and
of requirements at Luwu, where many project farmers prefer to remain in
liMa. Unoccupied houses, many in need of repair, are a reflection of slow
identification of settlers by provincial governments or, as at Luwu, lack of
a prior dialogue with local villagers to determine their housing needs.
(e)  Food Crop Areas: Tne food crop component has not been successful.
Although the target areas were cleared and plots allocated to settlers, most
of the land remains unutilized with much reverting to sheet alang-alang.
Exceptionally, a number of low-lying areas at Sambas have been
impressively converted to rice paddies by settlers from Java.
Agroclimatic, economic and institutional factors contributed to this overall
unsatisfactory result, including poor soils, many of which are low fertility
podzolics difficult to cultivate and requiring high cash inputs, unfavorable
rainfall distribution, farmers' lack of physical resources and time to
cultivate the areas, poor markets for produce, and weak extension and
other support services from provincial administrations. In contrast to these
lots, the 0.25 ha house lots have been mostly well utilized for home needs.
(f)   Extension Services: Although the Project did not focus on providing
farmners with extension support for their mature crop following PTP
management withdrawal, a support officer from the provincial office is in
place at the three project sites. They are particularly involved in social
arrangements and in assisting the farmers with food/cash crops but devote
some time to technical dialogue with farmers concerning tree crops and
assist them in organizing some agricultural input supplies.
(g)  Conversion of Lands: Conversion of lands to smallholder title is far
behind schedule with certification completed for only a few hundred
hectares out of the 16,000 ha in production at the end of 1991. This is
similar to the result in other NES projects and attests to slow and complex
titling procedures. A committee of senior GOI staff established in 1988
to review the problem drew up measures to accelerate the process, but the
pace of titling has remained extremely slow.
(h)  Environmental Effects: The Project is environmentally sound with tree
crops generally providing environmental quality. Soils in the young tree
crop areas are well protected with legume and natural covers and do not
exhibit slope erosion.  In more mature areas, trees protect the soil
surfaces. The extensive abandoned steep slopes at Luwu are covered with
luxuriant legumes. In failed food crop areas, the common emergence of
sheet alang-alang might represent an environmental degradation. Adequate
effluent control systems are in place at the palm oil mills.



-9 -
7.2       Crop Production. Oil palm and rubber is in production at all sites but
yields are significantly below optimistic appraisal projections.
(a)  Oil Palm: In smallholder and nucleus estates, current production is lower
than appraisal expectations due to the uneven quality of plantings and the
effects of lower and more variable annual rainfall than identified at
appraisal, and in both types of plantings, it is now projected that total per
ha production over 25 years will be down by some 10-20 percent
(Appendix, Table 2). P1TP managements agree that average peak yields
are unlikely to exceed 21-22 tons/ha fresh fruit bunch (ffb) in nucleus
estates and 18-19 tons/ha ffb for smallholders.
(b)  Rubber: Some Pasir and Sambas rubber plantings started production at
seven years after planting but generally tapping has been commencing
several years later. Recorded yields are poor due to low stand uniformity
and tappability, and also to very incomplete yield data because of
widespread crop theft, illegal tapping and, at Sambas, the fact that most
farmers sell their crop directly to local dealers (Appendix, Table 3). It is
now projected that yields will be much lower than the very optimistic
appraisal estimates which would have put project performance on a par
with the best average commercial production in the world and that total per
ha production over crop life will be down some 20 percent to 40 percent
(Appendix, Table 3). The new profiles take account of TKPIR's quality
classifications of smallholder areas and assume that at least 30 percent of
the total smaliholder area at Sambas will be abandoned within 10 years due
to destructive tapping.
7.3        Settler Income. Sample data, available from Pasir only, indicate average
monthly smallholder incomes from oil palm of Rp 100,000-200,000 per month and as
high as Rp 380,000 per month which is very satisfactory for early production years and
far above their pre-project income levels. The oil palm smallholders at Luwu would
be expected to reap somewhat similar benefits. The Project is a success for both
groups. Although overtapping might inflate incomes at Sambas in the early years of
production, such yields are not sustainable and income prospects for the longer term are
not good.
7.4       Project Costs and Financing. With the scaling down of project targets
and devaluation of the Rupiah during implementation, total project costs were reduced
and utilization of the Bank Loan lower than anticipated at appraisal (Table 5). Total
project costs up to the end of 1991 were US$207.4 million, 56 percent of the appraisal
estimate of US$369.8 million.   From  the original Bank Loan amount of
US$154.6 million, only US$79.9 million or 52 percent of the Loan was disbursed.
Cancellations totaled US$58.7 million from devaluations of the rupiah and project cost
revisions in 1985, 1987, and 1989 and the undisbursed balance of US$16.1 million was
canceled at Loan Closing on May 14, 1992. Utilization of the CDC loan has also been



10 -
lower than anticipated with only GBP 8.7 million (46 percent) disbursed up to end
1991; the GBP 10.3 million balance is expected to be disbursed at CDC loan closing
at the end of 1993.
7.5       Economic Rate of Return. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the
Project as a whole was not calculated at appraisal as only one of the three components
were appraised (para. 4.1). The PCR estimate is 9.1 percent. The Project comprises
three distinctly separate sites, with seven components. Re-estimated ERRs have been
calculated for each individual project component, i.e., smallholder and nucleus estate
at each site and presented below.
% of total         Economic rate
Component                             project              of return
investment       Appraisal      PCR
Smaliholder (Oil palm)
Luvu                                3.8              15.7          32.3
Pasir                              17                14.1           16.2
Smallholder (Rubber)
Sambas                              13                12.3           5.0
Nucleus Estate (Oil Palm)
Luwu                                15               15.6            8.6
Pasir                               18               20.1            4.3
Nucleus Estate (Rubber)
Pasir                                8                14.1           4.3
Sambas                              18                4.5            1.5
7.6        Overall. the prospects for smallholder oil palm are favorable, for nucleus
estate oil palm low to marginal, and for all rubber development, unsatisfactory. The
re-estimated ERR for Luwu smallholder oil palm (3.8 percent of total project) at
32.3 percent is very high and appears to be due to low nonagricultural expenditures as
reported by GOI. Of the remaining six components in comparison to estimates at
appraisal, one has a marginally higher ERR (Pasir smallholder oil palm) and the others
substantially lower ERRs. The high costs of constructing mills and bulking facilities
(Luwu and Pasir oil palm nucleus estate components) is a significant factor contributing
to lower ERRs at these nucleus estate sites. In addition, at Luwu there were costs of
a mini-mill constructed and abandoned when the main mill became operational. Other



- 11 -
reasons for the low ERRs, especially at nucleus estate sites, include: (i) significantly
high development unit costs (Pasir oil palm, Pasir and Sambas rubber estate
components); (ii) less area planted than planned (Sambas and Pasir); (iii) abandoned
planted areas (Samnbas and Luwu oil palm nucleus estate); and (iv) significantly lower
rubber yields (particularly Sambas smallholder and nucleus estate). In addition, all
components faced declining rubber and palm oil prices (Appendix, Tables 5 and 6),
implementation delays and optimistic appraisal yield projections. All components face
20-40 percent lower per ha production projections over 25 years compared to appraisal
estimates due to the uneven quality of plantings and variable agroclimatic conditions
(para. 7.2 (a) and (b)). For rubber, significantly lower yield expectations due to
substandard plantings, poor tapping practices and shortened productive life of the trees
have also contributed to lower ERRs.  The economic impact of the Project is
summarized in Table 6. Details of re-estimated ERRs, by project component are in
Appendix, Table 7.
8. Project Impact and Lessons Learned
8.1        Project Impact. Although project objectives have not been realized and
sustainability of developments is far from assured, the Project has had some positive
impacts. Thousands of people who were living in poverty have received land and, to
varying extent, an economic basis for a better standard of living. Limited data show
that current incomes of farmers with mature oil palm have been lifted to levels
considerably above their preproject earnings and that there are reasonable prospects that
they will remain favorable. For many farmers in the rubber areas, however, the
longer-term economic prospects are for a subsistence standard of living. Institutionally,
the Project has upgraded PTP technical and management skills, improved the timeliness
of GOI budgetary support to PTPs for tree crop development and promoted
DGE/TKPIR capabilities. The establishment of facilities for the export of palm oil
from two sites is also a positive project impact.
8.2        Lessons Learned.  The disappointing performance of the Project, in
common with earlier Bank-assisted NES projects, can be linked to a number of
weaknesses of project design and implementation which provide the following learning
lessons:
(a)   Preparation issues not addressed: A number of important project issues
identified during preparation, and remaining inadequately addressed at
appraisal, seriously affected implementation success. These included
inadequate  identification  of:   (i) development areas  and  their
characteristics; (ii) financial status and technical and managerial capabilities
of the PTPs; (iii) commitment of government entities to their project roles;
(iv) funding, procurement and disbursement arrangements; and
(v) expectations of prospective in vjn settlers, particularly at Luwu and the



- 12 -
Dayaks at Sambas. All such core problems should have been clarified
before Loan Agreement stage.
(b) Commitment of PTPs to smaliholder development: The participation of
PTPs as development agents in the NES program conflicted with their
primary interests of commercial agriculture.  Their involvement in
smallholder development held little prospect of profit other than from crop
processing, but exposed them to many operational problems. They were
relatively inexperienced in the technical and management skills needed for
the difficult project conditions and lacked commitment to the programs
despite being paid a fee for their work. In the absence of defined
performance standards, PTP involvement became essentially a target
driven operation with emphasis on area planted rather than the quality of
plantings. The FTP's role should have been defined in more commercially
with their contracts setting out rewards and penalties according to
performance.
(c)  Maintenance of crops in maturity: The arrangement whereby PTPs were
responsible for smatlholder tree crops only up to the start of production
ignored two critical issues: (i) that good crop husbandry must be
maintained during early production years in order to obtain sustained long-
term yields and (ii) that husbandry standards would decline under
inexperienced smallholder management, particularly without extension
focused on mature tree crops. Crop maintenance was further jeopardized
by the inadequate provisions for small farmers to obtain credit for adequate
and tinely fertilizers, and by the late settlement of farmers which denied
them the chance to gain crop experience from working under PTP
management.  The Project could have been more effective with PTP
responsibility for crop maintenance extending into the first few years of
production so as to underpin crop productivity over a longer term, and
with provision of extension services focussed on mature tree crops. The
effects of the existing weak extension is evident in the poor production
prospects of smallholder rubber at Sambas (para. 7.1(a)).
(d)  Choice of rubber for Sambas: The Project erred in promoting rubber
and particularly clone GTI, at Sambas. At preparation, the consultants
failed to warn of the difficult agroclinatic conditions of the area for
rubber, even though these had apparently been recognized in the early
years of rubber development in the country. Further, prevalent high
rainfall should have signalled high risks of leaf diseases and the
unsuitability of clone GT1 for the area. It is regrettable that it was not
until 1989 that a Bank supervision mission, using relevant tree crop
expertise (para. 12.2), reported on the rampancy of leaf disease and its
debilitating effect on GTI 's performance at Sambas and questioned the use
of the clone and advised the planting of alternative high yielding, more



- 13 -
resistant clones. Such technical oversights have severely impacted project
viability.
(e) Unrealistic yield profiles: Project economic returns and income prospects
for smallholders and the PTPs are lower than envisaged because of the
unrealistic appraisal yield projections, the arrangements of transferring
crop management to semi-skilled smallholders from the start of production,
difficult project conditions and the experiences in other NES projects. In
any case, the projected yields were far above average commercial estate
performances elsewhere.  Further, there was no justification for the
25 percent upward adjustment of rubber yields in the late stages of
appraisal on assumptions of the genetic quality of the clones to be used,
high levels of management inputs and the use of low frequency tapping
with stimulation. This upward adjustment was rejected by CDC.
(f)   Credit recovery: Although project success was not predicated on credit
recovery performance, project design was not conducive to rubber
smallholders repaying their development loans. Whereas for the oil palm
farmers there are few if any alternative sales outlets other than the FTP
mills for their fresh fruit bunches, it is easy for the rubber farmers to
transport and sell their rubber sheets or lumps to village traders so
avoiding loan repaymene deductions as when selling through their PTP.
Credit recovery would have been better, but not totally assured, if PTPs
had been responsible for management, harvesting and processing of
smallholder crops for the early years of production.
(g)  Role of the food crop areas: Unsatisfactory preparation and difficulties
of implementation underlie the failure of the food crop component. This
can be attributed to a lack of Bank and GOI experience in designing such
packages and the close sequencing of the NES projects which denied both
parties the opportunity of learning from the results and experiences of
earlier projects. Successful implementation was further compromised by
the late entry of settlers to the Project, so that they were soon busy with
tree crop harvesting and establishing their house lots leaving little time,
even if wanted, for development of their food crop lots. The justification
for food crop lots on the grounds of providing income security, should tree
crop markets weaken, overlooked the difficulties of realities of producing
and marketing viable alternative crops. For most oil palm farmers, it
would now be more beneficial to have their vacant food crop lots planted
with oil palm for attractive additional income.
(h)  Delayed budgets and release of funds: Delays in the approval and
release of budget funds for smallholder development slowed
implementation, adversely affected the quality of agricultural works which



- 14 -
are sensitive to seasonal changes, and forced PTPs into some pre-fmnancing
of programs while neglecting others according to their financial resources.
9. Project Sustainability
9.1        The Project demonstrates that NES-type development is sustainable.
Prospects are very different for oil palm and rubber farmer beneficiaries. For the oil
palm farmers, the Project is sustainable provided: (a) they continue to work together
for group benefits, especially in accessing credit for purchase of fertilizers and other
production inputs and in maintaining harvesting and other farm roads to facilitate crop
evacuation; (b) they have support of an effective extension service for their mature
crop; and (c) commodity prices are favorable. Further opportunities for profit should
help to sustain PTP's role in crop processing. In contrast, for the rubber farmers,
prospects of sustainability are not good in view of the poor conditions of their trees and
low standards of tapping, and thus it is unlikely that the Project will succeed in raising
incomes of poor families above the level of subsistence.
10. Project Relationships
10.1       There was a good working relationship and dialogue between GOI and the
Bank, both in Washington and Jakarta, throughout project preparation and
implementation. Difficulties that arose were often the result of one side or the other
not fully understanding the positions and procedures of the other. Relationships with
DGE and TKPIR were friendly and frank with TKPIR cooperating closely with Bank
supervisions.
11. Borrower Performance
11.1       Although the Project set out to support GOI smallholder development
programs, its success in agricultural development was impaired by many GOI
procedures and actions unfavorable to implementation. Among these were tardy budget
approvals and release of funds, lengthy administrative processes involved in the
conversion of land titles to smallholders, cumbersore systems of procurement and the
slow identification of project settlers. Also a number of its agencies failed to provide
services committed under the Project such as extension and social services and
improved arrangements for marketing of smallholder crops. The PTPs in later years
worked hard to improve their implementation and satisfy Bank supervision action plans,
and as a result, their performances improved greatly.



- 15 -
12. Bank Performance
12.1      Having worked closely with GOI's tree crop development program over
many years, the Bank was very farniliar with its achievements, limitations and problems
and thus should have been well positioned through the NES program to make a
significant contribution to improved performance. Unfortunately in its enthusiasm for
the lending opportunities in the program, the Bank embarked on the financing of a
series of seven, closely overlapping NES projects before any were even close to
completion. Thus it (and GOI) did not have a chance to review successes and failures
and apply lessons learned for the benefit of the NES VII Project which condnued design
and implementation weaknesses of earlier projects. It was up to the Bank to proceed
more slowly for the benefit of the many project settlers and GOT's investments.
12.2      Approval of the Loan on the basis of appraising one site component only
and with no more than a general description of the other two, while leaving many key
issues unaddressed, committed the Bank to a development program which was
inadequately defined and not clearly implementable. This approach was not in keeping
with the Bank's operational objectives of financing solid, replicable and sustainable
works. A further complication was the Bank's desire to move quickly to sectoral
lending in GOI's tree crop program and, as part of this objective, to demonstrate that
project agencies possessed a high degree of capability to conduct development
programs.  But DGE/TKPIR  lacked exposure and in-depth experience in such
operations. The Bank erred. The reality of the situation, evident in the very late
completion of the component appraisals and slow execution of the Project, was that the
Bank had jeopardized the efficiency and impact of its loan operation. The Bank's
performance at appraisal was also less than satisfactory when it did not adequately
address some important issues identified at preparation (para. 8.2 (a)), preferring to
leave them to be resolved during implementation. The shortcomings of this strategy
were soon apparent as project implementation encountered difficulties, as project
procedures required GOI and Bank clarification, and as unsatisfactory project results
emerged. It was also inappropriate in the late stages of appraisal for the Bank to adopt
high and clearly unrealistic (even at that time) crop yield profiles as a basis for
estimating economic returns and project viability. The use of more tree crop expertise
in the formative and early implementational stages of the Project might have avoided
the ensuing problems. In later years, the Bank mounted a strong supervision effort,
including a large element of tree crop expertise, in an effort to address implementation
issues and turn the Project around. This effort included developmnent and application
of implementation indicators. The considerable improvement in m   field performance,
especially for oil palm in the last few years of the Project attests to the success of this
supervision effort.



16 -
13. Technical Assistance
13.1       About 378 staff months of consultant services were utilized, 88 percent of
the project allocation. These comprised 308 person months (72 percent of the total) of
individual consultant services, all of which went to TKPIR, 58 months of group studies
for PTPs, and 12 months of service to DGE (Appendix, Table 4). Most of the
consultancies and studies focussed on technical matters related to crop production and
the balance was in finance and management. No assistance was provided to SBPN or
to DGE for pilot smallholder marketing and no consultant was hired for marketing
studies, information management, evaluation studies or manpower planning. Timing
of the services was significantly delayed, with more than 80 percent used in the 1987-90
period as against the project plan of completing nearly all of them by 1987. It is noted
that TKPIR assessed two consultants negatively but nevertheless, extended the services
of one of them. Three staff completed degree programs and 27 others attended short
overseas courses.
14. Project Documentation and Data
14.1       There are extensive documentation files for the Project.  Supervision
reports were regularly filed and those of later years are particularly detailed, focussing
frankly on problems and providing precise action plans for the PTPs to improve
implementation quality. The PTPs kept comprehensive data covering quantities of
physical inputs but the quality of the financial data varied. TKPIR provided useful
summary progress reports and some useful studies such as the classification of project
crops by production potential. Numerous consultancy reports are deposited with TKPIR
and the PTPs. At this stage there has been little monitoring of smallholder levels of
agricultural inputs, production and income from tree and food crops. There was
compliance with loan covenants other than for the land conversion process and BRI
assuming responsibility for smallholder credits, and for the audits of project accounts
audits for which the time limit of six months from the end of GOI's fiscal year proved
to be too short (Table 7).
15. Summary of Lessons Learned
15.1 (a)   Project preparation issues likely to affect project implementation must be
fully addressed at appraisal and not bypassed for the sake of a loan;
(b)  The focus in the development of tree crops in which long-term productivity
is to a large extent determined during immaturity, must be on quality of
crop establishment before quantity;



- 17 -
(c)  Repeated late annual funding of works is hazardous to tree crop
development where optimum timing of operations is critical to success.
Funding issues must be addressed as early as possible in the project cycle;
(d)  Sustaining incomes from tree crops developed for smallholders depends on
adequate extension support;
(e)   Programs involving resettlement must be clearly defined and scheduled at
appraisal, and well understood in advance by the intended beneficiaries;
(e   A credit recovery system predicated on smallholders voluntarily selling
easily marketed crops such as rubber to a government agency has a high
failure risk due to farmer avoidance - credit recovery should be based on
crop management contracts or protected by a lien on land titles; and
(g)  Unrealistic crop yield projections have no merit in project viability
assessments.



- 18 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
1. General Assessment
1.1        The Nucleus Estate and Smallholders (NES) approach is at present one of
four approaches used by the Government of Indonesia (GOD) in its estate crops
development program.  The other three approaches are called the 'Partial' or
"Self-Reliant" Approach, the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Assistance to
Domestic Private Estates Crops Enterprises (PBSN). These approaches were primarily
conceived based on the vehicle or manner of development. For example, the 'Partial"
or "Self-Reliant' approach provides the estate crops smallholders the important and
partial inputs to improve their produce; the PMU approach utilizes a compact group of
individuals to serve as development agents for a given area for the establishment of
estate crops smallholders; the NES approach utilizes the managerial and technical
expertise of government-owned and private estate crops enterprises to assist the
smallholders to develop estate crops; and the PBSN approach assists domestic private
estate crops enterprises to rehabilitate or expand their own estate crops plantation and
related activities.
1.2        At present, Indonesia is cultivating about twenty types of estate crops, both
perennials and annuals. Land and population are not a constraint to expansion. Market
studies on some of these estate crops show that Indonesia has a comparative advantage
and competitive edge over other producers. Considering the potential for expansion,
GOI is utilizing possible avenues of development, among others, utilizing all possible
vehicles for such an expansion program. Notwithstanding this thrust of Government,
there are constraints that inhibits the full development of such potentials, among others,
institutional/organizational, managerial, technical and financial.
1.3        Estate crops development as an economic activity has several advantages;
it is employment generating because it is labor intensive hence assists in solving
unemployment and underemployment; it requires less investment per person employed
compared to manufacturing and industry; it is a source of foreign earnings or savings;
it assists in regional development and in transmigration; it is environmentally friendly;
and it has reasonable economic, financial and social rates of returns.
1.4        The NES approach is an economic, financial and social concept. As an
economic concept it has been found to be effective in development of new areas
reasonably far from existing concentration of population but with a minimum of civil
infrastructures for the inputs and outputs to be transported at reasonable costs. As a
financial concept with certain changes in project design, it is beneficial to both nucleus
implementing agencies and smallholders. From the point of view of the former, it does
not risk the investment which is shouldered by the smallholders but yet processes the
smallholders estate crops produce in this factories whose financial rates of returns are



- 19-
generally higher than plantations. The profitability of processing is well exemplified
by private processors without plantations who process smallholders estate crops
produce. From the smallholder point of view this participation in the NES projects
improve their standard of living hence their quality of life. As a social concept, the
presence of the nucleus estate implementing agencies is welcomed by the population
within the vicinity and is conducive to social harmony and integration. Aside from the
above, the NES projects have developed spin-off economic activities for the welfare of
the surrounding community.
1.5       An adequate and timely flow of local funds to finance smallholder
development is of utmost importance for the various estate crops development
approaches. (This is especially critical for the NES approach not only to prevent the
nucleus estate implementing agencies to pre-finance these smallholders components thus
resulting in an impediment to its commercial nature but more important due to the fact
that most of these NES Projects are in areas with very low population densities hence
other alternative economic activities are not available for smallholders.) If the direct
cost recovery system will be applicable to future estate crops development projects, the
sources of local funds for smallholders' development should have interest rates and
repayment periods warranted by the recipients' cash flows. Two alternatives, therefore,
are available, i.e., from commercial/development bank sources where credit terms and
conditions are regulated by government considering the requirements of the situation
and hence is an intervention on the capital markets or through revenues generated by
government specifically allocated to the estate crops development progran whether from
source originating from the estate crops sub-sector or from general revenue sources.
1.6        From a financial point of view, in order that the NES Projects achieve its
commercial orientation it is important that the fee paid to the  nucleus estate
implementing agencies not only cover actual reasonable costs incurred by them during
the investment period for the smallholders components but a reasonable profit. The
present overhead and management fee for implementing the smallholders components
and paid to the nucleus estate implementing agencies is based on a percentage of actual
expenditures on estate crops field development costs. The nucleus estate implementing
agencies therefore have a tendency to spend more for these items which are controlled
by governrnent through budgetary means. If would be advisable to pay the nucleus
estate implementing agencies a fixed sum for a unit of work completed according to
agreed standards after such completion has been inspected by a independent inspection
services team on a yearly basis. The fixed sum can vary in amount depending on the
item of work and shall be higher when performed through force account as compared
to a contract.
1.7        At present the budgetary allocation is on a yearly basis and unit costs are
broken down into four regions. Perennials are long gestation projects requiring several
years of investment and unit costs not only vary from year to year because of inflation
but because of location. A multi-year budget based on unit costs which are project-site
specific will be very useful as a basis of allocation of funds.



m20 -
1.8        At present, the state commercial banks receive a percentage of the amount
of smallholders' outstanding credit. The smallholders are obliged to sell their estate
crops produce to the nucleus estate implementing agencies for processing and the latter
deducts the amount due from the smallholders estate crops' gross income for their debt
obligations. In the case of rubber smallholders, considering the nature of the rubber
raw materials, they sometimes sell to outside traders and do not deliver all their rubber
produce to the nucleus estate implementing agencies. Several reasons have been given
for this practice, e.g., better prices and financing provided by traders and the
deductions made by the nucleus estate implementing agencies for purposes of cost
recovery. Considering this, it is advisable that the fee paid be based on amounts
collected rather than on amounts outstanding and should be paid to the entity based on
its efforts. For example, the collection fee can be broken into actual cost of collections
and cost of administration of amounts collected. The latter will be due to the
commercial bank and the former will be due to the nucleus estate implementing
agencies if the smallholders forward their estate crops produce and to the commercial
bank if the latter collects directly from the smallholders. The commercial bank should
also start to operate in the project site upon start of the Project, establish relationship
with the smallholders and provide to these smallholders the required financing to meet
their financial needs; hence, to compete with the traders who extend financial assistance
to these smallholders. The nucleus estate implementing agencies who have invested in
the factories and who depend on the smallholders estate crops produce to optimize
factory utilization have to compete with traders and private processors purchasing the
estate crops produce of smallholders and to extend to these smallholders the required
technical services in order for them to continuously supply the required raw materials.
1.9        The financial studies of twenty government-owned estate crops enterprises
(PTPs) show that the basic financial problem of most of these PTPs is their cash flow
due to the lumping up of debt-servicing between 1990 to 1996 as a result of their rapid
expansion in the 1980's. Some PTPs have problems of profitability and debt to equity
ratios. Improvements in organizational and operating efficiencies together with
restructuring of debt obligations and postponement of certain investments not affecting
productivity would strengthen these PTPs. Organizational efficiencies may be brought
about by a re-organization of the PTP system, implementing a structural and functional
organization to meet present and future requirements and instituting measures directed
toward the professionalization of various levels of the organization.  Operating
efficiencies may be brought about by changing the present incentive system of regular
employees based on a percentage of net profit of the entity to an incentive system based
on meeting of minimum operating efficiencies and cost effectiveness of various groups
of operating personnel, such as those in plantation and processing and expanding the
financial criteria not only on profitability but also other financial indicators for PTP
Headquarters personnel. It is expected that starting 1993 up to 1996 certain tree crops
PTPs will be in a position to proceed on an expansion program. The experiences of
the 1980's when PTPs expanded rapidly should serve as a lesson for the future
expansion of these PTPs.



- 21 -
2. Specific Assessment
2.1        The data in Part III of this Project Completion Report which originated
from the nucleus estate implementing agencies; namely, PTP VI, PTP XII and FTP
XXVIII were gathered by The Special Team for Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
Projects (TKPIR) from these PTPs, reviewed as to internal consistencies, and
cross-checked with past information with TKPIR data which were gathered during
project implementation. The data for Part C of the Project on Program and Project
Support originated from information within TKPIR. The Task Manager of IBRD for
this Project Completion Report further reviewed the data originating from PTPs and
TKPIR.
2.2        The NES VII Project. From project preparation to implementation was
conceived to be a sector loan and not a project loan; hence, only the Pasir Component
was appraised before Loan Negotiation and Loan No. 2232-IND was signed on
February 18, 1983. The Luwu Component and the Sambas Component were appraised
in 1985 and the Appraisal Reports submitted on November 15, 1985 and
implementation of these components under this Project started thereafter. The original
Closing Date of Loan No. 2232-IND was June 30, 1989 and after extensions, the Loan
was actually closed on December 31, 1991. The delay in the implementation of the
Sambas and Luwu Components was nearly three years from Loan Signing. The project
implementation problems in the Sambas component, especially as to the rubber field
development could have been avoided if the field preparation took into account such
relevant information as topographic, soil and climate conditions.
2.3        Conversion of smallholders and hence legal cost recovery is a major issue
in both NES and PMU projects. Conversion in the NES projects is expected to occur
at the end of the third year planting and requires acceptance of the physical standards
for the estate crops plantation, cadastral survey of each smallholder lots since these lots
serve as a collateral to the commercial bank for their debt obligation and audit of the
individual smallholders account. Estate crops plantations are classified into A, B, C
and D. For the smallholders components in the Sambas Project site out of 2,983 ha of
rubber establishment which have been technically classified, 40 percent is class A,
19 percent class B, 21 percent class C and 20 percent class D. For the Pasir project
site out of 8,262 ha of smallholders oil palm 72 percent is class A, 5 percent is class
B, 19 percent class C and 4 percent class D. For the Luwu project site out of 2,534
ha of smallholders oil palm 99.7 percent is class A. In general, for rubber plantations
the classifications were not as good as oil palm due to the nature of the said crop. If
the incentive system for the nucleus estate implementing agencies to undertake the
smallholder components is based on a fixed sum as suggested in para. 1.6 above, the
cost for rehabilitation of sub-standard plantings would have been reduced because the
incentive fees would be based on meeting of standards as evaluated by an independent
inspection services team on a yearly basis. The estate crops area allocated to a
smallholder is suggested to be surveyed immediately after planting and allocated to a
specific smaliholder after such survey. This will avoid delays in conducting the



-22 -
cadastral surveys for the smallholder estate crops areas and at the same time ritake a
specific smallholder responsible for the proper maintenance of this area which has been
specifically assigned to him at an early stage of development. The state auditor should
also audit each smallholders credit expenditures yearly to avoid voluminous audit work
which could accumulate for several years.  These changes, together with the
simplification of the conversion procedures, would accelerate conversion and assist in
improving the standard of smaliholders estate crops plantings. As at March 31, 1992
out of a total of 13,321 ha smanlholders in these three project sites which should have
been converted, 2,563 ha or 19 percent have actually been converted. The actual cost
recovery whether as an advance from smallholders or legally applied to their debt since
the conversion process had been completed was Rp 7.4 billion or 40 percent of the total
audited investment (due and outstanding), that was Rp 18.5 billion. The start of cost
recovery at present for NES projects is at the end of the third year of field planting for
oil palm and on the sixth year for rubber. The cost recovery should start only when
the minimum input requirements for the estate and food crops field development and
the minimum requirements for a smallholders family living standards have been
provided. The percentage of the gross revenue allocated to cost recovery should also
be based on the yield curve after taking into account the above mentioned minimum
requirements, i.e., the higher the yield curve the bigger the percentage for cost
recovery.
2.4        The yearly actual implementation schedule shows that the sequencing of
each physical activity is not on a rational basis. For example, availability of labor and
the minimum road infrastructures is required in order to proceed with estate crops land
clearing and planting. For the smallholder components, the smallholder houses should
be completed ahead of estate crops land clearing. The required labor, which when
contracted, should imply that the smallholders are occupying their houses at the start
of planting so that they can perform this work. An examination of the actual phasing
shows that this rational sequencing is not followed in these project sites. Usually estate
crops field development occur ahead of construction of the required smallholders houses
and roads since the nucleus estate implementing agencies receive their overhead and
management fees as a percentage of this activity. Changing the incentive system
coupled with a central control of the procurement process will address this problem and
improve standards of physical implementation to meet requirements, such as,
production.
2.5        A review of the supervision mission aide memoirs of the Bank and specific
inspection reports of the TKPIR points to the fact that certain specific project site
problems are a result of insufficient delegation of authorities, responsibilities and
accountabilities from the PTP headquarters to the field organization and the level of
capabilities of certain field staff especially for civil works and factory operations, hence
on the engineering aspects of project implementation. The delegation of authorities,
responsibilities and accountabilities to the field organization from the PTP headquarters
would be effective if this is tied-up to the incentive of the field personnel as stated in
para. 1.9 above. In the NES projects assisted by the Bank, support for training was on



-23-
the institution-building of the Estate Crops Training Institute (LPP). Only thereafter did
the Bank embark on a training program directed immediately to the training of
operating staff in the ongoing Tree Crop Human Resource Development Project (Ln
2992-IND) and the Tree Crop Processing Project (Ln 3000-IND). In the recently
negotiated Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project (Ln 3464-IND), training is
directed immediately to the operating staff not only of the Project but also staff of the
supporting government agencies. Future projects on estate crops in relation to training
should follow two parallel lines. One should be directed towards training of the staff
of the Project and supporting government agencies and when these trainings are to be
conducted locally on the beefing up of the training capabilities of the training institution
who would conduct such training, if required.
2.6        Though the loan period after extension lasted for about nine years, PTP
XII was not able to construct the required crumb rubber factory in the Sambas project
area. This delay in construction has adversely affected the income of the smallholders.
2.7        Part C of the Project consists of three elements:
(a)   Consulting services. Eleven consultants were employed under the Project
to assist DGEITKPIR in carrying out its responsibilities: one civil
engineer, one financial adviser, one financial expert, one general
management specialist, two rubber agronomists, one oil palm agronomist,
one soil scientist, two palm oil processing engineers, and one rubber
processing engineer. In general, the consultants provided useful support
to TKPIR. However, two consultants out of eleven were considered
rendering services which were not satisfactory. In the case of the oil palm
agronomist, an extension was granted on a provisional basis.
(b)  Studies. There were nine studies carried out under the Project: Aerial
topography & mapping, financial studies of twelve PTPs, Standardization
of Design of Palm Oil Factories, Standardization of Design of crumb
rubber factories (CRFs), DGE Institutional Study, Inspection services NES
& PMUs Projects, Statistical Sampling Data Survey Phase I & II, and
Environmental Study. Four studies are classified as very useful in terms
of aerial topography & mapping in preparation & designing of the Riau Oil
Palm Project, financial performance of PTPs and underlining the necessity
for improving corporate planning. The Standardization of Design of Palm
Oil factories and CRFs are used for the said factories funded under the
Tree Crops Processing Project.
(c)   Training. Two types of training under the Project were funded; namely,
long-term/master degree program and short-term courses. Three DGE
staff have successfully completed the master degree program overseas.
Twenty-seven DGE & TKPIR staff were enrolled in overseas short courses
in seven different fields of studies, and 120 staff in an English course in



.24-
Jakarta. Tnere were also three short-term courses conducted at LPP
Medan, two were for LPP staff and one was for NES farmers in the
manuring efficiency & effectiveness technique. In general, the courses
were useful in strengthening the capacity of DGE/TKPIR and related
agencies.
3. Bank's and Borrower's Performance
3.1        Notwithstanding the issues and problems encountered, the Bank's staff
originally from the Residett Staff in Indonesia (RSI) and later from headquarters in
Washington, D.C., assisted by RSI did their utmost considering the limited time
allocated for supervision missions and their workloads to identify systemic issues and
project-site specific problems. Likewise, the nucleus estate implementing agencies
considering the number of projects they were implementing, the geographical dispersals
of these projects, the difficulties inherent in the location of the projects, did their utmost
to perform. TKPIR, considering that it had to attend to about eighty NES/PIR project
sites, had to coordinate with several central and provincial government agencies and
several foreign lenders, had limited number of staff and financial resources to conduct
field inspection, did its best to perform its functions.
3.2        The constraints imposed on these various organizations involved in project
implementation could have been reduced had certain features been built into the PTPs'
organizations and operations and been included in the project design. This is easier to
say in hindsight but was difficult to foresee before the time of occurrence of the
situations requiring such solutions. This brings up the issue of whether a longer period
of phasing of the NES/PIR projects would have brought higher economic, financial and
social benefits compared to the actual results.
3.3        Close coordination resulted especially when the detailed functions and
duties of various agencies involved in implementation had evolved and communicated
to other agencies. Before this occurrence, lack of and insufficient coordination was a
major factor in delaying implementation adversely affecting the quality of performance.
3.4        As a result of over a decade of experience in implementing NES/PIR
Projects, suMcient insight has been gained which should be the basis of further actions
so that when the PTPs are financially in a position to expand and their role will still
include the implementation of NES Projects, they will be ready to undertake such
activities without the pitfalls of the past. These lessons learned should likewise be taken
into account by the private estate crops enterprises implementing NES projects.



-25-
4. Lessons Learned
4.1        Considering the experiences of implementing many NES/PIR projecs
including seven tree crop NES projects and one annual crop NES project assisted by
the Bank, the major lessons learned are as follows:
(a)  A minimum of existing civil infrastructures (roads, bridges and culverts)
from source of inputs to the project site are necessary to increase
effectiveness of implementation.
(b)  Suitability and availability of land for plantations (estate and food crops)
must be assured before implementation.
(c)  A continuous, adequate and timely source of local funds to support the
implementation of the Project, especially for the smallholders components,
has to be assured.
(d)  A multi-year budgeting system based on unit costs that are project site
specific should be implemented.
(e)  The nucleus estate implementing agencies should be paid a fied sum for
each unit of work completed based on compliance with agreed standards
after a yearly inspection by a team of independent ipection ervices.
(f)   The rational sequencing of various items of physical implementation, at
least for the smallholders components should be controlled through the
procurement guidelines by the central agency.
(g)  The PTP system and the structural and functional organization of a PTP
should be rationalized to increase organizational efficiencies and
effectiveness.
(h)  The officers and staff of the PTPs in all levels should be professional and
a practical and realistic incentive system based on operational and cost
efficiencies, be established.
(i)   Training required of personnel of the nucleus estate implementing agencies
and other government agencies concerned should be part of the project
and, when required, the beefing up of the local training institution who
will perform this training.



- 26 -
PART III: STAISTICAL SVMMARY
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                    Objective             Approval L_   Status         Comments
NES I (Loan 1499-IND)      Support GOI's tree        1977       Completed    PCR issued 5/8
NES II (Loan 1604-IND)    Crop program 4k            1978       Completed    PCR issued 5/8
NES III (Loan 1751-IND)                              1979       Completed    PCR issued 11/
NES SV (Loan 1S35-IND)                               1990       Completed    PCR issued 4/9
NES V (Loan 2007-IND)                                1981       Completed    PCR issued 12/
NES VI (Loan 2126-IND)                               l985       Completed    PCR issued 2/9
TCPP (Loan 3000-IND)       Improve oil palm and    1989         Ongoing       Closes 09/30/9
rubber processing
capacity and efficiency
La   IBRD fiscal year.
Lk   All Rank-financed NES projects had similar objectives of supporting GOI s program
for the development of the major tree crops (rubber, oil palm and coconuts) using
PTPs to plant and maintain tree crops up to maturity for poor and landless project
participants.



- 27 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Date               Date              Actual
Item                           Planned             Revised
Identification
(Issues Paper)                                                        11/80
Preparation/Preappraisal                                              11/81
Appraisal Mission                                                     06/82
Loan Negotiations                                                     11/82
Board Approval                                                        01/83
Loan Signing                                                          02/83
Loan Effectiveness              05/83                                 07/83
Loan Closing                    06/89              12/90              12/91
Loan Completion                                                       06/92



- 28 -
Table 3:  Loan Disburements
Fromi ly
1119=I    AttsA Imt. Prt Is. Amt. Rtvl sd Amt. Orgino I Amt. RAwls d #At.
Year     Cainltiv    Cialative   Cauuatjv.    Cumulative   Ceealtivo
133
Sep, 1932
Dec, 1932
Mar, 193
Jun, 19                                                  3.20
1934
Sep 1963        2.2           1.00                       3.90
Dec, 19U3       2.23         2.00                        4.60
Mar, 1934       2.23          3.40                      10.00
Jun, 1964       2.23         4.79                       16.40
193
Sep 1934        2.26         *.39                       19.26
Deo, 1934       2.23          7.99                      23.10
Mar, 19         2.23         11.13                      30.90
Jun, 19         2.3          14.J                       33.70         .0
i9 
Sep, 19         2.33         17.5                       46.40          .0O
Dec, 19         2.46         20.77                       4.10          .17
More 196i       2.47         23.97                      97.25          .19
Jun, 1936       6.           27.16                      60.40         4.10
SeP, 193         .           80.86                      92.75         4.27
DM-, 1          9.3U         33.55                     106.10         *.0O
Mar, 1937      10.           36.75                     114.35         0.21
Jun, 193       17.35         36.94                     1232.0        10.35
133@
Sep. 197       16.64         43.14                     135.25        12.64
DMe, 196       22.73         46.33                     146.90        15.72
Mar, 1936      30.96         46.5U                     160.75        23.93
Jun, 196        3.72         52.73                     154.00        26.72
1936
Sep 1966       37.54        U5.92                                    80.54
Dec, 196       42.20         56.12                                  3J.23
Mar, 133      4U.07          62.31        20.70                      41.07
Jun, 1366      52.37         5.51        U5.40                       45.37
1630
Se, 19#6        54.00        96.70        6.                         47.00
DM, 1is         U.37         n.           73n.6                      52.37
Mar, 1930      as."          73.50        64.11                      C6.O
Jun, 1930       9.9          75.0         94.J2                      59.9#
Sep 1330       70.06         70.03       104.53                      02.48
De, 1990        70.64        73.29      U14.3                        *l.50
Mar, 161        70.32        7.03        125.03                      67.90
Jun, 191       n.64         n7.36        125.23                      72.42
SpP 196        74.21         76.36                                   73.42
Doc, 16         75.60        76.36                                   77.92
Ma, 1o         7 .07                                                 73.92
JunI 19        76t.9                                                 79.33



-29
TabLe 4: Proiect Imnlem_ntation
SAR          Revised               Actuat at            X of SoR
Item                                 Unit             Estimate        Estimate             Camptltion           Estimteo
A. Smetlholder DeveLooment
1. Pasir Comconent
Rubber pLanting              ha             11,700                 0                  0                  0
Oil palm pinting            ha              9,000            10,000              16,730               156
Roads                        km               1,465                                  592                40
Settler houses               no.            10,350            9,000               6,750                 65
2. S1b s Comoonent
Rubber pLanting              he              12,000                               9,636                 s0
Roads                        km                465                                  34                  74
Settler houses               no.             6,000                                4,815                 s0
3. Luwu Compoen
Oil palm planting             ha              5,000                                4,788                96
Roads                         km                 92                                  366               398
Settler houses                no.             2,500                                  264                11
4 To1tl
Rubber pilnting               ha             23,700           12,000               9,636                41
OiL palm planting             ha             14,000           23,000              21,516               154
Roads                         km              2,002                                1,302                65
Settler houses                no.            18,850           17,500              11,832                63
S. Nucleus Estate Develooment
1. Pesir Comoonent
Rubber planting              he               2,500            3,000               1,878                75
Oil palm plenting             ha              3,000            2,500               3,796               127
Roads                         km                365                                  250                66
Rubber factory                no.                 1                                    0                 0
Palm oil mill                 no.                                                      1               100
Oil storage station           no.                 1                                    1               100
2. Saembas Coffoonent
Rubber pLanting               he              3,000                                3,016               101
Roads                         km                 56                                   20                36
Rubber factory                no.                 1                                    0                 0
3. Luwu Comrconont
Oil psLm pLenting            ha              4,000                                4,000                100
Roads                        km                100                                  417               417
PALm oiL mill                no.                 1                                    1               100
Oil storage station          no.                 1                                    1                100
4. Totel
Rubber planting              he              5,500            6,000               4,894                09
Oil paLm planting            he              7,000            6.500               7,798                111
Roads                        km                521                                  657                132
Rubber factory               no.                 2                                    0                  0
Oil pelm mill                no.                 2                                    2                100
Oil storgne station          no.                 2                                    2                100



- 30 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financine
A. Pri,ieC C0ots
(USS million)
Component                                       SAR /a           Aporaisal /a           Actual
Treecrot Development
Luwu                                           55.2              60.3                  38.0
Pasir                                         130.1             107.9                  89.0
Sambas                                         59.4              64.0                  64.9
Subotal
Proeram SumoortfTechnical Assisance              24.0              24.0                  15.5
Total                                  369.8 lb          256.2                 207.4
/a       SAR appraised the Pasir component which was re-appraised. Luwu and Samahs were appraised during project implementation.
lb       Foreign costs wtal USS 194 M.
Includes contingencies of $98.8 M and Front-end fee of $2.3 M.
Note:    Proiect costs were revised in 1985. 1987 and 1989 to reflect devaluation of the Rupiah and revisions to project costs.
B. Proiect Financint
(USSmillion) /a
Aroraigtl         Act
IBRD                                                                154.6             79.9
CDC                                                                 30.0 t-           30.0
Suppliers Credit                                                     6.6              N.A
Government                                                          178.6             N.A
Total                                                     369.8
/a       UptD December 31. 1991
/b       Great Britain Pounds 19M
,c       The tmining loan anount is expected to be disbursed at CDC loan closing on 12131/93.
Note: N.A  - Not Available: to be provided by GO0



- 31 -
Table 6: Prolect Results
(Economic luDact)
Economic Rate of Return
Appraisal               PCR
Component /b                       Estimate               Estimate
Luwu
Smallholder (Oil Palm)                    15.7               32.3
Estate (Oil Palm)                         15.6                8.6
Smallholder (Oil Palm)                    14.1                16.2
Estate (Oil Palm)                         20.1                 4.3
Estate (Rubber)                           14.1                 4.3
Sambas
Smallholder (Rubber)                      12.3                 5.0
Estate (Rubber)                            4.5                 1.5
Total Proiect                          N.A /c               9.1
Underlving Assumotions
Prices                                Year of Appraisal La    W o r 1 d    B a n k
Commodity    Price
P r o j e c t i o n a
(August 10, 1992)
adjusted to 1992
constant terms.
Exchange Rate to US$1.00              As at appraisal La               2050
Staff Appraisal Report: 1983 Prices - US$ 1 * Rp. 660
/a    Luwu   1985 prices
US$ 1 - Rp. 1,100
Pasir: 1986 prices
US$ 1 - Rp. 1,125
Sambas: 1985 prices
US$ 1 a Rp. 1,100
/b    Investment per project site as percentage of total project investment:
Luwu   18l
Pasir 43%
Sambas 31%
/c    Overall project ERR was not estimated in SAR.



- 32 -
Table 7: Status of Loan Covenants
ARWEDNT
--------.              TYPE OF    LPDATE  Ca  ST
SECTION               MdENAT    DATE    MIE    DESCRIPTION OF COVENAT                            CLRET MNAT STAlUS DE>IPTI1N
LO;;- - -. . . .                     - - -  . . .   .. . . .. . . .. . . .                         ... ... ... .. ... ... .. .._....
ART. 3.01M A)         F7        06/23/91       4  EORROER SMALL PRGUTLY PRONIDE FUNDS           IN CPLIANCE FOR CREDIT CONEHTS CM
REQUIRED FOR CARRYING OUT THE PROJECT.         PROJECT CSTS).  JSTANTIALLY IN CPLIA
FOR NOM-CREDIT C9OaTS WHICH ARE NM
P8WE LOVER THE IOMAL DLP VSTSTI LIKE F
OTHEP DLP FINACED PROCTS.
ART. 3.01(3)          F?        06/23/9        2 SCRRO.ER SMALL MAKE AVAILABLE TO EACH ESTATE   IN CM4LIANCE; ACREMNS DEOJT.
PROCEEDS OF TIE LOAN  iDER FINANCING
ARRANDEPENTS IN SCHEDULE 5; AND SHALL M
ADDITIONAL FLSDOS AVAILABLE TO CARRY OUT
ESTATE 0EVELC39ENT INCLUDING TERM AND
CCNDITIONS IN SCHEDULE S.
ART. 3.01CO )         Hi        0              4  EORIOER TO ENSLIE THAt PROJECT IS CARRIED      IN CO.IANCE FOR CRDIT CCOETS (On
WVT IN ACCODNCE WITH THE ORGAUIZATION,         OF PROJECT MISTS) SISSTAITIALLY IN MLI
MAAGEMENT AND IWLO4ENTATION ARRANOETS          FOR MM-CREDIT COIENTS WHIICH ARE N
IN CHEXALE 7. ENSAE RJNDS FOR PART A OF        RJCEDL aER THE NOM4AL DLP SYSTEM LIKE f
PROJECT ME RtEMVERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH        OTHER DLP FINANCE  PROJECTS.
PROVISION IN 3.03(A)
AMT. 3.02             1         06/2M/91       2 SCRROUER TO ENSUE THAT C0HSULTANTS TO           IN CPLIAIE.
FACILITATE PROJECT EXECUTION WILL K EWLOI
ON TER4S AND COOITIONS SATISFACTORY TO TNE
ART. 3.3(A)           1         06/23/9        4 SRI SHALL ENTER INTO 54ALLNCLDER CREDIT         NT IN COAHIANCE. CON'OSION OF SHALLC
AGREEI9TS WITH SETTLERS UNDER TERMS AND        TREE CROP DEVELOFENT  EXPEVDITLRES INTO
C0MOJi)3S SATISFACTORT TO THE SANK.            CREDITS IS SURICUSLY SEIND SIELE oUE
PRCBLEPS OF SUBSTANDARD PLATINGS ADO DEL
ITY  01 AGECIES CUI, U W V    ADO OGE)
IN CARRYING OUT LAND CERTIFICATION AWII
EPEIOITLRES AND TECHINICAL EVAUArTi s OF
PLANTINGS PRIOR TO MNIVERSION.
ART. 3.LO()           1         06/28/91       2  DGE TO ENTER INTO SIALLiOLDER DEVELOPnT        IN COPLANCE; AGREENTS EXECErTED.
AGREEMENTS WITH EACH ESTATE LUNER TERMS AND
AMT. 3.03(5)          1         06/289         2 MNiDITIOpS SATISFACTORtY TO THE BANK AND) CDC.
ART  3.04             MG        06/28/91       2 OGE (ASSISTED ISY TIN uSIJ) TO PREPARE AND    IN COPLANCE.
SLSMIT TO UEAPEA  AND MINISTRY OF FINANCE
ANNI&iL   K PROGRAM AND  SDET IN ACClANCE
WITH PROVISION OF SCHEDULE S.
ART. 3.0              aTH       06/28/91       4 RORR4ER S5HALL EJORE THAT SETTLERS ARE           NOT IN COPLIANCE.  ISSJNCE OF LAW LSE
ISSUD WITH LAND USE CERTIFICATES.              CERTIFICATES IS SEIND SOIEDLE MA TO
5LEM OF SU ASTNOARD PLANTINGS AND DEL
BY EPN IN SURVEYING THE LAND.
3.10                  F6        06/2/1         2 ESTATES SHALL PACSE  SETTLER  PRC1LCICM  IN  IN CO tlANCE.
ACCORANCE WITH SCI*.L  6.  SETLERtS TO SELL
OR LEASE TIHE a&ANTITY OF 6in ERCt OIL PALM
REQUIRED TO ANOTIZE  MT ORLIGATION.
4.02(c)               0TH       06/2S/9        2  TIE ACCO.NTS OF 800110RS' AGEINCIES             PARtTLY COPLIED. TWE! OF TIE SEVENTEE
INVOTVED IN PROJECT IMPLEPENTATION TO  E       AUDIT REPORTS REQUIRED ARE OVEML.
ALDITED ANSJALLY AND SEITTED TO TIE  SA
tidTHIN SIX NWTHS OF THE END OF EACH YEAR.
4.06                  FS        06/28/91       2 EAH ESTATE TO MAINTAIN LONG-TEll DEST-EQUITY  IN CPLIANCE.
RtAtIO OF 60:'.0 AT ALL TIMES.
6.01                  1           Ot06/89      2 ALL CCODITIONS PREDENT TO EFFECTIENss OF   CDC LaN EFFECTIVE.
CDC LOAN AGREDET FULFILLED.
-STATUs CODES*                  C    AT TYE CME                                          -             TPE mO      -
1IAVAILALE              INSTITUTION*  ICIATE/REVIIEAUDATE ORGANI-                         F4MFsELF-FINAWING RATIO
2I1N COPLIAJIC          HAL             ZATIONS;IMPUCIVE NMOT & MIS,                       FSIMET/EOJITY RATIO' DIET  =EVICE tATIO
3nPARTLY C EIXD                         AGEENTS SETEEN OR WITH                             F6mPRICIMC OF PRDUCTS
A4iOT IN COMLIANCE                      AGCIES                                             F7?ROVISION OF LOCA  PJN0S
SuTO K WAINWDEXLET   MANAGER1-    M1IUSLUPRVISION OF IMPLEMENTA-                           FUPEARE SECTOR INVESTINT PRMAM
&mND LONGER tELEVANT    IAL:            TIOPi (PAN/ACTION/REPOTING                         F9ULEWL OF OJTSTANDING AREARtS
7?TO K AMEN                             INCL. PROCUREEENT ACTION,                         FIOIASST REVALUATION- DEPCIATION
SaOi YET mEL             DLEVLOP ACMTING SYSTEM)                               TECHNIC-   T1IlSLTRLTION STi&bWS
M2.AOEMTE TRAINING POMM                   CAL:       12LAIO ACQUISITION & MAPING
M3WICRK PROAN/EVGET PREP'D                           T3USITE SELECTION
FINJIMC-     FiS1ISIING OF USMIDIARY                              T44 ETAILED ENGINEERING
IAL.:          AGEN                                               TSUENSAE 0 & IN PLAN & PIJING
F2.RATES OF RETN                                     76ENVNRNONT
F3CDST RECDCERY & INT. RATES              OTHERS:  OTHNOTERS



- 33 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
a. Staff Inut
Fiscal Year        LENP        LENA       LENN       SPN    Other        Total
to 1982            55.2        17.3                                       72.5
1983                          35.6         5.8       5.4                 46.8
1984                                                12.5                 12.5
1985                                                29.8                 29.8
1986                                                45.2                 45.2
1987                                                30.3                 30.3
1988                                                23.1                 23.1
1989                                                24.2                 24.2
1990                                                18.0                 18.0
1991                                                16.9                 16.9
1992                                                 2.9    10.7         13.6
1993                                                         6.5          6.5
TOTAL              55.2        52.9          5.8.   208.3    17.2        339.4
b.  KLasions (excluding RSI)
No.     Days                   Project
Stage of                    Month     of        in     Speciali-   Performance
Project Cycle                 Year    Persons   Field   zatcons  g    Rating t
Identification                 6/81       1        14    T
Preappraisal                  10/81       5        19    E,A,C,T
1/82       2       14   ELA
Appraisal                      6/82        7       28    E,F,F,F,G,T,M
Appraisal (Luvu)               4/85        3             A,G,F
Appraisal (Sambas)             5/85        3       23    F,A,F
SupervisLon 1                 11/83        1        -    A                   3
Supervision 2                  2/84       1        14    F
Supervision 3                  9/84        2       14    ATF                3
Supervision 4                  7/85       2         6    AAE                 3
Supervision 5                  1/86       4        37    T.F,G,M            3
Supervision 6                  9/86        2       61    T,F                 3
Supervision 7                  6/87        2       36    T,F                 3
Supervision 8                  2/88        2       28   T,F                  3
Supervision 9                 11/88        2       28    T,F                 3
Supervision 10                11/89        2       27    T,F                 2
Supervision 11                11/90        2       24    T.F                 2
La    A - Agriculturalist, E - Economist, F - FLnancial Analyst,
T - Tree Crop Specialist, C - Engineer, M - Kill Zngineer
Zk    1 - Problem free or minor problems, 2 - Moderate problems,
3 - Major problems



INDOGESIA
"ES VII PROECl
PROJECT CIWLET IOU REPORT
Phosing of Tree Crop Develote,nt by Planting Year (ha)
(Coqared with 1963 SAM Sched.le)
~~~~.... ................. .. ........... ... .... .... ....... ....... ..... ...
1961182 1962/63 1963/84 1994/6s 1965/86 1966/87 1967/88 1966/89 1909/90 1990/91 Total
.......... .. .................... ...... .. ... ...... ...... .... .... .. .. ..... ..... ........
Lu. Canant
... . .......
atllholder Oil Palm
SAlt                                      400      500    1000      1250    1250       600                                 5000
Actual                                             360     1000     1174      400      236     1518      100               4m
Nuleus Estate Oft Palm
SSA                                       100     1000    1000      1500      400                                         4000
Actual                                    160     1010      700      764      215    1151                                  4000
Pasir Ctnent
. ..............
S_llholder oil Pol-
SAR                                      2000     2000    2000      2000    1ooo                                           9000
Acttl                                             1142     1210     2054    2084      1711     4604     2808      1057    16730
Nucleus Estate Oil Palm
Sm                                        200      800    1ooo      1000                                                  3000
Actual                                    200        0       50     1426      388     1200                                 3264
Smtlholder Rubber
SAM                                       500    1ooo    2500       2500    2200      3000                                11700
Actual                                      0        0        0        0        0        0                                    0
Nucleus Estate Rbiber
SAR                                                700      S00      500      800                                          2500
Actual                                    442      165      702      200      310       59                                 1878
smbas Copornent
S_liholder  utbber
SAm                                      3830     2170    2000      2000    2000                                          12000
Actual                          474      1374      849     1189      154    1436       871      673      1027     ls8     9635
Nucleus Estate Rubber
SAM                                       270      730    1ooo      1000                                                   3000
Actual                          204         0      197     1356      220      269      113      24S       31       381     3016
Total Oit Palm & Rubber
. .... .......  ....
smllhotder Cafnnts
Sa      r                                6730     5670    7500      mo       6450    3600                                 37700
Actual                          474      1374     2351    3459      3382    3920      2818     6795     3935      2645    31153
Nucleus Estate Ccqiwnts
SM                                        370     2630    3300      4000    2200                                          12S00
Actual                          204       602     15ls     2758     1234    2220      1711      1445      31       381    12158



INhDOESIA
NES VIl PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yiltd Profiles (tons ffb/he) of oil Pate  for Smtihotder Cs.h.)
nd Nucleus Estate (n.e.) Areas
(1) Pasir Cmofleflt                                                                                     (2) Luwu Corfonent
........... ..................... ....... ............. .. . ....... ......... ........ ............... ....... ............. .... . .... .... ............. ...................... .
Su_llholders               Nucleus Estate                Actual               Saaliholders          Nucleus Estate           Actual /2
----------- ---- -           .......--.------               Yields  1     -   -----------------    ----------------             Yields
Profile                    Profile            to Date                        Profile               Profile         to Date
Year from                SAN          Estim_te        SAN        Estimate       ---.-.-------.SAN                  EstIm_te   SAN         Estimate  -----------------
Planting                 Profile      for PCR         Profilte   for PCI        s.h.      n.e.           Profile  for PCR    Profile  for PCR   *.h./n.e. combined A
.................................................................
-                              3              -           3            2.8    3.2                3          3           S          3             2.1
4                4             7               5          7            8.2    7.2               II           7         14          9             6.9
S                8            12              12         12           13.2   11.5               15          12         19         14            12.1
6                 14          16              16          1I          18.9   21.7               17          1S         22         17            14.3
7                 17          17              20         19           18.1   20.8               19          1l         24         19            16.8
8                 18          18              21         21                                     20          18         25         21            17.3
9                 19          19              22         22                                     21          18         25         21
10                 19          19              22         22                                     21          17         25         20
It                19           19              22         22                                   20.5          1T      24.5          20
12                 19          18              22         21                                     20          17         24         19
13                 19          18              22         21                                   19.5          16       23.5         19
14                 19          17              21         20                                     19          16         23         18
1S                 19          17              21         20                                     18          15       22.5         18
16                 18          16              21         19                                     17          14         22         17
17                 l8          16              21          19                                    16          14         21         17
18                 16          1S              21          18                                    15          13         20         16
19                 18          15              21          18                                    14          12         19         16
20                 18          14              21          1T                                  13.5          11         18         15
21                 15          14              17          IT                                    13          I1         17         14
22                 15          13              17          16                                  12.5          II         16         14
23              .15            13              17          16                                    12          10         Is         13
24                 15          12              17          iS                                  11.5          10       14.5         12
25                 15          12              17          15                                    11           9         14         12
26                 15          11              15          14                                  10.5           9       13.5         11
27                 13          11              15          14                                    10           9         13         11
28                 13           -              15
.............................................................................   .................    .............................     ...................................
Total Yield (tasw/ha)        400           362           461          425                                   380         321    479.5          386
Avg. yield152                                                                                                          1.         19254
(tons/ha/yr)               16.0          14.5           18.4         17.0                                  15.2        128        19.2       15.4
I SAD estimate                             91                          92                                                 84                   80
/I 49X of .h. area wid 1OOX of n.e. area in production
as at end 1991.
/2  61X of s.b.  orea wud  1X n.e. area in production at end 1991.
/3 a.h. steeling n.e. crop in large quentities.



INOOSEIA
IES VIl  PMOJECT
PROJECT ComptETION REPORT
Yield Profiles (dry tons/h) of  buWer for Smalblolder (s.h.)
and NucleA Estate (n.e.) Areas
(1) Sas"  Co ponent                                                                                                                                          (2) Pesir Cont
....... ...... ....... ...... ....... ...... ...... ....................................................          ......  ......   .......   ......   .......   .   ..... ......
Smliholders                                       NuIleus Estate                       Actual                                              luctl,.  Estate
-..  .................. . -yields %2                              --
1963        196S       Profile                      196         1965       Profile              to Date                                            Profile           Actual
Year from                  SAR         SAN %1   EstimIte                     SAN          SAM  %1    Estilmte             ---.--.-----                         SAN           Eatimto           Oields
Planting                  Profile    Profit*   for P                          Profile   Profile   for PCI r.h.                          n.e                    Profile         for PCI          to Doto n3
...................................................................................................................................................................
6                   OS       03            .                        0.-          0.2                         0.02           6.1?                   0.1                                0.01
7                0.?          0.6          0.2                        1.0         0.6         0.3             0.08           0.41                   1.0              0.4               0.13
a                0.9          0.9         OS                         1.2         0.9         0.6              0.16           0.60                  1.2              0.6
9                0.9          1.0          0.6                        1.5         1.1         0.?             0.22            0.54                  1.5              0.6
10                 1.0          1.1         o.r                        1.8         1.2          0.8                                                  1.6              0.9
11                 1.1          1.1         0.9                       2.0          1.3          0.9                                                  2.0               10
12                 1.3          1.2         1.0                        2.0         1.4          1.0                                                  2.0               1.2
13                 1.4          1.3         1.0                       2.0          1.S          1.1                                                  2.0               1.3
14                 1.5         1.4          1.1                       2.0          1.6          1.2                                                  2.0               1.4
15                 1.5          1.4         1.1                       2.0          1.6          1.3                                                  2.0               1.S
16                 1.5          1.5         1.0                       2.0          1.7          1.3                                                  2.0               1.5
1?                 1.6          1.6         1.0                       2.0          1.0          1.4                                                  2.0               1.4                           a
161                1.6         1.6          1.1                       2.0          1.6          1.S                                                  1.9               1.4
19                 1.6         1.5          1.1                       2.0          1.?          1.S                                                  1.9               1.3
20                 1.5          1.5         1.0                        1.9         1.7          1.4                                                   1.9              1.3
21                 1.5          1.5         1.0                        1.9        1.           1.4                                                   1.6              1.2
22                 1.S          1.3         1.0                        1.9         1.6          1.4                                                  1.                1.1
23                 1.5          1.3         0.9                        1.9         1.S          1.3                                                   1.6              1.1
24                 1.5          1.2         0.9                        19          1.4          1.2                                                   1.               11
25                 1.2          1.2         0.6                        1.6         1.4          1.2                                                   1.8              1.0
26                 1.2          1.1         0.8                        1.8         1.3          1.1                                                   1.6              1.0
2?                 1.2          1.1         0.?                        1.6         1.3          1.0                                                   1.8              0.9
28                 1.2          1.0           .?                       1.8         1.2          1.0                                                   1.8              0.9
29                 1.2          1.0         0.6                        1.8         1.1          0.9                                                   1.8              0.8
30                 0.8          0.6         0.6                        1.6        10           0.8                                                   1.6              0.6
31                  -          0.3          O.                                     0.5          0.7                                                                    0.7
total Yield (tons/he)    31.4             29.8        20.8                        44.6       34.1         27.0                                                   44.0            26.6
Avg. yield
(tons/ha/yr)                  1.26        1.19        0.83                        1.78        1.36        1.06                                                   1.76            1.06
X 1983 SAN                                              66                                                 61
X lNS  SAN                                              70                                                 79                                                                      60
,............. ........................... ... .... ... .....................................................
/1   Coaposite of two profiles by plantin  years.
/2   25  of s.h. are  and 182 of n.e. area In production as at  nd 1991.
/3   17X of planted area in production at end 1 .



NILCLEUS ESTATES AND SAUOlDER PROJECE VII (NES VIl) - LOAN 2252-110
PROJECT COIWLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EXPEWITIRES tWIER PART C OF DME
1. CONSULTANT5S SERVICES                                                                                page 1 - Part C2/DCE
................................... ..
No            f field            N ame of firm and    IDuration/Perlod |   Location         Value In        E Equiv.  | qemark  I/
I                        I         Person          I                 I                USS/Rp '000        US 
... ... ................. .................................... .............. ............................. .... .... .    . ........ .... ..... ....... .......     ......
1  Civil Engineer           PT. Amythas /             Dec'A7-Dec'88         TKPIN       Rp    88,900        53,875     Useful
Hr.Baubang Pratlknyo
2  financial Advicer        Mr. Anwar Axis            July'86-Ju1j'87        TKPiR      USS   83.580 *    110,336  , Useless
(Individual)                                               Rp    19,200
3  Flnencale  Expert        Resources Management      July'86-July'87        TKPIR      US%   98.700 *    110,900      Useful
International (NMI)/                                       Rf)   19,800
Mr .EO .Agultar
Mr.ED.Aguilar (ext)       July87.Juty'88        TKPIR      USS   98,700 *    111,406       Usefut
Rp    21,600
4  Generat Managoement      Agricultural Develop.   Ju1y'88-July'89          TKPIR      US!   99,445 *    111.788       Useful
Advicer                  Services (ADS Pte Ltd)/                                     Rp    21,600
Mr. ED. Aguilar
Hr. ED. Aguilar (ext)    July'09-Dece89         TKPIR       USS   42,760 *      48.555     Usefut
Rp    10,721
5  ceneral Management       Hadecor /Mr.ED.Agullar   Jan'90-Dec'90           TKPIR      US%  101,636 *    117.358       Useful
Advicer                                                                              RI)   29,400
6  Rubber Agronomist        Guthrie/Mr.EN.Falr         Oct'86-Sept'87        TKPIR      US!  95,960 *    108,666        Useful
Rp    21,600
Mr.EM.Fair (ext)          octB17-Sept'8a        TKPIR       US!  100,410 *    113.116      Useful
Rp    21,600
7  Rubber Agronomist        Cuthrie/Mr.Mac Michael   Oct'8U-Sept'89          TKPIR      US!   98,660 *    114,431      Useful
Rp    27,600
Mr.MHc Michael (ext)      Oct'89-Dec'90         TKPIR       US!   29,080 *      31,995     Useful
Rp     8,725
Mr.Mat Michael (ext)      Jan'90-Dec'9          IKPIR      US!  105,740 *    122,940       Useful
ftp   32,200
Mr.MHC HMichel text)      Jan'91-Dec'91         IKPIR      US!  106,911        125,700     Useful                                0w FL
ftp   35,700                                                          *~,
................... ....... ................ ............. ................ .......... .... ............... ............ ............  
Note: *I Identify: Very useful, useful or usetess                                                        -----> 1COntinue page 2                               OI 



me |         Field          |       w  M_of Flr mnd    Dwuratlon/Period |  Location        Vatue In       Equiv.  R|emrks '
I                        I         Person          I                I               I USS%/p 000 I   uS        I
..................... ............................................... _... .... .. ..... .... _............................... .................. . ....... _......._.._.
8  Oil Palm Agronomist      Sie Derby Services/      Feb'87-Jan'o8         TKPIE      USS  106.575 *    121,281-  Useless
Mr.DJ Grahm                                                Atp   21.600
Mr.DJ Grahm (eat)         Feb'88-Agst'89        TKPIR      US$  60.6e5 *      67,046    Useless
ftp   10.800
9  Sol[ Sclentist/Land      ADS Pte.Ltd/4r be loer   Apr'87-Apr'88          tKPIP      US$  104.968 *    118.380      Useful
Classification                                   'tp   22,800
Mr De Boer (eat)          Apr'l-Apr'59         TKPIE      LK$  104.560 *    117,589      Useful
Rp   22,800                    et
10  Sol[ Scientist/LAnd      Guthrle/Mr. De loer       July'89-Dec'89        tKPIP      ofl  120,150 +     79,256     Useful'
Classification                                                                      Rp    13.400
Mr De Boer (eWt)          Jan'9O0ec'90         TKPIR       Oft 248,893 *    166,337    Useful
Rp   31,600
11  Palm oil Processing      Louis Berger Int/         Oct'86-Jan'87         TKPIR      USS   22,350 *     25,326     Useful
Engineer                 Mr. B.Sorensen      *                                       p     5,060
12  ralm oil Processing      fonsultan Processing      July'87-July'U        TKPIR      us1  108,290 *    120,996    Useful
Engineer                 Sdn.Uhd/Mr.Jeffrey Tip                                     Rp    21,600
Nr.Jeffry Tip (ext)       July'8U-July'89      TKPIt       us$  9600J4 *    106,817    usefut
ftp   21.600
M4r.Jeffry Tip (ext)      July'89-July'90       TKPI      UsS   99,981 *    116,460    Useful
Rp   32,500
Hr.Jeffry Tip (ext)       July'90-Juty'91      TKPIt       US%  99,929 +    118,702    Useful
ftp   35,200
Mr.Jeffry lip (eat)       Juty'91-July'92      TKPIht      us   99,929 *    118,455      Useful
ftp   35,200
13  Rubber Proctes.Eng.      ASk tiD. Sethu            Ray&7Jpr'SS           :X;1       tp   51,tZ'           -       IseNL
ftp   21.600
oft. Sethu (eat)          Nay'588Apr'89        TKPIt       USS   96,595 +    112,309    Usefut
tRp    24,000
US$2,001,150 
TOTAL CONSULYANT#S SERVICES:                                                       DOf  369,043    2,786,848
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 67,0 ,ua =ml j
1.~~~~~~~~j



II. STUDIES
page 1 - Part C2/DGE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ... .. .. ....... ........ ....... ............ ..........
No |    Field of Study       | NUone of Firm end/        Ouratloti Period      Location         Value In       Equivt.    Remrks
Io   FieldIof Study           Nae or Person            u        e |                       US$/Rp I000 I     USS -|
.. .. ... .. .. . ......................................... ..... ........ ....... ............. ............ ..... ........ ..........
I  Aeriat Topography '       Pt. Exse International    6 wmnths (1966)  Rtiau              Rp    64,596        39,149  Very useful
Mapping
2  FInanciat Study of P1Ps ADS Pte.Ltd & Touche          0 months (1987)  8 PTPs
Ross Darmawan                                (I,V,X,XI,XiII  USS  343.600       5231479  Very useful
XI*I, XVIII.  Rp   296,n00
ADS Pte.Atd A Touche
loss Darmauan              0 months (1958)  2 PTPs           uSs  175.166       241,046  Very useful
(IV & VI)      RpI  111,996
ADS Pte.Ltd & Touche
Ross Darmnan               8 months (1989)  6 PTPs (KXVI, USS  460,500          673.176  Very useful
1.II i ViI, Rp   377,500
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vi Vlll,X)
SCV * Co  nd PT. Agri-    o months (1989)  4 PTPs (XVII, USS  132,814           224,616  Very useful
consult                                         XKIX.XXIV-  Rp   160l 655
XXV,XXVI II)
3  Standardization of        Sle Derby Services         0 months (1988)  all Cro fact. US%  199,311          103,665  Very useful
design Palm oil fact.                                                   of PIPs        Rp   182,620
4  StandardizatIon of        PT.Encons * ARAB *Hardec  6 months (1988)  all rubiber    USS   87,439           121.614  Very usefut
design CRF                   Eng.Sdn.Ohd.                               fact.of PIPs  RIp   59,806            .
S  OGE Institutional study Hadecor                      12 months (1988)  OGE office    USS   92,15S          159,342      Usefut                                           'c
Rp   114.218
6  Inspection services       PT.Exaa International       4 months (1991)  Sulawesi
NES & PHUs projects                                                    (North.Ccntral Rp   149,932          79,751     Useful
Southeast)
was. x  ass-Sfna *-a--=-s    assa-- *t-  2Xss----g------=g-S3 I XSM ZZZZEZZZZZXM *WSt*W.=_ 5 22 2 =                             Z 5   :5SEZZZ
Note: aI identify: Very useful, useful or useless                                                   ----- - contirie studies
r'      .                                                                                 I' 2.



............................................................................................................................
No       field of naudly            Mm  of Firm *ndV         jhwatieuVPerlod |   Location    I    Value In  EI uiv.                  tenmrks *1
I                           I         or Per$" n         I                   I                 I USEtp  00  I    uuS                      I
.........................................................................................................................
r  In p  tion services          Pt. Tanirdo                   7 months (1l91)  K1 l_mntan
UfS a PMs projects                                                             Ewst South,  up   165.97             1O.243       Useful
fast) ami
West Java.
IPI  oger                    3.5 _nths(19M1)  Lepung              lp    75*003          40.321      Useful
I  Statistlcal S  pling         central  eureu of              I year (1969)    Loop"              Up   lW9M0          107.042       Ukseful
Oats Survey - rhst    I   Statistlcs
Stotltstical Sawpiing O  Cantrat  uromi of                 1 year (1990)    South Sumatra Up   1T6.25               92. 63       useful
Data Survey - phes. II  Statistics
9  Envirostantal Study           U  niversite  srluldjaye.  4 *anths (1966)  Rlau                  Up    24.750          15666       Useful
Pate.n.
... ....................... ................. ........................ .................. ................ ........... ............. ................ ......... ......
TOTAL STtUDIES  i                                                                                       2     .USSI*490.9es    279207
ltp 2. 15S.123
fn:c-dgel
SI
.                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;
..
r  e                                                               t -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4P



III. TRAINING                                                                                         page 1 Training-Part C2/DGE
...... ......... ..... ........ .......... .................... .. ......................... ................................. ................
No1      Type of Training           Ju fberf     Status  I Duration                 Location         Value in        Eqv    IReorks
I                              | Ot Stoft   |P| *eriod                    |                     |USS / Ap  o00o   USS
~~~~~~~~~...... ..... .... ...... ... .... .. ............................... ................................................................. .... ...... ..
A. Long Term (Master)
- Pro 9 Master Program               2                   AprU88Ney 90    Unv.of Illinois USA
(Mario Irlyani 9                (TKPIE)    Completed                              &           US$  127,110    127.110  Very useful
Heri  Sibarani)                                                        Unv.of Narford USA
Post Gredu te 4 Master             I                   Oct 'a5*Sep'86   Internatlonal Inst.  USS   24,371       27.776  Very useful
Progrm (_lardlyanto)            (TKPIR)    Coopleted           I        for Aerospace Sur-  Np        6,300
Jan o9-Mar'90   vey  Earth Science                           .
(ITC), Metherland
S. Short Term
1. Persomel Hong.& HIS              3                        1987         Royal Inst. of       t     18d,60      33.891  Very useful
(:adi u Mosman S &         (DCE A TKPIR) Completed    (3 wonths)       PuAlic Adm.. U.K
Nastuti )
2. Project Plan.Analys.             1                        1987        Univ.of eradford.UK  E       8.650      15264  Very useful
IEndro Yuwono)                (TKPIE)    Completed    (3 months)
S. Agric.ProJ.Plaming &             S                         1967       Univ.of *radford,UK  E       24.220     44,036    Useful
A*ppr.of Rural Prol.       (DC  * TIPIE) Conpleted    (3 mnths)
(I Sitoapul.NardjIto es)
4. Numnn Resource Develop-                                    1987       Asian Inst.11ng       USS   74, 6O      74,660    Useful
ment training                  (DCE)     Completed    (3 months)    Nanila,Philippines
tColosewoko, Cs)
S. Estates Management               2
(Su.  l EsrtoJo) nTKPllt)    Ceqpleted                    1968         MASMS, Techn.Ltd   t        1556S     27,468  Very useful
3 d months)    U.K.
6. Estate Mg, Emir. 4
Soels (Sri Kustiautl,            3                         1969        MADASM. fechn.Ltd   t       23,348     40.024  Very useful
Rusbandl 4 Cedore)           (IKPIR)    Completed    (3 onths)        U.K.
7. MonitoringlEval.,1urel
Dev  Ag Proj Plaming,            5                         199        University of East   t       Sl 000    102.SOO    Useful
Envirorveental Mgt.        (DCM  A TKPIE) completed    (3 montha)    Anglia. U.K
(Naman N. Naryanto, Iur
nouo,1mamy S,1aUb ang)
B. English Courses                 120       Co pleted    1490 hours            Jakarta        Rp   109,962      66*644    Useful
(DCE 4 TKPIN)*
............................ ........ ............. ... ......... . ............... ... .................... ..... ............. .. .......... ........ * 
Sub Total A + S:                                                                                           SS9,373                                                 LA
...................................................              ....                                             ..
- ),continue Training - Part C2/DCE



.
pS  g  2 - Trilnnng
.. .. .. ... .... ..... ........ .... ... ...... ........ ...... ........ ... .... ........................................    ... I......                                                                                     .
2o    Type of lraining o                                        2l0uber        C Steatus                   1 D 99at1on                   LedocatioInp V                                        Eqv           R             *s/rk
I         ,                        I  ef ~~~~                ~~steft                Period                                                    IS/Itp  001 us$
. .... ...... ... .... ... .... ... ........ ........................... ...... .................... .. .. .................  ................... ..... ......... 
.  Shoert - lerm tPa
. ..... .......
1. Cawputer Applicetlon A                                12              Cofpleted                  lWl1                            Medan                  Rp    40 044                                  Usefut
Educet Ianal Techrology                      (tPP Medan)
Setting up  a Trolning                                                                                                                                Rp          6 008
2. Technlcel Trrlning on                                 20              Completed                   1991                          Miedan                  lEp          4 448                             Usefut
fertilizers                                  (LPP Medan)
3. Courses for NES farmers                                100            Coppleted                   1991                          Nedan                    Rp          4.791                             Useful
(farmers of
RES projecta)
. .. ..... ..... .... ................. ............................. .......... ................ ............... ........................ ....  ........ ......F...... -- 
Stb Total C:                                                                                                                                   Mp    55.291 1   27,925>1
TOTAL  TRAINING   :                                                                                                                        USS  226.11                 587,298
C    142,223    ......
Rp ,171,553
fn: c-dge2
"~~~~



IV. 6TP39 EPEf D131URES (Prt C3)
I De    1Type of Vorks           N b   _of firm *nd/or   | hwation /I          Physical      | Vaue In   |  Eqv.   I Renrks
I                             I    tntractwr                Period      I    chievement      IUSS I p 'iI      Us$    I
1. Cu.truttlen of CIUf
.   .................. ........
&.0 jub g,J-bli, PTP IV       PT. Nanggala Prat7           1969             20 Ton/day      USS  524,650  1,095,925
(12 months)                        [tp 1,917*868  1,620,575
b.1lnio.11ou, PIP IV          PT. DomJ Start                1967            10 Teiday       us$  466,096
(12 menths)                        Np 1,744,500  1.462,953
c.OkAlt Selasih,11eu,P1P IV  PT. Ttaunatl                   1989            10 Ton/day      USS1,383.201
(12 months)                        Up 1,319,252  1,489,103
d.JIDo S,Jsi,bl  PIP VI       PT. 0ongun Dell_ Indd.        1989            20 Ton/day      USS13605,236
(12 months)                        Rp 2,095,060  1,910.102
2. loods construction of          PT. Pance Karys J"Ys          1969              42 km         Rp 2,069,677  1.188,129
Kahianta-Koto KeFr, liau          maya                   (12 months)
3. Prfocurement of Trainins       PT. Insatic                  1990/91           various        uSS  100.950
Equlpent                                                 (4 months)                         on    57,000    185,972
V 6,134,000
4. Oesign  nd Supervision of                                   1990/91
load Cosmtruct on:            PT. Trl Sil  Patris       (12 months)            100S         Rp, 279.169    156,677
Kotokeah r - Kathinte. Riau
S   Extension Services of         DCE (force accosmt)        1990 - 1991           1002         Mp  445.331    250,891
MES/PIe Projects                                        (24 months)
6. Operatleina/Start uj costs         DCE                      1967/8S             100l         Rp    66,000      60,000
for TCND                                                (12 months)
.. ................. .........  ............... ............... ................ .............. .................... ............. ............. ...............
US$3,840,133  9,429,117
TOTAL OTN1E  EXPIUDITES (Part C3):                                                           DM    57.000
V 6,134,000
Np 9,957.057
In:c-dge2
'a.-



m         m                                    m      m nm       e      en e        m e         r           m m -    -               m      m N -            m5m                e    e m
oW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w   PA    on "              o a         o     s    n o          n o                                                                                  w
*  u    NN.a                   mom   mm  mom   mm   mm  mu           M mm ma    m   mUn  mm   mam   us.  mm  mm           momi  NMm   mmn  'I"          IWO L    Mm    mO  mesA  Mm  $MM
a ~~~~~~~~~ m~~~~~~~~      ma~~~~~~3   4A.   mm  msim  Mm   m.   nMOM a mm      mis  be. u   ma   mULI  ae.rn  a...   Mes  ma  at."  urw.,  Ma."  Mi.It  Mn."  M5."  M3."  asn.  31.
a- 
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        a~~~~~~~~~M Om   di    m am           M   OMP  a  am 41M   Om   Om   am   am                de    d'   a5m   un   Oam   On   aLM   un   aMM   Om   aem
awftL-                    IAm   emS   mm    mAb   Am   SAO   mA   SAN  am    eD   mAm  am   am   lem   GAD            5    mO   $M   am   i-U    SD   mAm   eM    m         em    m
a aM   am    m    m   Om   am11  am                ,11a   am   emO  em.  am   em         m   a     a's  OAS          a           OmAS  aMM   dM a
* MOM eM&.M                       was  4Mm   saM  i  mm m. m..P  usA  mm  me  usan  LU   MO  ms VIA.  Mm                     mad  lma   "Jo usWO   we  SLI  M's  in.G           . 
a, Z,^,",9,* . ", ^6 -
* @a  __               ___.m    am    Am   wi   41m                m   as.  nm   a.m n.m   aso  nLm  Smam   n. ll     nm      Nm -m4   sAs  m1   u.m  -W.m   am" nl  nm,,  as  am
, _ -                         MA   "A -L ,4   M __           mm"  MAO z".w  _."     OLM _.^0  IL:_  ik._  __o   111 M|   IL 9_    K"I U* -   .M"  _^ M MA  _g   w    was  W.& M ske
s _ as   as  eL          ait                                                                 t as   as   as  as  a a    a.  _   a    as   as   as  .   a  .  s  .    SL
Nine-1.                                   mm               Mm *-       em  em  em   m  i  em  em *m  e    e   m  em  m  em  e   m  e  e   em  em
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k  *k,  g_   -              -     - " n -           -;m-  '"   -    7"          -,  -    - -;.-                     "-               -    V_
@z_W _ t_ *_ v- t- tw tS t- 4_ tS t t- _ tw tS sS ew v vt tS tt tZ t_~~~~~SLO  sko  LOU*LM-Z    akm  W                              ILS   LM                  LM   LG
_W__X~~~~n    ama  n.m  n.   n.    an   n.   _-m  n.nnm su                                  .m  sem  see  seas   ss.u   n tw.m.... ai   see.  sea   sea   se.  see .......... se-  see.  _,_e
e0~~~~ua__ n.m   ni   am   ti    n.m  n.   n.s  ui.e  M.   n - .m    m   am   am   n F  asse  nm    .   am- n.m   am                                       m a        .m nm a
_Daawsma                          $MA   MO  100  WIA  60:  1fi   10    M    BS SA 0    MM _  .  InA  .11    -0                                          s  Du    is    U     to
umifto_  .__wn mnw                        sal                                     giaga _M                              eKn_wn<  e. e-4  u  t  .*_*.se an   Ilk  It __ s 
msmmrn~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mu  ns   mu| mi   us.  mm   u i.u  sm   ma   ma  m msn mz*@n@ ma| u.n    as-a  sn. smug  mm m           a m    m          a m         .
b_^_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a,   " M  .* lam  60   .S M- _ 8441   NSA  00.31  imm  no."  3.  li  ml.  31,3  INA      M2  $1,0   mu  *0.-s  60.11  w     I .4s  IWO  IW    M.4   W
am   am_  aL    am    m             am    am    mm   ar   am   am    Wm  am                  a      M M    WM   AM   am  a m    Wm   am   Am
___as                              m    ma_   m=   sas_   an,   mn  in,   in.   e_   as.  usa  nes   a_m.  u.  mm             mi   mn   mu   es.  ss   ma  ns   ma_   m.   m              m.
esesun s_  se                      me. m._  m    mm  liesn.m  sm.m   sm    a   sul  mm  m - isa   el.m| nm                   sll.  mmai    m*.m  ue.   m.m  ne.  sn.   m.   ume.   mm,Ws
Oa""Galb"                                                                                                                      A -       l           
neae                               am   n.m   na   _es   i.U   e.m  tem_  sem  5e  ss.m   e.   me.m  mem  mes a_  sees   semi  seen ,nil  n.m   sam  s*.   mes  n.m  tm  t_m   m
n"_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L *a.-      O.Na aL_ *._0  Ue  *   _ *.M  0310  NL._  *onX 11A   Wall  -kgs  fks ~kn   SIAN  $e  aLs   wal"  abd   wo.  wN  wift   *t
Knm   g_s   Mm           N   r..   am4"  n3e1 rn  M.m t_m   g*.m  a.im  Ien"  n.m    am   n."m  sam   n*._ U."a   .   esa  a.ma   Kes    WM  te_f  1m1
abaa                             -_ me. nem  am  mm  s,e.ea maid  simm  mum  sem0  A      ile  sum.  e.1m samsem  em.m  ni.en ,M   m,sf  n.m  ..m   a.m   g.M   urn g.m   nL.m   n.m
ue.,.__  n.   mne  eL                                 .m  se en  ^se    ms.m  aim  ee.  sua   sas  *1.6_  e_n   ms.   s*am   m.   sezes8 8sne  isneis  see   mesa  m8s.m  ie  senes
I- 
v-*mem.-   i.e.  em14  Im   emg   em1   em e                                 m e         m    m i          m em        e      m e         m    m e          m    e     em0   km   emn
se~~~~n  em  em  emi em  ieee em  em  em  em  em  em  em  em  em  esem em  em  em  isa em  e.m  em  i.e. em  em  em, em~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~skmKmKo sanic-  O-MWL0 cm
am-  seia          .e    . m W.    t   seas wM m   sei.mW-   am   n.m  see.  n.m  s'. sm   ne    .    .ms'    .m nm nm sem nm
Jn,m  neml Main  mKIN s"km  MMI  eaum  ens. is"  Mis  inn.. sss.m  esea1  ssem  OWEN  sse.l  mats  guess  VMS$e  nen  skim  skn  seneeim   .n   s
ne    mi   sa    m    en   sa   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~al   mn   ino   em   ma9  mn   mis  see o  me  mau                      a     a     a
~~a-e-s.s..miv..sag me



I  *'31113
I ,  11* JI s!
I  *I''
I    I ''
I  '*II'''
I  '1j3!Ih
I  'lII'''
l    .1'I
I  1113111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
*   111'!'I
ItllI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



em~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_Vm' asw} *gs_- ***eS'ts  .su,_s  calm's  @E@&w w._esai  i s  e .-,  mu,-,  Ma Oea  weV m Wm"    US  sims   suen    sum.    rmV"'   mew.-   mm  m's  mI -ma e                       Im    m-wgl  mm-m  _ 'umd       UmAse   WIuW           amum    mem  W
prim    mov      ege M So   use    MSeri    -lo is    seem      U miles se    as'"m    muse       mu'ss    mi55d   owne    sIu       gM&I,   g1ises  sses. I     is 0   hem'sll   ISIuIg   selel  ge's.    mm        mu.IP    amu     suie            -111
muI      mn        mn n     I      sm'se    mess    *sesc    mss    men;       misc    eec a      eem    eee       mume     _ns      me      >sue     sae       sce.u   ees      mum      seru     maW      mm      nv>u   car
mS   wme                     _ _  -    Wes      ,   No So    me e.    me..       We      e n      mine   ems   _se    Me*e           M am   cleW      me VA    WI e.g,  em em   As N     gMee s     an     t M#   M  M    Mam          _qin3
mmms   mum's  rn-s   mats.  ceuWI   meo'  gsa ms _                     sheems,  $s*ssse   Isesa    muie  sinues  mses    mu.   mmm    .ucma'  zamue    mies'  .si'   5z1mg  seem
a ,  e.          e.       es       a                 11mu      me      e       ise      se 1      mu      mu       u        mllm  e  meM      me      m1        ul      me      em       m                                                    u *_
miS    rn-u  rn-s  WIg  WI-s  ms  rn-s    rn-i  ma-u    rn-u  mi-u     meg     mi-u~~~~~~~K  rn-i  maON                     oW                                 N mwu -deing.1
mu_VJm m8 _'-                 W    m.    me.         m,    misx        mV      mz            WeWl *Mes1   seez     n       Ms        ese     e' s              MVI    @         owl      o
M"'     m's       m'c     mu,       Sl mm-           mii      ma,      m's     me        m_ *     ._'l    rn-      rnw l             _m       m
egei    ees      sucu     mg    gm-s       -e.m     Wle   g_ne    .me.    _n    *s mice         mic      mi    sugE   aiim         m-i me              mues             me_-
ma's    "M       es        m       maMc      ei      mot      ma's    to'.    tos       muoes                .s    tso.    mu-c     mm',    "         mu'g      ms     m'       r'         Iuue
g       a         us      5~       us               iW"s    Ce        is       is       se e1 a                    s N  "  no  au                     a ss     su      Ce       a        c
-}  -s   @    |      -s       -"       -"          @     -'      -8       -'t       -       _'s      ^1      _V        _,       _        _       _,S_
a  ae o                   i        t o      t os    *V I                                            Is  st a t*  *A s  to          *M                                                    * A                                     _aa I
_0      11-91    in       GP       It"      an       M                *__-mmomems
:_s                                         No_ _   .60        :N`           _t ro le48 *||l l"l     _  eem_n_
"   =   ,a,  ..  U   ^   ..  *s  *t  *-  *-  *   *s     *-       *"       Z        .       .        .        .        .        .        .       .         .       .~~~~~10--nw-"M
_ _r__e-w



Mawr   WrM    arm    aIi'M s              m warsmcss-imw-  urin   mawr   asw..   wm i           rmScUO  owns   c.w.a'  sma.  MsIMI  Wa'.c , cu   faiMui Uflig   maU'm  oman.1 1111,68'1 or""s imimi               www
arm    arm    Ma-sm    mm    rn-sc    mm-    mm"         mi."  :M      =M      o'&m   mw.    r   icr    inc-i    "B.    mm    WINe  mm'sV ac-mci  wh-Im. cair'. maui  "no"n'   Wmal inia   lawsc -nini                     -
-W    -mm   M-w    M-m    -'-m   -n,=   maW    m'                VW m_-      m_'      M        miiW    mam __     _    _m       __    arms  "rnc-  mIMI _      mu's   =m'l  _Mu,  _mm'   _m'_   man '-a
Wm. i   MIS   ccVg   own    "I'm   ON'"   cW#m   ccM    sco    a"'I's  mc'IP  saw    M'-    awo   OSm4   *'a   ea,*    5i   :I0V    Inv    an t
*  iimm'  mea   "ac           UmN   Mm-asms    ac-    sa    m's   4c*mim   amm' :Mai   Oma    aMn                              m ..                  .... im    m'   m MO  so                                          los"11m
VW   m         _m'l  $a'lt mn'   mtgi  vams, mEwm  Icc                 Sil   "m"   ""W"  _ma `  _W  ta                mc       t        _    _ mm  m m mav   t ma _ ma                                                -
ofw    so      sI' rm          as      ma      mcc    M.       bme     mu,             as m    a-      mu    on        mm    cV"   ma    mm.    -P           ON      a 
mm cm  ama    em'so    mm:   ame       Wma      MmIMI    m             m      kam     amin    ma      scM        a
ow         4-t    t Mt     *l        "     U01    on'    $w, t't    t      t        t      10t    tM'      tMs                     t      *      *@      * 
loss     "t    Kula    NMI    ms-s    ma'l  0cm                ants    "a"     _-    *ms    cmes   "M us              clt    ac       _s
_-     _'m    macit  c_'       ma      mas nac    maci   ccc _m                ma      mac     ma    mat _nc    mmct    mut    ma -t    _mp.t _u.t
_   1w      WI *t>t         sa.14   owe    MI ttts       Ots       M'"ts   go-so    M"at   M'"t   OK,                      Or"    wet    =v tt                                                                     _tAt
am  an  GM  "me  GM  an                                                                                                                                     0-010-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~maam
ac's    ma ~~~~  ma  ml    camp-
Soam   m       mm      mm      Mm      am       mm     &I       a      ma      ca      m        a       m      acma        a          ma      ma      ma-Mm                    a      m      a
_ Ct  _ m   _1       tA        t _              cttctt _t   _i   _              _       .      em      c     _     _    _    t _                       M
*muttt   t t4  1t1_



-~~~ *                               *        p       *        p        *        Va       *                -       **       N        -                  -      |-       SI               Ile   -           -        a        a       -        N
d~~~N                        i       U        W       SN       a        -        -       Ni       WI       NW       Ni      SI                  .     SN         N      SI       M        W        W       Nm                Nl       uNW      N
Lee4    LIN      LU       Low      LODI    cNS      LUG      am
___wamft                                                                                                         of                                                                    of       i  ,s    0        is       is               14X 
3,441    am        Nob      so=      SA       MNO        Nf   Oki*    KID        M"          n WN N  II S     l,   NL         Oi*    "Lo    is.        skll    N*=
._       till    SlI      t N     .45I      IN      N.IN     W.IN    0.IN     amW    5WM        ].45    .MAS     KIs    WkI        WON    51.5    aIm        lam*    Sam
_IN   _IN       salE     *rn      N.m      IM       WI1    Wan    skin        Wm       UrSOn  sn.          n     WIN      W4N     am        an    II."       IL:
_ _.I    SlIm   U IN     MMD      aI       WIN    I         M       N -      MII    U..       P.;3S,            MUG      M.G      WI  N*    I     Sa3w
mm      atm      am      WIN   W"N         .M1    "U NS      N        0.3    MISal   S&           Ns       M     i In r U -                 W
.Smi                                                                                                            iaN     51.13 _IN W1.1W _el    am                    am      am       WIN *-N          am       MM?      Mm,    1)1W       IIN M"n"
.mm                                                                                                lieS     MIN      WIN      Mm      WIN      Still    P*W     11.1W    P.1W     MIN     NUtS    N.IN    ILstwIN    MUG       WIN#UA  IAm MAO   86,41 111okoo   UMI WM  .I    IM  ame waw  10103 FIM  LM NO
_                                                                           _,n                                                   INS SnuN         M.NS    SUN      14.1w     WI       SIN *W           M         I       MUG     a)1W        to-1     to 
acim      saLM     mmLV   LiM.4    iaINA   0,414611  ILNLIN   9fA.I  9tfMm   1.N1IN  tI         WOWS"aI    tIMI   1041.11I1 tamIS  kLIN IN LIN.IN  im.10.   I.N.N IN   IN81.11  LN,IN   iSKIN  LtIN IN  IINI    4,101.IN1       we.
~~~_F_          .MI   ima n_        lM __    .I    lN IN  teiI    t__I    Cie IN          Z ISI   laMI    jam   ital    *mtW   IWiU    tUtI    15&I    Sw .515    1*.3    I_ 555*   IWLI   1.111   1.111 IN *I.N    JN SI
-~- b4.U4I                Mia      aN    MAIN        WI      mUG    .9MB)    WIN   S.NL         aWl9 @S..I   ILWI  i              thUG   IW        teU    tiS  *tWiS  tIS  *thS   tWiS  tWIN                      eM    i*U    LuN          iNiU l X
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
W1



mm's  ewsn  maw,  mw-m   maw_  .on _n  wmwm   m__  owe  mw.  a_e  ma me                          wu   mm    m-m    mama   m'.  mm   Dom,"  m ms "SDo                      WOam    ar.  m         mu    _       _ _       m  _w_
_w   _W    _'M _WI             ::    M_M    =J  _WUr IMI    MW  _ W _lM    MM                        M          _       W       n  OK         V     uwn _m -    awn   w             wm    wov  __ws
swim   rma,  malu'   Wooa    mi,ma..-   maw   mwapmr  ma,,.  OMe,    awe    SMew    WMa.   mama  aWV&,  earm i  mm's   maioo   sm'. 8macwa  mm'. swi                        am m o  n" ma'.    mat.                            d-a
M                      urs  _IB    "          awn | _M    '" M _1 e s_l_ ___
maw    mama   ma ma   mama   mama   maw               n ma   mama   mama   maw   mama   mama    m    maw    miss    *awa  ma ma              n                                                                         _     _. mawa   mutt   mau  mama's  mass   maw   ..'ma   ,mI I  -mW
_   maw    arm    ma'.    maas    m    m                     me    "a        a         '        u _    m    a,       a' .    I       -      _      m " m  e  m't
*  n     _m   am}-   "am    am        a        Wm%  ma           W'  saw     m       m M I       Var        a OWN                  t_      m    __a,                                ,_
ma  ma  sma            a       me                             a       ma       _      iUt    ma      ma     mIm                    W       Ws
onmw    Oma              -       -a    _                         l E                                                sWma   *Ium   mW       ma m    mas    m'                                                                    .gt
_s~~~~~~~~~~~=                      a"       =_    two    we i8-s   Wu    OW    _"V    OWN 
WVm   Ma           .       ma      ma    mali   Wa   rem         amg   mm        maU    mm4    mwl    ua        map     ma      ma     ma      ma      mae:~4
mas o Uan.                               U            mAwl    seem    Ms      mu1   a,s        a     mw      *        w            M m  m  mafm
ain~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ W' MI    owl    SWI    4w  _n _m L  w  p     4p      ut     a       a              sv        '
ma-s    ma'.    mu    maw    maw    ma.   mm  mu    ma as    ms    ma'.   mass    ma    ma'.   ma-a    ma  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      V-smmaa
-       -      us      ma      a      ass     *a      ma.    ma        6     ..       a      n       5       w      5       me     ,       a       I      I                _      _       _      _
- - aa a -    m m manas as m mm m                                         -mm-
*  a  Ia.  u  a  a  a      a      a       m       a       a       S      m       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  mm  !    M1    Me    em  an     P     O        e     m       M
0-.mmwq w'4ma4t



_u    mom   Warn   mua. mao.   _1Un   MaI   eauu.  __*.  mam   oww.  suw   su    41                    Mw wo   asau  UuO*U  OIu  MwW wSUW .*s   UMSW  _w 'S irn                  Maoa  Maw M                  .
"VfoW  sNub  lieuu           old'". ssoa   *a ontM.     Inu 508-5   4 o-   $sw".  u..4   OI's,   mw   wow,  mini  mrnl "*,on   GP mg's  mew't   . .4  m,s1 11      mwu  m.I  m1w    Wm                      w     w
SUb    OW4   05 *4   1urs     nk .1 urs  0e8   osuM   Hsas   lie-   08gM   ows           wa u   lWI4 *w        SU     SUM* uUM    0         ow S- l,       Un    UM        UO       _
mm     mw      m         m         m           NW  anMm   mow   MM   mow   mow   wowsl ow-ui   4"Ino wull g  mum'=s anw    o'   sue   oomo'        51ii                            nU
t           *wo  s  ols  nwa)  1ew's Mimi  SM            MS    fl nUl a    Wugs  m'sow inU4's  5mwI1 u m Ull_                       _n     anW5  lWU11 mm   rn-ul
_ _ cm                                          fas t    "a  ,          8    gme lS          we    gm       in            me __
-'I0
l               .      W      oI     o       4ow    m       o      la     g0     ma       w _ 
so             os     to     as      in     r         l   ow       ow     m _ow                  w       w 
o      I      5       l       5      I       S      o      o       a      a       5      0      5       a      5       0      0                                                                                  _
_w       _      w            Mw      Mu   _u        Mw  _ml_ _oo    em           Mw   _.a  _O   _M  _ e    Mw                 Mw     U_      mg     am_ml          SW   .801       e-
Z  S   ~  s  n     S  .  ..  ,     9^    S      St      &      l      ^       s      *      *              *       ^      S                                          a 
_     _  |  _         *wU



muX.{                                                                                                                                                                               - 1                                         -   m .
mlii    maUi    mile          aw,    mimi   @ aau         mm       aeu.u  *aim         mime    mime    *gum         mim      Sae    ma,           u  a    uam-u  s _mw.    mi.    eeli             mi   um511    imar   zem.           hI-r g    eula -I
ma|w,   ma.,   ma.    maw             maw    maw-    m s    ^n8_"ew    maur,   mese    m.a m|ze _sew    m _    e   ma..,   nmi    mal    mm.   .aaaa    mml's   mmi' _s   a.wa    mm.-   mai   glum.,  liim                             EU.,   iN  M 
mura   muas    m,aa    mu..   alar               nii   mIml   *-m lam   SIm           um1l   muON    mim    d            ,   au -m  a ui wta    mm             -l   b
'Am '    me                 aim        1e                  al        aK    M          " 1    m            em                 em         ta       a,        am "                                                                                                                    m |  u  n  u   "l 
Mle      "I'l     "mI'       ml       a.,o      mal       "'       10t       -'        mIv.,              &",.t    [ua  am                                                                                                                                                           muUPI lo
Om        m m   41           m        me u! No            Om       to         i       mm        an        no       a          Mamal                         s
|    W  Ir                                                              u    l    -        sg  go        @@   *l         S_
me                 ml       lS        mu       an         ez       l_    w w _ti      m         me        mm in eg
USo     it"       wPm ,                        Sl        mm         Mu       a.       mi        I"       C                    I 
mu  m  mi  ggii      im        mu        met      ~~~~     ~~~~~         ~~~~~~. MO ,a  a..'  em  Oml  in   im        a
at       a   m   "          "I        ml         a       So-       "I                   no      el       ai        AS        mu                                                                                                                                                fti ma
mu       mi        mu         u       am-,     u.  sz  mm-in       in.Iwo.-I           mu       aim       mu         a 4                u o  g   em u, rnl
situ                Nu      ma        at        mu        VSu      ii.       mu        megg.                        m          a       m         am        ata,
*        C          I       n         S         I        S.        i          I         I       S-                                     "u       .. a                . m  ui                     .                                                                              mamue
allmso  GPa.                          mu       mu        mu.amu4u4M6inas
ml  ml   ml       em        am        em        ISa.      me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T    am,  me1  La, mm         at        u       mug        ma lm               me      aM"m                                  Soe      Sm,        Iwu
a  -  a  -  -     -          Ia       -         eq                 a.       -         a.        a.        iu       II        A         S         a        a         p        a         a        a         m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  S
P-3uool de



I   -- *'I""'!'5t:|  I  s 
*     --   1E11Ul!3'I  1X   3! 1i    I
I     --   *.3II!11!I W IV        * ! * 3
.      --   *.II!I|1' II   !   II t 3
. -- ''I""'!' ! I    
I  --   1 1III!*E!I   I   Ii | U
|  __   t-|^f!|"|| g       gg 7g3
*     --   za!Ia'.um3zu            ,t 7 U
I      --    1~ !    fi fi 3   ii If fi
I2    __   Pl.     3"    ; N I   i!fi I 
1     ~            ~~~ - w ; I 
|~~~~~ 4 -- 3-3 g I5 
* 3     -   PI!                     ! I I
.      --   I!I           I               3   ! 
I  --   t*'       U I'I  II I 
'i~~ ~~~ .               .X...
3 , i     -  Pi ',,3,l        1 1 Z1  i !
|~~~~~ 1! 1'|i||t 3 w ..... 9  



a -  -                                                                                                                                                                             S -  - 
u-  *      *        .        .       *        *  S.US.~   ~m~u   u~m  in~mm  ~m.m  a~&em  a.m.a  uuua  ~m.m                       ~     ..u,..m  aa.m   m..,m  giNs -   N - MS 3CM -   UMS|  U -SM  U.S1-CM  U.Mm   U                            i
vz    mim           pmi  a u   * .__e_it t_n._ u..m     mjM       -  _S.M  39   M   MCNURU n._U *__a     SiM     *.   3,.     _a                        43.1u.2   U.M    IIC          n._M1.15    mc   sa ._. *M.IN.    6Lm.CM. SlUi   ICC    u.__.
s _          __u K             _      t    _ ^_         s                *|   *_w            _ :-~ ^-~^~                       x.       ".      ._       _W      @ _        z9    k        X^    *u S.               t    ,    1_S_ 
,,g ^_,,,l,2 vs@t___0.,_v___*vzlF_^|_* -. w_*__*X_ tn 6_nanz *._fisa._ a8. *t *.1 n_ *.n.






-                                                     ~~~~~~~~            ~~                 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~INDONESIA                            ...<I-:l
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALULOLDERS VIl PROJECT
KALIMANTAN TIMUR COMPONENT
PROJECT AS APPRAISED                                                                       PROJECTASIMPLEMEWED
-t pAC CWM
NoAD6                                                                                       cm XJ  19-A- Ma
# U0WMO =N WUA
vNYA owAl1VW O,u                                                                                      AH IMt
- ftWWK  loWIs 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~      ~      ~      on






OM) 24054
INDONESIA
I (                               NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VIl PROJECT
SULAWESI SELATAN COMPONENT                                                 04r
iSl-  11                   X                 z r-                                           X                   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-,
W"  ~I'.,                                                       I\0Et     S
PROJECT AS APPRAISED                                            PROJECT AS IMPLEMENTED
NUa AN ISMAM"
ILa An "                            X                          *@ LIUNIM AK"
_-;r _4, pUMm*AMmlme                                   .L A_ X
I.-                        ________~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                     . - TAw LM
- mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.i,.~~~~~~~. -~~~~~~ b a.~I          30    3                                                0     IC      
CILOYIM                                       I                  U~fo  LU    el






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER VII PROJECT
KALIMANTAN BARAT COMPONENT
0\   19  W ->tt  ,  ~PROJECT AS APPRAISED                                         1        
I*W                                   EZI /   t  [    /     NUCLEUS ESTATE AREAS  1- 
\LHOLDE9 MALAYSIA                                                            DEREAS
-  11t-4-                                                            0S  2 i  6  *            -            _       SMAW4OEtLAE
*                     __             ',  L~~~                KEC~~E1EES                          -   ROAROAD
1tV ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                 d.'\  -' ._  A.                                        . A.A.M.A 
0 1:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,E 19o



