Document of
The World IBank                          F  c
FOR OFFICIAL US]E ONLY
Report No. P-344'4-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$154.6 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
January 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency units   = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           = Rp 660
Rp 100            = US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M) = US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
BI       - Bank Indonesia
BRI      - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CDC      - Commonwealth Development Corporation (of the United Kingdom)
DGE      - Directorate General of Estates
GOI      - Government of Indonesia
JMO      - Joint Marketing Office
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
NES      - Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
PCC      - Provincial Coordinating Committee
PMU      - Project Management Unit
PNP      - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
PTP      - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
with limited liability
REPELITA - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74),
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
SBPN     - Advisory Unit to the Minister of Agriculture
SOE      - Statement of Expenditures
Team       Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects (within the
Khusus -   Directorate General of Estates)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    Three state-owned estate enterprises (PTP VI, PTP XII and
PNP XXVIII), and about 19,000 smallholders.
Amount:            $154.6 million equivalent, including capitalized front-
end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending:         Beginning from the date of the signing of Smallholder
Credit Agreements between, Bank Rakyat Indonesia and the
smallholders (which would be 3 years after planting
begins), loans to smallholders would be at an interest
rate of 10.5% per annum for 17 years, including a grace
period of 2 years for oil palm and 3 years for rubber.
Loans to the estates for estate development would be at
an interest rate of 13.57 per annum for 20 years
including a grace period of 8 years. The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would assist GOIs nucleus estates
and smallholders development program by establishing about
50,000 ha of tree crops (rubber and oil palm) in East and
West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces with the
public sector estates PTB' VI, PTP XII and PNP XXVIII as
implementing agents; in addition about 9,000 ha would be
cleared for smallholder houses, gardens, and food crops.
The project would immediately benefit some 19,000
smallholder families and provide full-time employment for
another 4,000 families wcrking for the estates. It would
also support strengthenirng of Directorate General of
Estates and other agencie!s associated with tree crops
development, marketing programs for smallholders,
consultancy services for the estates and in-service
training for their staff, and provide funds for start-up
activities of future NES projects. The project faces no
unusual risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                             Local   Foreign   Total
Costs /1:                                           ---- (US$ million)
Components
East Kalimantan                     60.9       69.2   130.1
West Kalimantan                     28.7       30.7    59.4
South Sulawesi                      24.8       30.4    55.2
Program support                      5.8       18.2    24.0
Base Cost                       120.2      148.5   268.7
Physical contingencies              13.8       15.6    29.4
Price contingencies                 39.8       29.6    69.4
Total Project Cost           173.8      193.7   367.5
Front-end fee on
Bank loan                         -          2.3      2.3
Total Financing Required   173.8        196.0   369.8
Financing
Plan:                                               Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million) ----
Bank                                -        154.6   154.6
CDC                                 -          30.0    30.0
GOI                                173.8        4.8   178.6
Export Credit                         -         6.6     6.6
Total                        173.8      196.0   369.8
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY        1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual         3.2    12.2    23.3    41.7    43.2    31.0
Cumulative    3.2    15.4    38.7    80.4   123.6   154.6
Rate of Return:   14%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4091-IND, dated January 3, 1983.
/1 The project is tax exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMiLLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equiva:Lent of $154.6 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders VII Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variabLe interest rate.  The proceeds of
the loan disbursed on smallholders development would be recovered through
Smallholder Credit Agreements between Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
individual smallholders. Signed three year3 after planting begins, the terms
of these Agreements would include an interest rate of 10.5% per annum and
amortization of 17 years, including a grace period of 2 years for oil palm and
3 years for rubber, with capitalization of interest accruing during those
grace periods. The proceeds of the loan relent to the estates for estate
development would be at an interest rate of 13.5% per annum for 20 years
including a grace period of 8 years. The frreign exchange risk will be borne
by the Government of Indonesia (GOI). In addition to the Bank loan, a loan of
$30 million equivalent would be provided by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation of the United Kingdom (CDC) to help finance part of the cost of
the project. The project would also involve about $7 million equivalent in
export credits.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human Development in the
Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km.  It now has a populatior of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, l1.rge timber potential and a
developed system of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated



- 2 -
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 4% p.a.  The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income countries./l
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures,
total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and foreign
private investment. However for the last decade the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign
exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, when the current account
enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil receipts also provide about 70% of
Central Government receipts and have helped finance the sustained increase in
demand via the budget. The pattern of expenditures has also helped foster
diversified growth: of particular note has been the support for agriculture,
through investment in infrastructure, support services and effective use of
subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This bore fruit in two successive
record rice harvests in 1980 and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has
also enjoyed a high growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but
here sectoral growth has been in spite of a more restrictive policy
environment and distorted incentives.
5.        In 1981-82 the macroeconomic resource position changed dramatically.
Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to a turnaround
in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a deficit of the
order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Owing to historically prudent debt
and reserve management, Indonesia does not face problems of the magnitude of
other oil exporters. However, baring a major recovery in oil prices, there
will be a need for short-run adjustment in the next two years. The burden of
adjustment will have to fall on import-intensive public expenditures, leading
to some rephasing of existing expenditure plans. This will lead to some
reduction in the growth rate in the short run. At a more fundamental level
the change in external prospects emphasized the need for substantial
structural change in the eighties. If the pace of development is to be
sustained the development of a strong and diversified nonoil production and
export base is essential.
/1 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an
increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./1 These improvements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of w!Aespread poverty.  Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is litt:le evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests,
it is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agri-
cultural incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops
have declined in the face of the international recession.
7.        In the future the availability oE productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accountad for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%, while the growth of services employment, from 24% of the
total in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremen-
tal employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sus-
tained by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be
a major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. Open unemployment, at about 2% in the
1971-80 period, is not yet a serious problem - it is concentrated amongst
secondary school leavers waiting for high income work; the key issues are of
widespread underemployment (seen in short working hours in some sectors) and
low wages. To tackle this a sustained rise in labor demand is crucial
through the maintenance of overall growth and the encouragement of labor-
intensive choice of techniques in production, especially in the industrial
sector.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic develop-
ment and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education
will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the
whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has
been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the level of the district
and below, but continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



- 4 -
necessary to raise standards. This will have to be complemented by a major
expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of
mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only
18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water/i
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the GOI is planning a program of large-scale natural
resource-based investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining. This will broaden the
industrial base, but will have very limited employment implications and is
very foreign-exchange intensive in the construction phase. Of greater
importance for both employment and exports is the encouragement of small-
and medium-scale private manufacturing through an improvement in the
economic environment. Over the last year the GOI has allowed the rupiah to
depreciate about 10% against the US dollar, thereby increasing incentives
for the production of traded goods. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a
general review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions
caused by the wide variations in rates of effective production. It has also
embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports,
including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports
procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates
(duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant
domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden,
especially in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly
developed financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these
constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to private
investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by over 60%,
and this followed a 40% increase in May 1980. This was a decisive step, but
domestic prices are still only about 50% of the average opportunity cost,
and price relativities between products diverge widely from those prevailing
on the international market. In addition a major program of investment is
planned, with public and private participaltion, in coal exploration and
development, exploitation of hydro and geo:hermal resources, and a sixfold
increase in electric power generation in the coming decade.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new and
the rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil tncomes, alternative sources of
domestic finance for investment will have to be found. This will require a
major increase in resource mobilization through the public sector, through a
combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and increased nonoil
taxes. In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic economy were only
6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out, compared with well
over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 budget represented a
significant effort to improve the situation, with a halving in the annual
level of the oil subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in followiag years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.



- 6 -
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in
the short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important
component of this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows.
Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $16 billion
at the end of 1981 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $11
billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal
source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance, to
the country. During the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually
rapid transformation in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy
reliance on official concessional loans to increasing use of private,
nonconcessional and variable interest loans in the second half of the
decade. In 1981 private source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of
public debt. The fact that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the
beginning of the 1980s, and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt,
are clear indicators of how far the country has progressed. However, the
debt servicing capacity depends on commodity production rather than a broad
industrial base, and this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to
developments in international markets. The implication is that debt utili-
zation should remain very prudent, and that there will be a continued
justification for official debt of long maturities in the 1980s. Present
projections indicate that Indonesia's financing requirements can be met with
the debt service ratio remaining close to 20% throughout the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       As of September 30, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 75 Bank loans amounting to $4,938.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia-s total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%. By the end of
1981, these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex
II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group suppor-
ted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have
been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural develop-
ment, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for



-- 7-
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved fron a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require beth effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level. The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive,
export-oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned
to follow this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, sector work
and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's
energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation
and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in
view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport
is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project
will focus on improving the working of the whole health care system at the
level of a specific province.
18.       For about the last two years the Eank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance, which deteriorated rapidly in
the late 1970s. The disbursement ratio (thE: ratio of actual disbursements
during the fiscal year to cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of
the fiscal year) declined from about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80. The
Bank-wide average was 21.31% in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Nigeria were 21.2% and 17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much
of this decline was merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
which took place during this period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% in the FY77-79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of
83%), it also reflected increasing implement:ation difficulties. Many of the
problems appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and



- 8 -
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have
been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project specific problems and work out corrective
measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in
September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint initia-
tives, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board considera-
tion at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as a
result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
in an increase in disbursements from $2040 mitttIorT La i -Y79 to $501.3 mil-
lion in FY82, implying a disbursement ratio of around 18%. While it is
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
19.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the third lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third and Fourth Transmi-
gration, Third Agriculture Training, Manpower/Construction and the
Provincial Health projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND TREE CROPS
21.        Objectives for the Agriculture Sector.  The agriculture sector is
of overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly 80%
of the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source
of income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households. GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural sectors
are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the rural



- 9 -
poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c)
expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree crops; and (d)
ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other
natural resources. In line with these objectives which the Bank supports,
the GOI's efforts to develop the agricultural sector are directed to various
areas including, inter alia, food crops, tree crops, area development and
transmigration.
22.       Food Crops.  Given the limited manpower and financial resources
GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians; rice production increased
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehab-
ilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the GOI rice intensifi-
cation schemes. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. during the
years 1974-77, in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to
restrictions on private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of
untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases. Since
then however, rice production has increased substantially, reaching an
estimated total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons. Output of secondary foodcrops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) grew at an average of
1.6% p.a. over the past decade. Over the decade, the gains in food crop
output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand, stimula-
ted by rising incomes. By the late 1970s, Indonesia became the world's
largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and
about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat imports reached 1.4 million tons
in 1978. However, if the significant increases in rice production recorded
during 1980 and 1981 can be maintained, Indonesia will greatly reduce its
dependence on the world rice market and approach food self-sufficiency. In
this connection rice imports in 1982 fell to only 0.6 million tons.
23.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated development projects
to address this problem.
24.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by management prob-
lems, G0I reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by
transferring implementation responsibility from the Directorate General of
Transmigration to the appropriate technical agencies and by creating coor-
dinative bodies at central, provincial and district levels, with a Junior



- 10 -
Minister of Transmigration in charge of coordination of the national pro-
gram. These measures need to be complemented by continued attention to a
variety of technical and policy questions some of which the Second
Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND/Credit 919-IND) is attempting to
address.
Tree Crops Sector
25.        Tree crops occupy about 45% (8.1 million ha) of total cropped land
(coconuts and rubber account for 65% of this), and generate about 43% of
total nonoil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber and
virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil palm
are grown primarily on estates. Indonesia is the world's second largest
producer of natural rubber after Malaysia, with a 1981 production of about
1 million tons and exports of 0.95 million tons. Rubber comprised 6% of
Indonesia's total agricultural GDP, 7% of export earnings and 16% of nonoil
exports in 1981, and provides full-time employment for two million people and
part-time employment for an additional 6-8 million. Smallholder production
accounts for about 80% and 90% of total area and output respectively; holdings
average about 1.5 ha, and yields 300 kg/ha. There is a well-established
estate rubber sector of 445,000 ha comprising government estates (193,000 ha),
private national estates (182,000 ha), and private foreign estates (70,000
ha). Producing 710,000 tons of palm oil and 130,000 tons of palm kernels in
1981, Indonesia is the world's second largest palm oil producer after
Malaysia. Palm oil is Indonesia's fourth largest agricultural export commo-
dity after timber, rubber and coffee, and comprises 2% of total agricultural
GDP and 7% of all nonoil export earnings. By 1981, about 320,000 ha were
planted under oil palm, having increased at about 9% p.a. since 1970. Public
sector estates account for about 70% of both the total area and production,
and private estates for most of the remainder. Smallholder area accounting
for about 1% of total area in 1979, is being increased rapidly under the
Nucleus Estates and Smallholder (NES) program (see below) and is expected to
reach 18% of total area by 1987. Faced with a growing domestic demand for
fats and oils and a concurrent declining domestic coconut oil production the
percentage of palm oil production exported fell from 85% in 1977 to 53% in
1981. Consequently, GOI is committed to rapidly expanding palm oil production
to offset imports of coconut oil, while also maintaining palm oil exports.
26.        Recognizing the importance of tree crops development in increasing
smallholder incomes and nonoil exports, and in keeping pace with domestic
demand for fats and edible oil, and utilization of unused land resources, GOI
embarked on an accelerated tree crop development plan with the initiation of
Repelita III targeting 2.4 million ha of new planting/replanting and rehabil-
itation mainly of coconuts, rubber and oil palm. To implement this plan, GOI
established a number of programs. One new approach, which is being supported
by the Bank-assisted NES projects is for Government-owned estate enterprises



- 11 -
(PTPs/PNPs/1) to plant and maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land
until the trees reach maturity, using farmers selected to be settlers (mainly
local smallholders and some transmigrants) as employees, and thereafter to
provide the settlers with inputs, extension services, and processing
facilities. GOI has also initiated national programs, backed with credit, to
assist geographically concentrated groups cf existing rubber and coconut
smallholders to plant, replant or rehabilitate themselves, with fairly
intensive support from Project Management tUnits (PMUs). This approach has
been applied to the Bank-assisted Smallholcer Rubber Development Project
(Credit 984-IND) and Smallholder Coconut Development Project (Loan 1898-IND).
However, while progress of externally assisted projects including those
assisted by the Bank has been generally satisfactory, overall plan
implementation so far has been less than satisfactory. Compared to the
implementation target of 700,000 ha plannecd to be completed by June 1981, only
about 360,000 ha (or 51%) have been realized, reflecting mainly organiza-
tional, administrative and manpower constraints.
27.       Sectoral Issues and Constraints.  Increasing GCI attention towards
the tree crops sector and lessons learnt from implementation of the various
projects has highlighted a number of sectoral issues which need to be
addressed to accelerate the pace of tree crops development. The major issues
and constraints relate to: (a) sectoral policy planning and implementation;
(b) manpower; (c) long-term investment program and its financing; and (d)
marketing. As a result of the increased fDcus on these broader issues by both
the Bank and GOI, the GOI has taken, or is in the process of, initiating
actions designed to overcome some of these constraints.
28.       Improving Sectoral Policy Planning and Implementation.  There are
two main issues relating to policy planning and implementation. Firstly,
policy coordination between the entities responsible for production in the
tree crop sector and the other related institutions with respect to issues
such as export policies and procedures, pricing of tree crop products marketed
domestically, and quality control and standardization, is weak. GOI is taking
steps to improve the institutional arrangements for policy coordination
including the establishment of interministerial councils for sugar and tree
crops, comprising Ministers of Agriculture, Finance, Trade and Cooperatives,
and Industry. The Sugar Council has already been set up and the Tree Crops
Council is also expected to be established shortly. Secondly, the planning
/1  PTP (Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan) and PNP (Persahaan Negara Perkebunan)
are state-owned estate enterprises which oversee estate development and
operations. In total there are presently 28 (26 PTPs and 2 PNPs) in
operation in Indonesia. The only significant difference between the two
organizations is in their legal strucl:ure; PTP has provisions for limited
liability. All subsequent references to PTPs in the report include the
the PNPs as well.



- 12 -
capacity needs strengthening, particularly in view of the massive size of the
GOI's long-term tree crops investment program. Measures to help achieve the
required improvements in the estate sector planning/coordination unit (SBPN)
and the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) within the Ministry of
Agriculture, are discussed in paras. 29 and 30 below.
29.       Improving Planning, Coordination and Monitoring of PTP Activities.
Currently there is an advisory unit to the MIinister of Agriculture, SBPN,
which is responsible for policy formulation, coordination of estate sector
investment planning and crop activities, estate financial administration and
control, and assisting PTPs through monitoring and inspection of estate
operation. Considering the importance of the estate sector to the economy
and the magnitude of GOI's investment in these estates, it is imperative that
the planning, coordination and monitoring of PTP's activities be of the
highest quality. The previous NES projects included steps to strenghten
SBPN. Through assistance provided under NES I (Loan 1499-IND), SBPN has made
progress in coordinating and assisting estates develop long range investment
plans. This aspect is being augmented further under NES VI (Loan 2126-IND)
with the provision of a financial expert and land use planner. However, much
more needs to be done in other important areas such as inspection services,
investment strategy, international marketing, manpower planning and technical
innovations related to production and processing. The project would provide
support in these areas. In addition to internal strengthening, complementary
action is needed to improve SBPN's weak organizational arrangement - a loosely
structured advisory body outside of the regular government structure and with
no formal relationship with the PTPs or DGE. To correct this weakness and
bring SBPN within the framework of the above Sugar and Tree Crops Councils, a
new regular government bureau is expected to be established in the Ministry of
Agriculture, by Fall 1983 to take over SBPN's functions. Most of SBPN's
current staff are expected to be transferred to this bureau. This change is
expected to take place in conjunction with the establishment of the Tree Crops
Council.
30.       Strengthening of DGE.  The DGE is responsible for smallholder tree
crop development and marketing assistance, regulating private estates and
overall sectoral planning (in coordination with SBPN). Previous Bank-assisted
projects have selectively assisted DGE in institution building. The increas-
ing attention being given to improving marketing of smallholder crops, forward
planning and analysis of development options and constraints, has highlighted
the following areas of priority for which assistance would be provided under
the proposed project: (a) DGE's planning, and smallholder marketing func-
tions; and (b) monitoring implementation of DGE's development projects and
evaluation of their long-term impact.
31.       Manpower Shortages.  The most immediate constraint on the rapid
expansion of the tree crops sector is the significant shortage of trained
and experienced staff in all agencies. The problem is compounded by the fact
that it is expected that 85% of President Directors and senior staff, 60% of



- 13 -
Directors and 50% of middle management in PTPs will retire by 1985. Given
these manpower constraints, it is urgent that an aggregate manpower program be
drawn up and implemented on a priority basis. The Bank's ongoing NES projects
have provided various training components including expansion/establishment of
Estate Training Institutes (LPPs) in Jogyakarta and Medan, and overseas
training. The proposed project will include technical assistance to advise on
manpower planning methods, evolve manpower planning and development programs
for the PTPs, and advise on the nature and extent of training required for PTP
staff. A proposed Third Agricultural Training Project currently being
appraised is also expected to focus on specialized sectoral training
requirements.
32.       Estate Sector Investment Program and Financing Plan.  The rapidly
expanding role of the PTPs in tree crops development has focussed attention on
the need for preparation of sound long-range plans and analysis of financing
options. Over the last two years SBPN, with the assistance of consultants
financed under NES I, has been guiding and assisting the PTPs in the
preparation of long range plans which include financial, managerial, technical
and manpower aspects. It is now expected that the individual and consolidated
draft plans will be finalized by early 1982 for GOI's internal review. Under
the proposed project, an agreement was reached with GOI that it will prepare a
long range (1984-1993) estate sector investment program (including programs
for each estate) and furnish such plan, by September 30, 1983, to the Bank for
review and comment (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       Given the massive size of the funding requirement for tree crops
investment, roughly estimated by DGE/SBPN at $10-15 billion for the decade,
the GOI's increasing budgetary constraints and the demands of other priority
social and economic programs, the estate sector must progressively reduce its
dependence on the budget and seek to mobil:ize resources by other means.
GOI/PTPs have initiated these efforts by successfully mobilizing export
credits for some of the tree crops processing facilities and the GOI has also
directed SBPN to actively seek joint ventures particularly in the processing
areas; however, much more needs to be done. While the financial situation of
the individual PTPs is uneven, there are some which are strong enough to
increase substantial commercial debt from both foreign and domestic sources.
The Bank will assist GOI to analyze and explore these various financing
possibilities through ongoing lending operations and sector work.
34.       Marketing.  Two areas require spacial attention:  one is the
marketing of products from PTPs and associated smallholders (NES projects),
the other relating to the marketing arrangements for smallholders outside the
NES projects. For the first, the products are currently marketed by the PTPs
themselves and through the Joint Marketing Office (JMO) which is financed and
operated by several PTPs and supervised by SBPN. However, JMO is limited in
its marketing role, for example, selling through tenders rather than aggressive
marketing. To address this, a proposal has been made by the PTPs that JMO be
transformed into a separate company, owned by all the PTPs. This company
would assist, advise and coordinate the marketing of PTP products, provide



- 14 -
market outlook services, establish overseas offices, and review issues related
to product quality, standardization and quality control. Under the proposed
project, technical assistance to review the present marketing arrangements
and recommend necessary improvements will be provided. With respect to the
second issue of the marketing for smallholders' products outside NES projects,
the DGE, in cooperation with DG Cooperatives, is preparing a pilot program for
cooperative formation and strengthening, covering a number of provinces and
crops with the primary emphasis on rubber. This program which would
supplement the present informal marketing system would also be supported under
the proposed project. Furthermore, we are currently reviewing the preliminary
findings of a rubber marketing study supported under the Smallholder Rubber
Development Project (Credit No. 984-IND) with the GOI with a view to
developing an appropriate action program.
35.       Bank Group Lending in the Tree Crops Sector.  In the tree crop
sectors including rubber, oil palm and coconut, the Bank Group has assisted
GOI with 13 projects. These include three Agricultural Estates Projects
(Credits 155, 194 and 319-IND); six NES projects (Loan 1499, 1604, 1751, 1835,
2007, and 2126-IND); three Smallholder Projects (Credits 358 and 984-IND and
Loan 1898-IND) and one Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan
1318-IND). The earlier Agricultural Estate projects assist only public sector
estates, while the later Transmigration and NES projects are primarily for
smallholders. In total, all these projects would plant, replant, grow from
immaturity to maturity, or rehabilitate some 314,000 ha of rubber, 159,500 ha
of oil palm, and 102,800 ha of coconuts. Out of this, the smallholders would
eventually operate some 53% of the rubber, 21% of the oil palm, and 95% of the
coconut areas. While most of these projects had slow start-ups and other
initial problems, their implementation is now generally satisfactory. The
most important general development has been the broadly based improvements in
estate performance - most project estates are now profitable. The project
performance audits for the completed Credits 155 and 194-IND rated both
projects successful with impressive economic rates of return equal to or above
those estimated during appraisal.
36.       The first three NES projects are sufficiently advanced to provide
guidance on design of new projects. Initially, delays in budget preparation
and receipt of funds by the nucleus estates, slowed implementation. To
resolve this, GOI has simplified financial procedures with automatic release
of funds for the first two financial quarters to the estates. Smallholder and
estate plantings are now on schedule, with the planting or rehabilitation of
about 66,300 ha of rubber, 13,000 ha of oil palm and 6,100 ha of coconuts
completed, representing about 42% of the total planting program. In earlier
projects, coordination problems between the central and provincial governments
and nucleus estates resulted in delays in construction of smallholder infra-
structure and the movement of smallholders to the project areas. At certain
locations this caused labor shortages for further project construction and
maintenance of tree crop plantings. To overcome this, NES IV (Loan 1835-IND)
initiated several changes in project design and organization, by giving
greater autonomy to the nucleus estates in designing and implementing the



- 15 -
smallholder components. The DGE establishe(d a special unit (Team Khusus) to
assist the nucleus estates. In addition, fcom NES IV onwards, all NES
projects contain funds to cover the costs oE preparatory work for succeeding
projects. These cover key start up activities such as nursery establishment,
access roads and laborer housing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.        One key difference between this and some earlier NES Projects is its
broader focus, enabling it to address and influence a greater range of issues
in the development of smallholder tree crops. The project content thus
reflects a further evolution of Bank support to the NES concept. In view also
of the good progress achieved so far in implementing the NES program and
enhancement of Team Khusus's capacity, the project includes one fully
appraised component and two subprojects for appraisal by Team Khusus and
subsequent approval by the Bank. This project was appraised in June 1982; the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 4091-IND is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington in November, 1982, and the Irdonesia delegation was led by
General Pang Soeparto, Director C-eneral of Estates.
Objectives and General Description
38.        This project would assist GOI's smallholder development program
using public sector estates to establish nucleus estate and smallholder tree
crops and infrastructure. Using the public estates (PTP VI, PTP XII, and
PNP XXVIII) the project would, over five years (1983-1988), establish some
29,200 ha of rubber and 21,000 ha of oil palm (12,500 ha for the estates and
37,700 ha for smallholders) and provide processing facilities, at the three
project sites in East Kalimantan, West Kal:imantan and South Sulawesi
provinces. It would resettle some 19,000 Families at these sites and provide
them with houses, food garden, water supply, village infrastructure and
initial subsistence allowance and inputs. The East Kalimantan component has
been appraised by the Bank/CDC appraisal team; West Kalimantan and South
Sulawesi components are being appraised by Team Khusus (para. 40). The major
project components are detailed below; for the unappraised components, the
estimates are tentative.
A. Tree Crops Development
(a) East Kalimantan (PTP VI):
(i) developing 14,200 ha of rubber, of which 2,500 ha would be
nucleus estate and 11,700 ha for about 5,850 smallholders;
(ii) developing 12,000 ha of oil palm, of which 3,000 ha would be
nucleus estate and 9,000 ha for about 4,500 smallholders;



- 16 -
(iii)  clearing about 5,175 ha for houses, gardens, and food crops;
and
(iv)  constructing a 800 ton/month rubber factory and 35 ton/hr
FFB (Fresh Fruit Bunches) palm oil factory for the estate.
(b)  W4est Kalimantan (PTP XII):
(i)  developing 15,000 ha of rubber, of which 3,000 ha would
be nucleus estate and 12,000 ha for about 6,000 smallholders;
(ii)  clearing about 3,000 ha for houses, gardens, and foodcrops; and
(iii)  constructing a 1,000 ton/month rubber factory for the estate.
(c) South Sulawesi (PNP XXVIII):
(i)  developing 9,000 ha of oil palm, of which 4,000 ha would be
nucleus estate and 5,000 ha for about 2,500 smallholders;
(ii)  clearing about 750 ha for houses, gardens, and food crops; and
(iii)  constructing a 30 ton/hour FFB palm oil factory for the
estate.
(d) provision, at all above sites of smallholder housing and water
supply, village infrastructure and roads, and initial subsistence
allowance, estate housing, buildings, roads and selected
infrastructure, and machinery and equipment.
B. Program Support and Technical Assistance
(a) Provision of:
(i)  consultant services to strengthen estate sector planning
capacity in improving PTPs operations and to enhance DGE's
planning, monitoring and evaluation activities to be finalized
upon SBPN's reorganization (para. 29);
(ii)  consultant services to PTP VI, PTP XII and PNP XXVIII to
strengthen implementation capacity; and
(iii)  funds for start-up activities for future Bank-assisted NES
projects, and for in-service training for staff of DGE and
participating estates.
(b)  support for DGE's pilot program for strengthening cooperatives to
enable them to increase the marketing position of smallholders
through quality improvements and better organized marketing,
including staff recruitment, training, technical assistance,
vehicles and minor equipment for training for smallholders.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
39.       The arrangements for project organization and management are similar
to those established and developed under previous NES projects. Under the
proposed project, DGE would have overall responsibility for project execution
and through Team Khusus would coordinate inplementation, providing assistance
to participating PTPs in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets,
financial administration, and technical, engineering and procurement guidance.
In addition, it would carry out preparation, appraisal, monitoring and
evaluation of projects. In order to strengthen Team Khusus' capabilities to
undertake these tasks, NES V and VI provided significant consultant services
in the following areas: financial analysis, agronomy, crop processing, land
resource evaluation, outline planning, civil engineering and procurement. The
consultants already in place have significantly increased Team Khusus'
capabilities in these area.
40.       Recognizing the increasing capabilities of Team Khusus and in line
with the Bank's longer-term objectives of transferring the major responsi-
bility for detailed appraisal to GOI agencies, this unit would assume an
additional responsibility under this project, namely appraisal of the West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi components. The requirements for appraisal and
report writing have been agreed by the Bank, CDC and Team Khusus. For these
two components, subloan appraisal reports prepared by Team Khusus, and
approved by all concerned GOI agencies, would be submitted to the Bank/CDC for
approval (only to the Bank in the case of the South Sulawesi component);
submission of such subloan appraisal reports satisfactory to the Bank would be
made a condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for the respective
components (Schedule 1, para. 4(d) through (g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Participating PTPs would, with the assistance of consultants where
necessary, be responsible'for all project work. However, since PNP XXVIII
is short of experienced technical and management staff, it would contract
out implementation to PNP VII during the project period; the latter has
extensive experience in oil palm development. During the project period
PNP XXVIII would recruit additional staff and deploy them alongside PNP VII
staff so as to receive on-the-job training and to enable PNP XXVIII to assume
full responsibility for operating the nucleus estate after the project period.
The first directors of the PTP VI, PTP XII, and PNP VII would be project
managers, who would appoint site managers for the individual sites. The
project managers, assisted by the Team Khusus, would prepare and submit annual
work programs and budgets by October 31 each year. The program would include
investments in health and education facil:ities.
42.       The nucleus estates would have :full authority to establish small-
holdings, infrastructure, roads and processing facilities. DGE would conclude
with the nucleus estates Smallholder DeveLopment Agreements which specify all
works to be carried out for tree crop development, processing and marketing
services as well as their responsibilitie; for land clearing for house and
food crop areas, the provision of initial subsistence funds, the support
services for food crops and needed infrastructure and various other



- 18 -
responsibilities of participating smallholders. The signing of Smallholder
Development Agreements satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement for the smallholder components of the project (Schedule 1, para.
4(b), (d) and (f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       The provincial governments of East and West Kalimantan and South
Sulawesi would provide health, education, social and food crops extension
services to the smallholders, including the construction of health and
education facilities through GOI's public works programs. In these provinces
Provincial Coordinating Committees (PCCs) would undertake construction of
GOI's public works programs facilities; select, together with the project
managers, participating smallholders; expedite the issuing of land use rights
and land titles to smallholders; and ensure adequate food crop extension
services. PCCs for East and West Kalimantan have been already established.
Project Costs
44.       Total estimated cost over 12 years of project implementation, i.e.
from establishing the first nurseries until the last blocks of trees planted
commence bearing, is $469 million. The proposed project would assist imple-
mentation over the five years (early 1983 to early 1988) during which period
$367.5 million (Rp 243 billion) is the estimated project cost, of which
$193.7 million (53%) is the foreign exchange component. Taxes are not
included due to the tax exempt status of the implementing agencies. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 15% for housing and infrastructure, and 10% for
field development, roads, services, equipment and supplies. Price contin-
gencies for domestic costs amount to 12% for 1983, and 10% for 1984-87; for
foreign exchange costs the contingencies are 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7%
for 1985 and 6% for 1986-87. Consultant service costs are based on recent
contracts for similar services in Indonesia; estimated direct and reimbursable
costs including basic salary, social costs, firm's overhead and fee, overseas
allowance, travel, housing and per diems are $15,000/man-month for foreign
consultants and $3,800/man-month for local consultants.
Project Financing
45.        The project's total financing requirements are $369.8 million
(including $2.3 million of capitalized front-end fee on Bank loan). The
proposed Bank loan would amount to $154.6 million including front end fee.
The Bank loan would finance 42% of the estimated total cost and 79% of the
foreign exchange cost for the five years of project implementation. The
proposed CDC loan of $30 million would finance 8% of the project's total cost
and 15% of foreign exchange costs. All of CDC funds would go towards the East
and West Kalimantan components. GOI would provide to the project implementa-
ting agencies Rp 118 billion ($178.6 million) out of annual budget appropria-
tions to meet all the local and some foreign ($4.8 million) costs of the
project, and would seek export credit of about Rp 4.4 billion ($6.6 million)
for processing machinery for rubber (PTP VI and PTP XII) and oil palm (PTP VI)
factories. In addition, GOI would finance all project costs ($101 million)
from year six to twelve.



- 19 -
46.        Funds Flow.  For smallholders development (except health facili-
ties and schools) the PTPs would submit an annual and quarterly work program
to BAPPENAS for its approval. The latter would undertake a detailed review
to ensure that costs and physical targets are realistic. After approval by
BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) would channel the funds to the PTPs in
quarterly disbursements in advance of exFenditures. Funds for the first two
quarters would be disbursed upon budget approval; for the subsequent quarters
funds would be disbursed after taking into account actual expenditures in
prior quarters and the program for upcoming quarter. Funds for school and
health facilities would be provided to the provincial government through the
GOI's public works program. For nucleus estate development the annual work
program and budget would be reviewed in the same manner as that for small-
holders. After the review, MOF and Bank Indonesia (BI) would provide to the
PTPs funds in quarterly tranches in accordance with the agreed work program.
They would make these funds available to the estates in form of loans or
equity (para. 49), either directly or through one of the state banks. The
Bank would reimburse the MOF and BI for i:he funds they make available to the
PTPs (para. 51). The MOF/BAPPENAS review procedures for the annual work
program and the quarterly progress, not only ensures that budgeted expendi-
tures are in line with established cost standards but also the flow of funds
from MOF/BI to PTPs are in line with actual expenditures by PTPs.
Onlending Terms and Conditions
47.       Under the NES program, the GOI has an established interest rate
policy of lending or onlending public funds to smallholders at 10.5% p.a., and
to public sector estates at 13.5% p.a. With inflation rates projected at 12%
for 1983, and falling to about 10% thereafter, the interest rate for the
estates would be positive in real terms while that for the smallholders would
be slightly negative. However, this interest rate is justified for the
smallholders since they are below the target poverty level which GOI wishes to
assist.
48.        Smallholder Loans.  Smallholders would repay part of their devel-
opment costs, that is for the credit items of tree crop planting, subsistence
payments, settler housing, farm tracks aad tree crop development overheads
(calculated as 10% of the tree crop establishment costs). They would not
repay the noncredit items of water supply, village roads and infrastructure,
education and health facilities, and project management (calculated as 5% of
the tree crop establishment costs and paid to the implementing estate). The
total costs for smallholder credit items would be divided into standardized
credit amounts for each smallholder. At the end of the third year when the
hak milik (land title giving the smallholders full ownership) are ready, the
smallholders would enter into a credit agreement with Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI). The agreements would be for 17 years, with two years of grace for oil
palm and three for rubber producers. Interest would be accrued and
capitalized during the grace period.



- 20 -
49.       Nucleus Estate Loans.  MOF and BI would make these funds available
to the estates under terms of a subsidiary loan agreement. For PTP VI nucleus
estate development, MOF would provide budget funds as a 16-year and Bank/CDC
funds as a 20-year loan, including eight years grace. Interest accruing
during the grace period would be capitalized. The repayment terms are based
on the cash flow of the nucleus estate and are reasonable considering the long
gestation period and the modest commodity price projections in the medium
term. Terms of the loans to PTP XII and PNP XXVIII are expected to be
generally similar to that for PTP VI, and would be specified in the subloan
appraisal reports. Preliminary analysis suggests that PNP XXVIII would
require further injection of equity in addition to equity provided under NES
VI (Loan No. 2126-IND) in view of its weak financial position. Consequently,
similar to the procedure followed under NES VI part of the funds would be
provided to PNP XXVIII in equity. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement
in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement for the respective estate development (Schedule 1, para. 4(c),
(e) and (g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
50.       Agricultural machinery, road construction equipment, certain agro-
chemicals (pesticides, herbicides, etc.) and rock phosphate, and some process-
ing equipment ($34 million) would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  Qualified domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the
c.i.f. cost or the import duty, whichever is lower. To the extent possible,
DGE would centrally procure road construction equipment and agricultural
machinery for the estates, minimizing the number of contracts. Exceptions to
ICB would include prudent shopping for start-up machinery for road construc-
tion up to the aggregate amount of $1.6 million in order to facilitate initial
implementation. Individual items of equipment, spare parts and supplies
costing less than $50,000 would also be procured through prudent shopping
based on at least three quotations. Urea purchase ($3.0 million) would be
made directly from P.T. PUSRI (or its authorized distributors), the country's
sole supplier whose price is considerably below world market levels. In
addition, other fertilizers ($8.0 million) most of which are imported would
also be procured from P.T. PUSRI, which handles fertilizer procurement and
distribution for most of GOI's fertilizer requirements. P.T. PUSRI bulk pro-
cures fertilizers using procedures broadly similar to ICB. Bank review has
indicated that fertilizer prices under these procurement procedures are
generally lower than those resulting from procurement under ongoing Bank
projects mainly because of the large quantities involved. In view of this and
the tremendous administrative advantages, the purchase of fertilizers from
P.T. PUSRI is considered justified. Agrochemicals and rock phosphate up to
the aggregate amount of $600,000 annually would be procured by each estate
following prudent shopping procedures. G3I would also procure processing
equipment for the rubber (PTP VI and PTP XII) and oil palm (PTP VI) factories
using export credit financing ($6.6 million) through efficient procedures
ensuring competitive prices. Civil works contracts for housing, infrastruc-
ture and processing facilities ($122 million) which are small (mostly about



- 21 -
$0.5 million and occasionally up to $2.0 million) and widely scattered in area
and time span and thus unlikely to attract international contractors, would be
awarded by local competitive bidding procedures, or by force account. GOI
would submit to the Bank for review, prior to tendering and award, documents
for contracts of $0.5 million or more. Contracts for consultants' services
($6 million) would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the uses
of consultants.
Disbursements
51.       For East and West Kalimantan, Bank and CDC funds would be disbursed
jointly. Expenditures on South Sulawesi and Program Support components would
be reimbursed solely by the Bank. Bank would reimburse as follows: (a) 34% of
the funds given quarterly by MOF (for Emallholder development) and MOF/BI (for
nucleus estate development) to the PTPs implementing the East and West
Kalimantan components and 46% for the South Sulawesi component; and (b) 100%
of cost for consultant services, training and start-up expenditures for future
Bank financed NES projects. Statement of Expenditures (SOE) would be used for
(a) above and for training costs and start-up expenditures. Detailed
documents supporting these statements would be retained by GOI and made
available for inspection and review by Bank and CDC supervision mission.
Accounts and Audits
52.       The participating PTPs would keep separate accounts for all invest-
ment costs relating to smallholder and nucleus estate development under the
project. Project accounts and SOEs would be audited annually. Audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank/CDC no later than six months after end of each
year.
Agricultural Production, Marketing and Prices
53.       The project would establish 50,200 ha of tree crops (29,200 ha
rubber and 21,000 ha oil palm), and clear 8,925 ha for smallholder houses,
gardens, and food crops. At full production the additional tree crop outputs
are expected to be 48,000 tons of rubber, 94,000 tons of palm oil and 16,000
tons of palm kernels. The expected adcLitional production of food crops, would
amount to about 39,000 tons. In the case of rubber and palm oil, the
smallholders would be required to sell sufficient production through the
nucleus estates to meet their debt repayments (para. 58). To ensure the
smallholders have a constant cash flow for their production, the nucleus
estates would pay them weekly during the first three harvesting periods. Food
crop production would be mainly for on-farm consumption, but surpluses of
peanuts and house garden products such as coffee or cloves should be easily
marketable in nearby towns.
54.       The PCCs, following procedures established under the earlier NES
projects would establish pricing committees, including the estate and
smallholder representatives, which would meet monthly to set the price for the
smallholder's produce, taking into account such factors as expenses of the
estate in collecting, transporting, processing and marketing of settler



- 22 -
production, a return on the estates processing facilities capital, the
importance of encouraging smallholders production and good quality of their
produce.
Benefits, Cost Recovery, and Risks /1
55.       Apart from the creation of physical assets, the project would pro-
vide a livelihood for 18,850 smallholder families and employment opportunities
for 4,000 estate worker families and for another 5,200 families working in
other sectors linked to the project.
56.       For the East Kalimantan Component, future incomes without the pro-
ject would range from $290 to $530, corresponding to $60 and $110, respec-
tively, per capita. With the project it is expected that the livelihood of
the smallholders involved would be much improved: family incomes would reach
at least $2,800 by year 10, $560 per capita. This would constitute a signifi-
cant improvement in the relative income position of these families, from about
10-15% of per-capita GNP at present ($520) to 75-90% of the estimated per
capita GNP in 1992 ($750). Additionally, an estimated 45% of the East
Kalimantan smallholders have present incomes below the critical consumption
level. The project would raise all their incomes above this level.
57.       The expected individual economic rates of return for East Kalimantan
component are: 17% (smallholder oil palm), 14% (smallholder rubber), 13%
(rubber estate), 12% (oil palm estate). Sensitivity analysis indicates that
the switching values (percent change in parameter value which would reduce ERR
to 10%) range from 14-25% for decline in benefits and 20-35% for rise in
costs. As these values indicate, the rates of return are most sensitive to
decrease in benefits i.e. decline in commodity prices and/or yields. Pro-
jected yields are realistic and based on actual experience in Indonesia and
elsewhere; a 14% drop in yields is unlikely. The price used for estimating
benefits from rubber and oil palm development are close to the lowest level,
for the 1950-80 period. While it is possible that during a short period of
time the prices may drop more than 14%, it is unlikely that average long term
prices would fall below those assumed. Considering that unit investment costs
for NES projects and operating costs for tree crop production are well estab-
lished, cost changes as large as those indicated above have low probability.
Moreover, PTP VI-s management should be able to minimize the possibility of
such adverse movements in costs or benefits.
58.       The base cost for settling a smallholder family in East Kalimantan
would be about $9,900 (oil palm) and $10,800 (rubber); of this about 79% are
credit items and repayable by smallholders (para. 48). The estates, following
/1 For the unappraised components the farm incomes, rates of return, base
costs for settling smallholders and cost recovery are expected to be
generally similar to those under East Kalimantan.



- 23 -
procedures established under the earlier NES projects, would recover the
smallholder credit items by partially retaining the sales revenues of the
crops they would process and market on their behalf. The pricing committees
(para. 54) would assist the estates in this regard. The estates would deduct
from the individual smallholder sales revenues an amount sufficient to repay
the annual loan installment. They would transfer all cost recovery to BRI
which would keep a record of all individual smallholder accounts. Besides
repaying all credit development items, smallholders would pay a land tax,
which village heads would collect and turn over to local and provincial
administrations for providing public services. This tax is a direct project
tax which contributes towards the operational costs of the governmental
agencies involved in the villages. Estimated cost recovery index (at 10%
discount rate) is about 40% for the East Kalimantan smallholder development.
59.       There are no unusual technical risks for the proposed project since
it is based on the experience of previous NES projects. The delegation of
more authority to nucleus estates and the appointment of the PTP first
director as project manager has proved to be an effective measure to improve
project management and expedite implementation. While PNP XXVIII is weak,
these shortcomings are being met through financial and technical support under
NES VI and the proposed project, and recruitment of additional staff. There
are also risks in ensuring repayment for smallholder investments - it is
important that smallholder crops be channelled through the relevant nucleus
estates. Again the strengthening of the estates should help. On balance, the
risks associated with the proposed project are judged acceptable.
Environmental Aspects
60.       Most of the areas earmarked for development under the proposed
project are presently covered by secondary forest and coarse grass and
consequently are not used to their potential. Soil conservation methods would
prevent soil erosion, and leguminous cover crops, proper fertilizer applica-
tions and crop rotation would enhance soil fertility. The small quantities of
herbicides and pesticides to be used would not lead to significant adverse
consequences for the environment. Processing facilities would follow the
appropriate standards for effluent treatment to remove potential environmental
and health hazards.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. A special condition of the effectiveness is that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of CDC loan agreement shall have
been fulfilled. Other special conditions of disbursement against individual



- 24 -
project components are: (i) Approval of subloan appraisal reports of the
unappraised components by the Bank; (ii) Signing of Smallholder Development
Agreements between the DGE and the nucleus estates; and (iii) Signing of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the GOI and the individual estates.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 5, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 25-                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)' a
TOTAL            1919.3                                            MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      316.5                   1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.0        140.0            430.0             261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           124.7        121.9            225.4             448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       94680.0    116143.0          1'6557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6         17.1             20.2              17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                   216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                     376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             49.3         60.5             74.6             158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          355.9        378.8            452.4             355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               40.7         44.0             40.1              36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                               56.2         53.4             56.9              59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         3.1          2.5              3.1               3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1          2.0              2.3               2.0                     2.3
URBAN                                    3.7          3.6              4.0               3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.8         40.7             35.3              29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.5         17.2             13.3              11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.8          2.7              2.2               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          0.2             27.1              19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)                93.0        102.0            113.0             108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         86.3         93.9            101.7/c            97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                38.2         42.4             44.8/c            56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              5.6          6.2              6.67T            20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           22.9         16.8             11.3              10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          41.2         47.3             53.1              57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                149.9        120.9             92.7              89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..          3.0             12.0/d            32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                                10.0             35.07             70.7                    51.9
RURAL                                     ..          1.0              6.o7T            22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..         12.0             15.0/e            18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                     ..         50.0             60.0o7;           72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                     ..          4.0              5.0cT             4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               46778.7      26498.5          13674.6            3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           4517.0       7672.8           8871.6            4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 1360.3       1644.6           1609.9/d          1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                  251.8           ..            699.0/7i          301.3                   651.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..           3166.8/d          5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..          ..             22.4/e              ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    4.4          4.8
URBAN                                    4.9          5.3
RURAL                                    4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..          1.5
URBAN                                     ..          1.6
RURAL                                     ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     . .
URBAN                                     ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..               ..



- 26 -                                   ME  
-26-                         ~~~ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0             22.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)        20.4        22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                38.8         28.9             37.2              37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.1             17.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0        56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.1         2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2.        22.0             41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              8.6               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      11.0           ..             17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.8          . .             O.87              3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.8         30.9             29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0        66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.0         10.0             12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7        35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                      54.2        49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             20.9              23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENY RATIO                     1.2         1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..             49.47/d
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..              6.6/ad
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             14.47..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUER POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0                ..                  178.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..             98.0                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0              43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                    ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



-27 -                                                             M4NEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONt OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   Although the data are dee teas  ..ue  geeal   ugd the meet autborlte to  .od re1iab s, it should also be noted that they mayro  beInte-
naioaly  -op-rblo heuu          ofte  ar   f  trdrded-            ein~itiore aod t-ttes used.by liftfreo   tueetin  ol raigh  data.  IThe  tr  act  ors
th.s    _ uset1 to dacteth   orders of eatitrde., andidt.t -drrt, cod tbara_teete rtrain  ajue di: f                          .er.eroe...
T'he  seet  grup re(   the saetotyeoro   h    ujotuayr    0   tueogtp oath   ,-.shaI higher acreage learn  ehIr the t "uIr getu
of the sub jett totrotry  (totepe  for   ''Nigh  roome   Oil footers  geou  ohgr  "idl rs  Noth Afric  ed'Middle  sEtW' Is abaser. haasao.ere
srouleleffloitiet) .  It the re ferenr  gr-p dsr   he:rrae  aeppulat.ia  neightad arlthi..e.. .ee .for s                         ndtar teI      e r  ny ea
najoriy at the'    Iu.rat  a grouphsda.ta foe that tndta -r .  alertthe cnrsga  f tures                             othudrarederee.ds on.. the soilbltty' of data
and Istret uttf_em, ratir  ua  he.rtiaId to   Ieiog aneae  at  reirdi-eo  eaao.ther   Tttet anerge  are only ...eful intoapa-tg the n-iu  at
are lad i,tator e       ta ls  enan  tha c.urt1y ard  -nfee-t  grops.
gAdE Itbou...rd mq.hs.)                                                                              pooato    re        eiltal Nd  - tota.1  urhar  ard rua.       -Ppuaio.t1a
tota  - Total  -ufe-  area  -oerialtg lead are  tad irlonfre-er; 1g79 deta.                           -rba. at drnral          dtnf by their  -ep-ti-n tumb.rofa hospital bede,
E.ialual-ttiate of agritn1tona1 area oad tepmyorerily or Persareadtly                        anilabli 10 puhlia en  rIret  gereell atd aprollied bhp. aladre
for traps, p--tore ,maker and kitbend  gerdeo.ol          t  lie fal11-; 1979 data.                tabtlitai.    ___eotr H.Nopital  ar  esrablishtoert  perane-ly otaffed
by at leas  ate physgolan    Estehltiteoth        roidr  p inlpellyou..tI-
lIP  th IyITATIff  -GNP pet I,tap.  tio          t.o.r.ant markat prit-e. oa1-                   dial tr-  are ro  ioludrd.  Rurl    eitlt h           amster,totlds health
oultre  by name . t -ar-o  method a- Oorld tonh  (ta 1970-NI0 hasim); 1960 .ad   edia.l otet  a  pera-tetly etaffed by a yhyaioltr  lbnt by 
1970, ord 19N0 data.                                                                                  -didlta    _iseit_t  nus,aflar..   ho  otter A I,~t-ptei                    tos
datila   a td peonide A imrd rneo     -eit   alile    PoF aat
thErIl  1MtfMPfTIO  ytER CaupITA - a-nal t-o.mueption of rmerial.n.r. g me                              tutl po ..e. urba  hoapilels inolufo trOt   ieripeh/tenerel  hoepitaa
and Iignltn. perr....au      ... n Iue  ge ard hydra-, _nu1ea  ad ga-e -n1 e:ro-                     and rur.  hoapitala.  lotAl or rural hnepitala and  edatal and  -ateriry
IIriolty) to hiltgrannf t-l q1        nlrtper -epita; 1967, 1970, and 1979                           uraet.-   Speoiltieed hasyitela  are inoloded only noderaa
data,                                                                                              Adeitaiora oar NoapitelSed  - fTal.. nubrt of enin   totdiathargee
hf... bitelal fiieded by the ounber of heda.
PlyULAT1ym AND VTAfI, STAhTISOTIC
Tatel Populatiot, Mid-ferr (thouta..faf - un of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 19807                    OOThnG
data.                                                                                            An-rta  hiet  fhueod(e o  pee houehId) -talurban, und rrl
lehat Poynlati-t lye-an  of  -otll - tatlo  or ottr o   total poplotlot;                             A bonea.hol.taaaofaioyo                     Adindua anb   there linn   quarters
"itnet fainirtona of orb.... arata n      f aftaI_t    _ oarlity of data                      aod theIr mutt stla.  A b-oarr  or lodger nay on nay ro  te in-ladd to
meaonre;190., 1971, and u1S d0 at.                                                        t  ha.bon ebold for  -lrttIitarlynanr
Poroleoto  Profrtrlna                                                     ,bnA rIrto erof pret  prtnsttal   ran, and rurral---a                       agt no-
yooatnIn yeut 7171 - Currant- popullueonpr   bti eaar ehid or 1900                           hr of pt-ao- yer ro n10aluhoerrrloontdnnetttl
total yapultlan It ageutd art andthalt nrnaity _ad  erity totl.                      mrlnii,, trpotu.o- ly.  helat   o bu.drtot-a~ot                    rtor   n
Pr-yot-o  petntrotl tot laorta1lty rturi   -o'opele of three I-eola ntn                           -n-oy,id pIdt_
Ito  lufa anpetanoyiat boot                 ih iormtattury     p.ye  t- ita  moose            Atra...to  Iltotrit t  (routo ed-ellto              -total, urban, end runt  -
lrnel  _ ad tamle lfteyraoy tulotoa775yta Thyr-Tortttudrltg ub  elorilyunlioli  q-atter  at
E,forte_i ity  rae ano butt thro  le,rlartt.t. Id IoiaI                                 nof tota, orbat  and rotal1 d-ellantnryrre..tit_)y
tarilttyoo--ditgo  I~toone I-nelat.dp-ofa-ily ylanihtgye,fr-omao.
luotfonot,yyna tbor  -noog-d oor o  etn  tine   -boitatiora of nortuatey                    OtUlOtIlt
utd IItl Iy   _rat ft tarytjdroo  p_ ......                                                Ad luntd totolleoa    ato
ttatl-nrty                 IhoatooTatntontrnya       eoithr    -an  gro-th note                    P,us-Y atboal - tota, naa rd freula - Crue  total, male tf f.inal
thehbirthrtaorqtlttbdearbratr                          ll  h.    Sotalortaaa rottrr-rr-11-tntfallootothe'ilarlrorlon  poro"rIenfraen
_alnato.atato .  ThIn In  thla-el only after f-tllty eate  deolios  to ,pyrieay -ho-l-agr Popna,.,m    to lyaooe   hldrr  ated 0-11
tbo rrylaretentlanrlof ooiroro..proda-too-tot,obrhrat   gerrol                                     yorrnnotdjooted forldifor.... trr0'theofIP,i-Irefutr.ior;tor
ofmmtreyluot   Ir_rl  e _toy.T thatat.on.y  Muyleto..            loe..                        too irtmut   nlneta1  drdootioo enrolmen  may  -o--ed 101 p-ro..
-a-totrd on th, buli  of the yrojottudtaa  attlra of th                    oltt                     itt   tore yoylla ar  belot or abate alt offiolal soboo1lea..
1,tnohryarl.....a.dote.rateotofloa heoftfertliuty  ruretor'eylar-                                Seo-d-ryn-bool- -t 1o,roretldtaf-le -C.-toytdue                  bt-;a.rtordary
met   lanal.                                                                                       aduoat.ntsqot"a  a't   alaat four yearr  oypreprt.. nI ry-I  Itea-ti-ot
Trottea loay  ooutt IIn reathol - The yrar than   -tai on-y  -nolttnpr -te  E.ieorl,toait                                               or teathot  _irlnlot ntototttP,p',,
tIeml   eeebd.                                                                          oaoly of 12 to 17 terr  oi a 0; -noer pondenor onore  ar. gnral
Pert     k.m.-nMid-y.ratppoborti- perqut   uiloneterllllbrthea-t()of                              oatnlenrlto(aon    f Aeadryy -Ooo-io...aI uhtairtloon.
toalara   196.  1971 and `9779 data.                                                        inolude ttnot         Iditrlal,1  or other Pro troa  o-o  oPerate  jodaped-
Pern     I.u.aEr-uto ..oraulaod-C.Ioaytoadtaltntforagi                      1-ualad                rntlyonadaporteerta  o -aaootdayiottt
only;. 1961, 1t70 and 1979 data.                                                               Papil-atr  raI  -p nr,ad erood-or- T-tr   trd-ent  anro11d In
,oroJa"lo  Oa  torooor  7patottj-hildrro  17-10 ye.... .. kotlt-ago  (11-                            primaryTcd  rtoodary  Tattle  .ittded by   trr  or ..anbe-  in tha
hta yer ...   drtird7t  rearon....TanP__ot-,a0etoteld-y-aepoyo-                                     -rrtopttdiog lrotla.
lation   16,  1 911,W~  and b19Y00data.'Aotltr                                                                      t r-,  root) - LIterte  do          Ta1llatred  an-I.d erltr7
G-ualoloth Noto ytet-oa -                .uoolrotthr-tt              of totlaint-              aopfonta              at  ttldtltooultuoutdl   Yae,natdo'ra
Pouato   roth  at R trrot   -na -urol groorh r-ta  or u-b-t p-                             ClOtlOfylPtN
latlont far 1951-hy, 19t0-70I..jd 1910-80.                                                       PunntrTrtTatlnad ptlto)-Pta0rtr  topnlt
_ode trth hate,  Iyet tho....nd)   A- ooa  Iufe hirtha yrr thbo...td of old-poor                     turn -aeaoi lean then aab Ieton~; rotd loaabtoo,hernaa
potubn    tI   970. and 1980 data.                                                       eiITPatliorPerlrai
yapolatton; iO.196        ,an0   lt  data                                                          b-ofo-rto0nralpol   pr-hon.a.d ofI popubotint; ea TdI                        n
Iroaaayrouoton lor-bte'geo ohroldeutb,ertaatarlllborao  iioened reori_ri oonrtaud In year.he errrintattfradi.
bar oot-e  rryIR-dut- yp-ld I'f th. -rp-leno-epyro .rt              ....-..tttic lot-              attra  In effeot; data ol           net yaara a.      o  bat-r,arablnnlitte
tal later;uoly Ill       finle-yeraa r  ardetin, 190,197,  aled 190.                               none-  oorti- abolunhed lttlg
yalilyPlun1_    ggoootIt,guAoo1ltho.....dn)-A.ttua -tobrrof a_or_r                                 TV bRorue-  (perethootttdyo.poltti )-TVrroeuevret    oheroadoltttt
of birth-ro.troI droonuIt   uyoa   fntatlt-yIeonopoos                                              geeral pu.,btt  par thoo-ntod popo_attoti-roolden               ut Ir Teor.liara
yontlplrtitr-lert   Perttfarenmr-pratgo    rerd                                               IrrountiteunI   yanhrettroriotfl                           ena
amtof oIal-lebarhot be  115-byaa   b   n  but-oootro    deteno                                trt ertrotton(a   hbr.tdypo l)-   ontbaarrl-
all   _rrudeoet        sa Egtno                                                                   aletioanof "deilyEd rora   toteteatta_tpeporo"dafilrdttperlodiall
pobli-atto  denoted petnrlly to r-rrdoi gora  nen. f  to tonid-red
yln D  eTTOTlIlO                                                                                       to hr 'ul"it it aryae  at leant foot oilmeu                l
l.ode  of rood P-odo-iotye  tyn    199-71_l0)  - Itdro ot yet  -ppita untua                        CInemaan_         otnao  y          It   a  na-atdo  th   nta   f
podotion of alT fon.     oeoh n    ytdo               ---ro r   trod rold t.eed and               ltikdter  told dorlot th  yea.-    ondl-g -lo-tontodrin-trl
Ia00aadar Year bonit.  Commdttotoooat primary goode  (g. togar-o                               ardnabilrolr--
il-ntodof1         1~ onld Trrredibleantooot-tonoritt            T.,.-fftrrled
to   r  ldad).  gArS at    -rdootto  of auth ono-tr  On buetootIORl FRCE
natita  aorta gof prodoner prIor  -ialt; 1961-hI.  1971, erd 1901 data.                          nora  Labor yFo  Ithota..odol  - To---noll.  .t..or......l. itIoditg
Parr-tpitt lupyly ofolor           (...... t of tqoreran)-           p-taed trom                     armd  oroo..and ot-ployrd hot toolodlr  booa-i-o, etudant, eto.
ma.r0  oTnuoalert or ne  food  -opyttIn ua blal   irtotypet opotartrot-rpouto  of all otto.  DIrt'lol, t.o   oa ,rlooto-                                                  r      r
Per day.  o-ollble  -opllet tonriar lonatt r_ uti              I, nprt  loot                       o    -wnaprahir; 1960.  197  and 1911 lato-
roport,  ado  re   nnoh              a   opla   tld   onllr,nr                                     yamall  (orr-ott   - Fr...lI  Ilobo  forte atprrr ro  total labor fort.
Iooile   ed  ofo   roaot.ad lo-aa  to di-tribtto-    toi-dAruutoafrrat.-tbo.orro  tatoot   foraty,hor-                                                             at
eato       -Ia  a oatd by PAl bor  ot d phyiolrlool. trddn for on-ma-tt-                            f-uableg at prrterrre ofttall  labor foro; 1761.  197  tad 1hOlIdata
oTty ond healr  oor_ldrrjogron'iroIe.t..        te_  ratr    body ergto         geld-ary _2yrror-) - ladbor flttr  it 0110.tttr                                 lt   atfotto
aodn..dinrtolot          oobyoluooof  .atdalortl   yr- _rfornto_                 t                   andrl-rrioity . ratn ....                yrtr.t..   ot-tl labolor...
hoonthold lrnel;   At_-T.190  nod 1977 dat.                                                          19601. 1971 rod 19.0 data.d
-roaitr-tpyly ot yroro- Traa  r  drY) - to-a oi ro  of Par  -oya-                                yanrtliotyto led   r lyrrt-    tota-I. , sae           f-dt 1aryrroyoloo
rat foply)todyro day.  Notnoplyol.fo-d Indrf edaleabrr.   It-                               urtlnTtyreta .t.t..oop-tdltto-tl,  a1r-a-d fasala labnlorf-
foe aul -o-trr- rat-blIinbd by USlA  -roodo for  -itot                                pe_ttgno   oa.1  naland   tanal-a popolot ton of all a ea  erouoy
allonuotra otblaraaaoftooalPtotruoooodoyoodlytrtaoofanlaolan~          ~       ~~~d 9161,lT7I,atdl19ldet-.   Tla..a.   bra edont'parotiupatiooru-te
ueda.rroee...thaotho..r  .dlg...ro.to l 0rotiutaod                                                 f-naf  rfatorroret         -notloaror
aolna1 p-otrl  at an  --rr for Ob,norld.  ytPrord by  A rIOn  h Ib'Trd                          Etoo.osut Ioyodro-y 'Ttin -RltIn ot population  -ondr  IT ad 65 rod
aorld Peod toroy; 1961-t5, 01970  rd 1971 data,                                                    to the  .totl 1oborfoor
Pero..IId...a... .rrltrryrmtroto,tdnoltr1"-Poteoioa-"I'yoftfoddel-
oiod fro  -tlnal  and PIar  to grum  Pat day; 0961-65, l97t and 1971 drta.                     ItCiltE DISOTTItIT-
Child Tagro 1-)trt          -lt  (par  _blna,d(  - AO..tal d-othn par      - thot d it             Pr-rotge of Priy-at  Ilono  (both 10 n-h oaf AlofT  - ORorl-d by  -th-nt
aoEttoolty_         r.tth    idrro t'itagr  gErry,Tforna-r -otlotinog                 -              frret t,r h-rtd20l yr n.....rrno2 lparte-n ,adyoo--a40 yr-trt
ortet data donued fro  tote tablat; 1961, 1970 and l98t data.o   onTla
OfAlTfoP00ER1Y 0107T tfROIOP
tTflorttntaor t-t(year..(-ltouetturf year  of life  -nini.g                                        Thrftl"Tont.....ratnrrynoIortrnn ..oroo-fpo-rtyTot
atbIrth; 1901, 1970 and 1900 daa.ad rbotldlre i.totrpratd rioToollrrtao rio.
otut-  pr-ritboonndnapr tTn... 191, - lA ....I d            dnoha.Itbtol...po...ttytttoedlrorh---                                     T- tbe Lo ltondrrl    o-hthrn                   1
uoonnr   tatI.e Ortr er rorofo yoyolalol-)  toa,-bo  , u.d -ttl - to-                                 totr     _ltolyodrqo-tr dirt poi..        ota  non-tod  rquotoain  -to
bar of Ppola  (tota.ora                ...nod    h..rora.. ...  I.boerruhrorat .fr                  toda  a
eatert-oyylyllntlold-uttantrda.-tfuon-tort  ooo-tre-trtt.'tI tunoa Edtarlmeed yRl-oln  P-er                                                               ..ttn   trr(ytrro lob-rban  -ndror1l
of  th.r fr..  otr.t   popolutuoro                 ..d - Onoraaroyo-11n                  pRnoa   Itom  o  t Iotor.   Orba  lanl   todood  ro   .... rorl
,erootidera  af hri. to    .. ot Itfrnnoabp  ao,iltI of thor  toter. In  rota  orte               a           iiara    Pouato   tlot -b-lot  Porb-y l oner i re.    Tron -d
hnabrrofyr_ylr  (tom,ohn    nrrl    rrot    ortdnoua
oIl "l    f ttrrtrrlr    poytot o_ o.  to-eta dtnpotul to  t-obdo
Poytlatto  per Pbyltto-P lto   flo-drd by  -ontro ofponotgpbrt-                                                                            ittETo  to,d To-o1 Otto oto-uor
nttnoalfrfroardt                   -h-oT    oolentYlonr.                                                                           _tonolol-uyntoadrrortioaoo               -rnnt
Poelrortr T-ittlgPlnnPptaltdo-tlad   y robar.of,p--titt                                                                                           tY 1900
Znalea-d fonaTrg-rd-o otroraa,aalnrottra I, r_ottonrnro_d



ANNEX I
-28-                                              Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (5)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
c:rrent prices)                        Actual                         Estimate            Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2       5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794           10.1     5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                        48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                   15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3            1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                    21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (5)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Cross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4          7.5         5.0          5.0
Agriculture                  54      47      32     26      22      17          2.7          4.1          4.1         2.5         3.5
industry                     14      18     34      42      44      46         5.2          12.0         9.7          5.5         6.5
Services                     32      35      35     33      36      36         4.8           9.7         9.0          6.5         5.0
Consumption                  91      89      79     70      74      74          4.1          8.4         8.9          5.0         5.0
Gross investment              8      14      20     22      26      27          4.8         18.3        11.7          6.0         4.5
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23      31     23      18          3.6          9.2         8.7         -2.4         1.8
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2          22.1        14.0          2.5         3.5
Gross national savings        8       9      17      25     25      22          6.1         23.1        14.4          4.8         5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7            10.1            10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0             8.4             9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                  -2.3            +1.6            +7.1          +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0            10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5             3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75              1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                  4.5             2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.9             16.0                15.0              7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                  3.1             4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                 0.30             0.2             0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
lb Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 3, 1983



- 29 -
population        147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:   US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EX iRNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                   1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982       1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   20,295    20,698   24,125   27,829   42,761   50,179
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   16,541        16,550   19,033   21,772   32,824   38,308
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    3,754         4,148    5,092    6,057    9,937   11,871
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,541   -22,683  -23,507  -25,358  -34,514  -41,856
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,572    -5,053   -4,682   -4,706   -6,591   -7,164
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -15,340   -15,340  -16,466  -18,561  -25,521  -32,022
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586     -659      -975   -2,629    -2,290   -2,359   -2,091   -2,402   -2,670
3.  Resource balance                        175     -140    3,459    3,596   -3,246    -1,985           618    2,470    8,248    7,816
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,852    -4,482   -5,210   -6,267   -9,141  -10,719
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514     -772      -819   -1,118    -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -2,605   -2,836
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501     -489      -386   -2,734    -3,163   -3,593   -4,314   -6,536   -7,883
5.  Capital grants                          66        46        52        76   -7,099    -6,467   -4,591   -3,798         -894.7 -2,904
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467          100        100       100       100       100      100
7.  Direct foreign investment              285       271       217       140       276        350       450       600      800    1,000
8.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    5,180         5,922    6,384    6,473    6,234    7,091
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329       -953   -1,376    -1,720   -2,042   -2,440   -4,052   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       657       536    1,583    3,803       4,202    4,342    4,033    2,182        1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,454    1,274         1,897       456     -202      -210       -22
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736    1,645           -82     -757      -733     1,977       -45
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    4,709         4,791    5,548    6,282   11,180   12,148
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4      4.3       5.6       6.9       3.7        3.8       4.0       4.1       5.3       4.6
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                 -         -    6,906   10,787    8,509        7,091    7,348    8,082   12,980   13,948
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1      6.7         5.6      5.3       5.3       6.2       5.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,53f    2,356
Concessional Loans                        442       484       433       675       802
Bilateral                               381       448       399       631       729
IDA                                      49        29        30        42       68
Other                                    12         6         5                   5
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,85E    1,552
Official export credits                 218       271        61        2'       154
IBRD                                    191       168       199       331       106
Other multilateral                       16       1         46        52        86
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,45(    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,S82         15,529
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482.    5,783
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772       1,974
Interest                              441       514       771      81'i      973
Payments as % exports Je               11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0      9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                     6.3       7.6       6.6       8.4      9.1
Official - source                       5.4       4.6       5.0       5.()      7.8
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5      18.7      19.1      19.(     15.6
Official - source                      23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                      10.4       8.6      11.1      10.(      10.7
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal vear basis.
7F  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7T  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7   At end of period.                                                                                    East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                          January 3, 1983



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  559.3   491.5             -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -       7.8         1.4
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -      16.5         7.5
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -      16.0         1.9
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension              -      30.0         1.6
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0     -           7.6
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension.         21.5     -           1.3
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0     -           4.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0     -          19.8
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.0     -           6.2
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.0     -           4.7
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.0     -           2.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0     -           8.0
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0         -           3.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.5     -           7.0
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0     -           9.3
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.0     -          31.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0     -           4.5
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0     -           7.7
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0     -          36.3
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0     -           6.7
1472     1977   Second Population                          24.5     -          12.8
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0     -          25.4
1513     1978   Seventh Power                              94.0     -          33.9
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                -      40.0         9.2
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0     -         115.2
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0     -          17.5
827     1978   Rural Credit                                -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II          65.0     -          51.8
869     1979   Polytechnic                                 -      49.0        36.9



ANNEX II
- 31 -                     Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.0      -          52.0
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.0      -          28.5
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -       10.0         9.2
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.0      -          35.8
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.0      -          22.7
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2      -          83.5
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0      -          10.9
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0        30.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -          89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -         104.1
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          28.9
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0        10.3
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          69.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0        36.3
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0        33.2
996    1980   National Agriculture Extensior. II          -       42.0        40.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0      -          95.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & SmallholderE IV          42.0      -          35.8
1840    1980   National Agricultural ResearchL            35.0      -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0        28.1
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0      -          34.5
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0      -         224.9
1.898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development           46.0      -          43.9
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0      -          44.1
1.950    1981   Tenth Power                              250.0      -         205.5
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0      -          19.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0      -          41.3
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholdei: V         161.0      -         155.7
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          53.3
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0      -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0      -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0     -         167.7
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0      -         100.0
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0      -          80.0
:2102    1982   Second Textbook                           25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -          37.0
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          70.0
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.0          -          66.0
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1      -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering /1            25.0      -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Paper and Pul. /1              5.5      -           5.5
/1  Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              4,611.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -162.60   -5.93
Total now outstanding                         4,449.00  925.87
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,447.97  925.87
Total undisbursed                             2,813.9   250.20   3,064.10
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -      1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11,1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0      53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Narket        4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                           118.8      18.0      136.8
Less; sold or repaid and cancelled                 78.6       5.7       84.3
Total held by IFC                                  40.2      12.3       52.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   30.82         0.3       31.12



- 34 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                   10-14
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007, 2126)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   14-16
Rural Development (946)                                                         16
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                   16-17
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                  17-20
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079 and 2153)                    20-22
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                       22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                        22-23
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                  23-24
Nutrition (1373)                                                               24
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                           24-25
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                 25
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                        25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     26-27
Ports (1337)                                                                   27
Tourism (479)                                                                     27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                       28-29
Water Supply (1709)                                                               29
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-, 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514  Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:  $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by fDur years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate, mostly because of delays. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 94% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delayE the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been corupleted and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has
mobilized additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction
supervision at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the
Madiun works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were 40% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 80% completed, but
land development is lagging. Feasibility studies of the ten small to medium
irrigation systems have been completed. The Situing Stage II system studies
and designs are completed, and construction was financed under Ln. 2118-IND
(Irrigation XVI). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 78% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. The GOI has decided to delay



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
construction of the Batutegi Dam to serve the Way Sekamping system since other
dams on Java appear of higher priority. Downstream works will therefore be
restricted until dam construction starts to ensure an adequate rate of return.
The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and construction
financed in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were 35% appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subpro ect, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setbaclk of nine months in the rest.
A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for tertiary
design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The project is
currently estimated to be completed by mid .984, a delay of 18 months compared
to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is expected to be
completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years. It is expected
that there will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the
tertiaries for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND)
which did not cater for the higher intensity of canals now adopted in all
systems. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 53% of appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the Cisedane
irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and studies of
drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation areas; tidal
and swamp lands development for about 350,COO ha in the Lalang and Mesuji
areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and detailed
designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang Agung of
S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased to 205,800
ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads improvement
are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985; a delay of
over two years over appraisal estimate. Studies are mostly completed; the
remaining are expected to be finalized by 1.982. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 40% of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training work, on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and const-uction of a hydraulic control



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the
implementing agency should consider using the savings for procurement of
additional operation and maintenance equipment such as dredgers, dozers,
draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be useful for
emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes damage
during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that $6-8
million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project. The
list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 59% of appraisal
estimate.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. Works in the Madiun area
and the tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 72% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes (a) completion of Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation system
for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and nature reserve on an area of about
100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy services and training;
and studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of
the Toraut headworks and the first 2 Km of the main canal which commenced in
January 1981 were greatly delayed but the contractor has now agreed to work
to a revised program to be completed by May/June 1983. Award of two ICB
contracts is behind appraisal schedule by 15-18 months. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1985 compared to March 1984 in
the appraisal estimate. GOI has commenced implementing the "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. The Bank
will review progress in late 1982 before finally agreeing with the GOI
proposal to finance US$1.1 million from the credit for the expanded National
Park as against US$0.7 million provided for the Nature Reserve. Four
studies included in the project should be completed by early 1983, present
progress is about 50%. Institutional support program wi-l continue up to
June 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were aDout 60% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                      Page 10 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals %as awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2118  Sixteenth Irrigation:  $37 Iillion Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (Da'RD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East. Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigat:'on systems serving about 50,000
ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha; upgrade
operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already
rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400  Smallholder and Private Es:ate Tea:  $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha private
estates (PTPs) tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of extension
staff and tea growers, studies for marketiag, diversification and BRI



40                     AlNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. The project still
suffers from weak management, loan collection is deteriorating and many
scattered borrowers make loan servicing difficult. Disbursement at the end
of June 1982 were about 70% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a slow start which resulted in extension of the Closing Date
to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress since
mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982.  In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites.  Rubber development is
almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
About 800 families have been settled to date and an estimted 3,000
of the proposed 30,000 families will be settled by the end of the next fiscal
year. Sufficient land has been mapped in Jambi province for 20,000 families
but half of these sites have been excluded from the project because they lie
in production forests.   No other areas in Jambi province are likely to be
suitable for large scale settlement and land has been identified in South
Sumatra for 10,000 families. Because of the importance of land identifica-
tion, about $50 million has been allocated from the Transmigration II
project for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program. Delays in
settlement and rehabilitation components have led to slow disbursement and
cost overruns and much remains to be done to ensure sustainable food crop
production. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 1.7% of
appraisal estimate. Agencies are better informed about the project than
they were previously and are working conscientiously. To circumvent
problems of land shortage and increasing implementation delays: (a)
settlement targets should be reduced to 20,000 families, (b) about
one-fourth of project funds should be allocated to mapping and consultancy
services; and (c) current disbursement rates should be maintained. To speed
implementation, the size of land clearing contracts should be reduced and
contracts should be tendered for each site as it is prepared.
Recommendations have also been made which



- 41 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
would permit action on Singkut rehabilitation and simplify procurement. To
improve incomes, actions should be taken to reinforce agricultural services
and introduce tree crops into existing and new communities. To accomplish
these objectives changes in the loan documents would be necessary.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the current planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler
houses and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus
estates have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber,
3,700 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets
for rubber planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. However, as t:here were start-up delays in
some smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be
completed on schedule, the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1984.
Di-sbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 58% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastruc:ure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target.  Action has been taken to speed up the
lagging operations and the project is expected to be mostly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 hia replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will
probably have to be extended to June 30, 1985. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 30% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PIP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 55% of
appraisal estimate.



- 42 -                ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 66%
of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Delays in road construction are
affecting project implementation and supervision, and measures to speed up
progress are under review. Training of field staff and smallholders will be
kept strictly practical; visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a
trainer/coordinator position at provincial level but working at the Project
Management Unit level is being considered. The creation of an internal audit
unit and timely recruitment of staff to deal with financial matters is
urgently required. Four studies, including a feasibility study, for an
eventual second project are nearing completion and after review by GOI will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. There are no major problems
with this project, apart from the requirement to strengthen management and
the seriously delayed procurement of vehicles. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 101% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under
the project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are gener-
ally not satisfactory. Problems relate to lack of control of project manage-
ment in Head Office, Provincial Offices (PO) and Coconut Working Centers
(CWC) regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating
smallholders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance
standards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow
release of project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application
and disbursements. To improve control of field operations some restructur-
ing of the project in its scope and management structure is needed, by
reducing the project area and reorganizing the PO/CWC management system.
GOI agrees in principle with this recommendation and proposes to take
necessary action. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 19% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Loatn No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber, oil
pa:Lm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan
and Bengkulu provinces with public sector esta':es as implementing agents. The
project has made a good start including the nurseries establishment, initial
planting for the smallholders in West Java, construction of some roads,
estates offices and smallholders' houses. Disjursements at the end of June
1982 were about 115% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was declared effective on July 23, 1982. The project
will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders development program
by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku provinces with public sector
estates as implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and ExtEnsion I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will close on December 11, 1982. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) were behind
schedule and are now almost complete. Most of of the field and workshop
equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and contracts for
laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland vegetables) and for
Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agricultural information
centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension have been constructed, furnished and equipped. Two additional
centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction and will have to be financed
from another project after closing of this project. Extension materials are
besing produced and distributed from the completed AICs. Loan proceeds are
expected to be almost fully disbursed at the 2losing of the project.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The targetted programs for construction, equipment procurement and
training have been achieved. Some additional activities in these fields
which are included in the follow-up project, the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) are currently being undertaken. These are
expected to be completed within the revised closing date for the Loan of
December 31, 1982. Overall the project continues to make satisfactory
progress.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Substantial progess has been made with the construction and reha-
bilitation program for the Rural Extension Centers and the Training and
Visits System is progressively gaining more strength. Contact farmers and
their associated farmers groups are responding to the two-weekly meetings
with the field extension workers. Staff shortages in the field extension
workers and extension subject matter specialists cadres and shortages of
motor cycles for field staff are continuing problems; also, the strengthen-
ing of training in extension packages in nonrice crops needs early actions.
The project unit is aware of these deficiencies and steps are expected to be
taken to address the problems; although the staff shortfall may continue
into the next fiscal year. A unified extension system embracing other
subsectors has not yet begun to function although keen interest in this
approach is evident in some Provinces and could form the basis for
developing a workable system. Overall, the project is making satisfactory
progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment (AARD)
for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected. A contract for consultancy services has been executed between AARD
and the International Agricultural Development service.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided on and land



- 45 -                 ANNEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents Eor the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly. The first sapervision mission has been
recently fielded.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946  Yogyakarta Rural Development:  $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance discerned
during the October 1981 supervision has continued. Activity targets are now
being substantially met with the exception of the Small Scale Industries (SSI)
and Village Health Components. Firm recommendations have been given to
improve performance of these two components which should yield early,
positive results. If, however, results are not forthcoming, firm steps should
be taken either to terminate them or simplify their objectives and scope.
Project performance rating has been upgraded to 2.2.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical ass-istance to strengthen GOI's small
credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account for about a
third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory experience with
this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a nationwide SSE develop-
ment project which is supported by the Second Small Enterprise Development
Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit componen: is fully disbursed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development, training in term
lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services, the
project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension of the
project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is rapidly
catching up.



- 46
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being implemented. Small
credit lending financed under the project continues to expand rapidly. Annual
loan approvals of over $1 billion in 1981 reached about 12-14% of known
small-scale enterprises throughout the country. In addition to technical
assistance designed to strengthen banks' small credit operations, the project
also provides for industrial extension services under the Directorate General
of Small-Scale Industries (Ministry of Industry). The loan became effective
on October 16, 1981 and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics is near completion.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.
The first batch of students was enrolled in the six polytechnics in 1982.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Three study contracts have been awarded and two are being awarded.
Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution.  The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind



- 47 -                     ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI.  After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984.  A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved.  Disbursements at
the end of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Ef fective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88%
of the civil works program has been complet:ed. Phase I is complete and 90%
of the construction in Phase II is finishec.  Overall, 50% of furniture and
equipment has been procured and delivered. The first cycle of teacher
training has been completed and the second cycle is in process with all
training expected to be concluded by October 1982. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 52% of appraisal estimate due principally to lags
in disbursement for civil works and delays in procurement of books,
equipment, and furniture.  It is expected lthat disbursements will accelerate
during the coming months.  Despite delays and the current low disbursement
level, it is expected that the project will be completed on time.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date:  November 4, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1933
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces.  Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicLes, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and reLated technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school
education) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are
already on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting
appraisal targets and production and distribution of pretested learning
materials is accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule;
local staff have replaced foreign consultaats.  Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 57% of appraisal estimnate and are expected to continue
to accelerate in the next few months.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were
540% of the appraisal estimate. The FAO technical assistance team is now
in place and fellowship utilization remains up to schedule. Implementation
of a tracer study of agricultural secondary school graduates was planned to
begin in June/July 1982.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia has been
completed, and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected to
be completed by early 1983. The initiation of technical assistance
provisions are about eighteen months behind schedule. A contract is being
negotiated with an external agency to administer the program of fellowships
and visiting professors. Two contracts were signed with the British Council
for the training of university administrators and textbook editors. Work is
in progress to establish a Management Information System and a Monitoring
Evaluation System in the Directorate General of Higher Education and in each
project university. There have been no indications to suggest that project
costs will be other than estimated at appraisal. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 27% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development



- 49 -                 ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
activities; a Center for Curriculum Developmelnt, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at high:Ly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, the::efore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design.
Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21 months. Commercial
operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected early in 1984. Construc-
tion of the associated transmission lines is progressing satisfactorily. The
feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired thermal power station site has
progressed to the point of selection of a suitable site. Contracts for the
studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed, and work is
progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June, 1982 were about
60% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September ].981. However, progress since then
has improved and the estimated delay has not: increased. The main causes of
the delay of one year were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy
performance of the local contractor for piling work.  Most contract awards
have now been made and the commissioning da-:e for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is
expected to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in July
1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.



- 50 -                   ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. s:x
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and the
transmission lines is satisfactory. Disbursement at the end of June were
about 24% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encountered
problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels. River diver-
sion planned for end-May 1982 was not achieved. However, steps have been
taken to divert the river in December 1982 and so modify the later
construction program as to ensure that original dam construction targets are
met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with 3-6 months delays,
some of which are expected to be recovered. No cost overruns are expected.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 42% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $50 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Contracts valued at $100 million have been evaluated by PLN and are presently
under review by GOI. PLN is planning to issue, in December 1982, another
invitation to bid for the balance of the distribution equipment estimated
at $20 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. Thus far no delays have
occurred which would affect the project completion date. The consultants are
now fully mobilized. Soil investigation and geological work is ongoing at
the mine site. The bids for the main mining equipment have been received.
The turnkey contract for the Tarahan terminal were signed and procurement of
the ship is in progress. During the initial startup moderate problems have
been noted in respect to project management and concerns have arisen with



ANNEX II
- 51 -                      Page 22 of 29 pages
respect to the procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the
Bank. These matters received close attention from the first supervision
mission and they will remain a focus of subsequent supervision missions.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South Sumatra and other promising areas in
Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its agencies with
a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and feasibility/
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it to establish
investment priorities and define policies for its short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Credit was for the developmEnt of an industrial estate at the
eastern border of Jakarta. Land acquisition difficulties have persisted
since project inception and have eventually resulted in a substantial project
delay. Consequently, disbursement of the Credit has been slow, and the
Closing Date of the Credit has been extencLed to December 31, 1982 to enable
the remaining funds to be used for the development of an export processing
zone and related studies. As of September 15, 1982, a total of $8.9 million
has been disbursed. Full disbursement of the Credit is expected by the new
closing date.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Mill:ion Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO continues to make significant progress in both operations
and institutional developments: its operations in terms of new loan and
equity investment approvals more than dou'Mled compared to 1979; its financial
position and performance recorded a marked improvement; and the portfolio
quality showed signs of reduced loan arrears in relation to the portfolio.
Moreover, BAPINDO continued to make progress in implementing the agreed
Action Program of 1977 and other programs for further strengthening its



- 52 -                        ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
organization and increasing its project promotion activities as agreed during
the last loan negotiations in April 1979. BAPINDO put into effect on April 1,
1981 a General Improvement Program involving a number of organizational
reforms and staff training and deployment. This was done in order to enable
BAPINDO to play a larger role in promoting the country's industrial develop-
ment as well as increasing its operational capabilities. Commitments and
disbursements under the loan, which were slow at the beginning have
accelerated during the past year and the loan may be disbursed on schedule.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472  Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 4, 1977; Closing Date:  April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
Training and population education are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1982. The research components -- the contraceptive raw materials study
and the community incentive scheme -- will not be completed before the loan
closing date and an extension is likely to be requested by the Government.
A loan saving of $7.0 million has been reallocated for the purchase of
equipment in support of project activities and procurement is expected to be
completed by December 1982. A further savings of $3.3 million is antici-
pated and the Government intends to request Bank approval for reallocation.
Only about $11.2 million, or 48%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A
sizeable proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date,
but not the full loan amount.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on the health components of this project, particularly
training, has been very good. Training is ahead of the appraisal schedule
and the construction of health center annexes is underway. Population
components have, however, made less than satisfactory progress. While the
procurement of vehicles and audio-visual equipment for mobile information
units is in process, the implementation of civil works has been delayed
considerably. As a result of recent GOI's efforts, this component is
beginning to make some progress. A sizeable number of contracts are
expected to be awarded by December 1982 and construction should start in
early 1983. Population education has also been delayed pending decisions on
the recommendations of an evaluation which was completed in July; a report
on this was submitted to the Government in August. A detailed program for



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
training teachers was also required before funds could be released. A
recent Bank mission has reveiwed these issues with the concerned agencies
and it is expected that implementation will start soon. Because of delays
in physical implementation, disbursement is lagging behind appraisal
estimates.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The pace of project implementat,on has increased considerably,
with the construction of the laboratory at the Nutrition Academy now completed
and the construction of the Nutrition Training Center currently underway
and is expected to be completed by end of 1982. Contracts for unprocured
equipment have been awarded and delivery is expected to be completed in early
1983. More than 80% of project fellowships and over 60% of consultancy months
have either been utilized or committed. The project was evaluated by an
independent team in July/August, the findings of which are quite positive.
Bank staff have reviewed the findings with Government and made pertinent
observations. Physical progress during the past twelve months has been faster
than ever before. This rapid progress is reflected in a sharp increase in the
level of cumulative disbursement from $4.3 million as of August 31, 1981 to
$8.3 million by August 31, 1982. A further saving of $800,000 has been
reallocated from the category vehicles and equipment to consultants services,
fellowships and salaries of local experts for the staff of the Project
Director. The project is expected to be zompleted by December 1982 and no
further extension in closing date date will be required.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is coripleted, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed



- 54-                  ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July
1981 and is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The project is about 25% completed compared
to 70% scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project
objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments



- 55 -                  ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work is
now underway on nearly all project componenl:s, and there is still a reasonable
chance of completing the project with a total delay of only one year. The
Provincial Departments of Public Works progr-ams of support worKs were just
started in January 1982 with mobilization o: consultants and after road
maintenance equipment had been ordered. $6,8 million of the loan has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $35 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The bid evaluation report is being reviewed by
the Government. Land acquisition has been completed up to and including
negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is underway.
Negotiations are about to begin with consultants to provide technical assist-
ance to the Indonesia toll road corporation, P. T. Jasa Marga.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural rcad infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and supporting
a rural road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian
provinces. The project also contains components for training and technical
assistance. Implementation of the various project components is still at an
early stage. Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and
maintenance equipment and bid evaluation has been completed for about half of
the items.  Consultants are now being mobi:ized to provide technical
assistance to the district public works agencies and to assist the Directorate
General of Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is de:Signed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbarsed and the balance of



-56-                     ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
funds for technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allo-
cated. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.
All of the operations under the loan appear to have been carried out satis-
factorily.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All works on the infrastructures and the amenity core at Nusa Dua
were completed in June 1982. The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport
and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and opened for traffic in
December 1980. The hotel training school was completed in July 1979 and has
been in operation since then. The preparation of possible participation by
the Bali Tourism Development Corporation in hotel investment utilizing the
uncommitted portion of the credit is expected to be finalized by the end of
September 1982. The market for tourism to Bali has been good and in-
ternational standard hotels in Bali have been achieving high occupancies. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing
well for completion in March 1983. The construction of a second hotel (250
rooms) by Anchol Group at Nusa Dua has just started. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.



- 57 -                   ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program is now complete with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future projects preparation and
utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently agreed upon. To
facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in December 1981,
extended the loan Closing Date from DecembE.r 31, 1981 to June 30, 1983.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 85% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: ',54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 la) -- with the KIP coverage in each
city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded. Also
included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management program
(SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-lrainage improvements in Surabaya.
The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its actual coverage
exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP implementation is
progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in Jakarta due to earlier
start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya drainage component is in the
construction stage which is somewhat beset with land acquisition problems (for
canal dredging schemes) warranting local government's more intensive
participation and an increased allocation of funds for the program. The
overall project is expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected
dated of December 31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about
59% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Dat:e: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bankc's assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide pro-
vincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with a
coverage in each city representing about L5 to 33% of total KIP area to be up-
graded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core housing



- 58--                  ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of about
11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs comprising of
solid waste improvement, and improved water supply are also included in one
of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering 125 cities
will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning, land regis-
tration and valuation programs. The developoment of the housing and mortgage
financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project. Technical
assistance for project management, training and feasibility studies to various
urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The sites and services pro-
gram is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays in the implementation
of the KIP programs have been overcome and the progress of these programs
should significantly improve with the consultants currently being appointed.
The first phase of the urban mapping contracts covering some 45 cities will
commence in October 1982. Technical assistance programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 35% of
appraisal estimate.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and procurement is in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is currently underway. The
organizational and management training for the WEs has been underway since
September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



- 59 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECTS
Supplementary Projecl: Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the projecl: :1 year
(b)  Agency which prepared the projecl : Team Khusus with Bank and
consultant assistance
(c)  First submission to the Bank         :  1981
(d) First Bank mission to identify the
project                            : November 1981
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                            : June 1982
(f)  Date of negotiations                    November 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness        : May 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation A^tions
Start-up funds were provided in the NES VI project (Loan No. 2126-
IND) to help ensure early implementation of the NES VII project.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Special conditions of disbursement against individual project
components are:
(i) Approval of subloan appraisal reports of unappraised compo-
nents by the Bank (para. 40);
(ii) Signing of Smallholder Development Agreements between the DGE
and the nucleus estates (para. 42); and
(iii) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the GOI and the
individual estates (para. 49).
(b) A special condition of effectiveness is fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of CDC loan agreement
(para. 61).



I



lBRD M637
Ir 00 nn                                                                                                                                                       l5bo                    OC.T/R/>  1982
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES
AND
SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
AREA FOR FUTURE
EAST  KALIMANTAN  COMPONENT                                                         EATENSIOS                                                                    L-g 8,l0
PROJECT BOUNDARY
To /ARSOPOR                                                                                             /  /,
NUCLEUS ESTATE  AREAS
SMALLHOLDER  AREAS                                               LE GelaRg.
RUBBER FACTORY                                                 |*> g                                                                                   
OIL PALM  FACTORY.
PROPOSED WHARF SITE
ALTERNATIVE WHARF SITE
__    ROADS
w         R VERS                                                                                                g
--      PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                            Ii'                          '     .          ,. 
aRE,, F,    FL 7/RE 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                           /ETEN SIN
O 1     2        3                                                                     S                        ."
MILES
KILOMETERS
> XB  ; IfR X S--' ni;-
5    1   AFA 3   FUUR4 E
EXTENSION                                              // 
_   _  (  H               ,/4!7E~~RNt,h7X F sS1                      ,/ 
j   r             ,,gJ t0   X                                                                                                  ]~~~~~~0 '
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S8oe  T3<                                                               \  r"', 
T" T,~~~~~~"
AREA TOJ FUTUR                                                    AII4                                             BR
ER TE/S/ON                            \A' \                                                                                                   051EXTENSION
A  TIRE WRPT S/FEMALAYSIA
T ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     T n,R0sBOFOOR                                                                              )                 -       m    drstn)                   5XC 
T,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    ,             "      o
TO ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     T TmORBRErOBOIt near                                              t 
BAl   ,               Urm   t t   hSd
,K          R PIR
honnder es o_s cs Shs mas h av mow on ehe F m of e WorTl  Ta0o/booqoI                                                              8           Foo"rI     I
0004e 6/7IR3 0 W0,OPOO,IORIO&IOIR  0 000010000                                                                                                                           K,o, ntfemto,~   ,(t   V
oR 00000c 00,0  00  00h t 00  000 00s  _0000R0  0   00000                                                                                                                                   1/      0






IBRD 16638
:l__9b3       ,. *7/                                               11000'                                       AUGUST 1982
I...  0.   /                                                    INDONESIA
t   Pemangkat_ *.*                              NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
West Kalimantan Component
NUCLEUS ESTATE AREA
-              '.                                       _'_, ,_  f SMALLHOLDER AREA
ROADS
1o00,                                       -<  --   RIVERS                                                                                          1000-
-<                                    -   -   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Singk w4ng                                                                              01                       03
KILOMETERS _____                     20_         30
MLE                      10                  20
1  t         A    i'  <''LLf   W=5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Bengkay'g
i      -Segi~~Ianta 
(        !, ~~Monterad          ,! o
Sungairaya
0030'                                                                                                                                                0030'-
8                   Xfvlen~~~~~                       ~      ~~~~~~~~Illnjlin                                - '-
Sosok
Mempawah  T-ho
~~ - .   /                      ~~~Mandor 
Sungaipen"    'ux                                                  110000
SOUTH
:  N 2  \<      C-CHINA           BRUNEI y\'-'
SEA
I'MA LAYSIA
East Kahmantan  \
L oooo                                                                                     0~00Q -    jir
This hr-o Coo boos pr-pa-ed by l,                   /S. Lntan                           k
|rid 8-nk s staff ecissicely for                       fO/.t n
rho conreniesre of the readers of
rho repot to mb/h it ,o oft-oh,d                                                                Are~ 0q l/rap
T hednmtt;si saad 8Cd 1,i                                         P  N\TIAN)k NK,Ar'a) 
bTo eda-  o h -no   -o this    -p d   h                                        \                                Central  Kalimantan  /k
do not impl/, on the prtn othe                I                                                              I                              likpapa
World Bank aid -t affiiateo any             (I.                                                I        I                               t
odmerset on tho legal Vtatus of                                                   hi                                            / South \
any territory orI  nedor-e--t                                                                                                   K  isma Tan
- or a.roptoe of such bo-ndareso
/7~ ~                                .                       sarais          H



I



IBRD 16639
120:                                               12045'                         AUGUST 1982
Th,s -ap has bee prep-rd by the Wactd Bask' a. Itaf -a--,ey for th cnvn,nc
. ~~~ _ / o~~A                      f rhe readiers of the re port tr ash oh It,Is attanches T7'e edalsn,a,n  used ash the ovnec
affieta.- as rordg-est as the /eg  statu,, fay t-r try a d-rse as asr r asoent a
SULAWESI                                     20t                                                                                                                                    21
,gTckomanino
I         'jvt             /                              < ~~~~~~~~~~r7Bonebone          -         ,>{~~~~~~~~~~~Lnmbarsse Bagia JWotu
2'30'~~~~~~ oml                                                                                                                                                                       2'30_-7',    Sl-ut
\.-~o Soi-uniAue
2045-
2'45'                                   7     0<                                        op agi,,                                             ~/ .24'
INDONESIA
Mantalinga  NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
South Sulawesi Component
PROJECT AREAS
NUCLEUS ESTATE AREA
SMALLHOLDER  ESTATE AREA
--3700'            ~             >ao70p                                                                                               ROADS                                                    3'001]
1                         ~~~~~~POSSIBLE WHA,RF
j                        ~~~~~~JETTY
RIVERS
01 0                       20                30
MILES                                 '
0 l-  O                      10                            20
1201 5                                                                                                10120'0  12045



