Document of
The World Bank                            PLE COFY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4091-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
January 3, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =  Rupiahs (Rp) 660
Rp 100         =  US$0.152
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,520
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)             =   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                   =   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)   =   0.386 square miles
I hectare (ha)                =   2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)          =   35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                   =   0.264 gallons (USA)
1 kilogram (kg)               =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)            =   2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                    =  Body of traditional law
Alang-alang             =  (Imperata cylindrica), a coarse grass which
establishes after slash and burn operations
Bupati                  =  District Chief
Hak Pakai              =  Land title giving the right to use to exploit
Hak Milik               =  Land title giving full ownership to the land
Kabupaten               =  District
Kecamatan               =  Subdistrict
Marga                   =  Community group under Adat law
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA       =  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS      =  Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan National -
National Development Planning Agency
BI            =  Bank Indonesia
BRI           =  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
DGA           =  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
DGE           =  Directorate General of Estates
FFB           =  Fresh fruit bunches
GOI           =  Government of Indonesia
INPRES        =  A Rural Infrastructure Development Program
IPEDA         =  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land tax
JMO           =  Joint Marketing Office
LPP           =  Estates Training Institute
MOA           = Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           =  Ministry of Finance
NES           =  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Project
PCC              Provincial Coordinating Committee
PNP           =  Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan - State-owned estate
enterprise
PTP           =  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan = State-owned
enterprise with limited liability
REPEFITA I    =  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
REPE'LITA II   =  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974175-1978/79)
REPELITA III  =  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
RSSI          =  Ribbed smoked sheet (rubber) Grade 1
SBPN          =  Staff Bina Perusahaan Negara - Advisory Unit to
Minister of Agriculture on matters relating to
PTP/PNPs
SIR           =  Standard Indonesia Rubber
SRDPU         =  Smallholder Rubber Development Project Unit
TK            =  Team Khusus-Special Unit in DGE working on foreign
assisted project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND AND PROJECT AREA .1..  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
General   .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .  .    .  .                1 .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .  I
Tree Crops Sector.                                                           1
Sectoral Constraints and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . .                3
Project Area Characteristics.                                                8
Implementing Estates .10
Project Formulation and Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . .               11
2.  THE PROJECT    ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               13
Tree Crops Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              13
Agricultural Aspects .14
Infrastructural Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              15
Technical Assistance and Program Support  . . . . . . . . .              16
Institutional Strengthening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              16
Quality Improvement of Smallholder Production . . . . . .              18
Implementation Status, Financial and Procurement Matters. .              19
Implementation Status .19
Cost Estimates .19
Project Financing .21
Orr-Lending Terms and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              24
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              25
Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              26
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              26
3.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS   . . . . . . . . .              27
General    .  .  .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .  27
Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .               27
Settlement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               29
4.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES. . . . .               30
Agricultural Production .30
Market Prospects and Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               30
Pricing   .  .   .    .  .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .  .    .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .    .   .  31



Page No.
5.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Benefits ... .... .. 32
Financial Analysis - Smallholders  .   .               . .  .    32
Financial Analysis - Implementing PTPs . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Project Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .  36
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . .    37
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
2.1  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
5.1  East Kalimantan Smallholder Farm Income . . . . . . . . . .    33
5.2  Sensitivity Analysis - East Kalimantan Component  . . . . .    36
ANNEXES
1.  Table 1:  NES Projects:  Progress of Tree Crops Plantings
Table 2:  Project Area Rainfall
2.  Table 1:  Project Planting Program
Table 2:  Project Processing Factories - Installed Capacity
Table 3:  East Kalimantan Processing Factories - Implementation Schedule
Table 4:  Consulting Services - Requirements and Implementation Schedule
Table 5:  Project Cost Estimates
Table 6:  Project Financing Plan
Table 7:  Schedule of Disbursement
3.  Table 1:  Tree Crop Yields and Production
Table 2:  Commodity and Input Prices
Table 3:  Development Costs per Smallholder family
Table 4:  Farm Budget - Without Project
Table 5:  Farm Budget - With Project
Table 6:  Cost Recovery
table 7:  PTP VI - Income Statement
Table 8:  PTP VI - Cash Flow
Table 9:  Smallholders' Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Streams
Table 10: Estates' Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Streams
4. Related Documents in Project File
MAPS
1. IBRD 16637 - East Kalimantan
2. IBRD 16638 - West Kalimantan
3. IBRD 16639 - South Sulawesi



1. BACKGROUND AND PROJECT AREA
General /1
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance to
develop about 50,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and oil palm), food crops and
house gardens in East and West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces with
the public sector estates PTP VI, PTP XII, and PNP XXVIII as development
agents. The project would benefit some 18,850 families in the three
provinces. It would also support in-service training programs and strength
ening of participating PNP/PTPs, marketing assistance program for smallhold-
ers, and strengthening of institutions responsible for tree crops develop-
ment.
1.02      Being the seventh project in the Bank-assisted NES series, a number
of sectoral aspects have been described in Staff Appraisal Reports/2 of the
previous projects, and therefore are not detailed again in this report. These
include: GOI's major objectives and development strategies in the agricultural
sector, Bank's lending strategy and projects financed, description of the
rubber and palm oil subsectors, and institutional framework of the tree crops
sector.
Tree Crops Sector
1.03      Overview.  Tree crops occupy about 45% (8.1 million ha) of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 65% of this), and generate about
43% of total non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber
and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil
palm are grown primarily on estates. Production increase of most smallholder
crops has ranged from 2-4% p.a. during the last decade. With the long
immaturity period of tree crops, slow production growth is a symptom of past
low prices and neglect, inadequate research and extension, and failure to
replant with higher-yielding varieties, especially by smallholders. Only oil
palm and coffee have shown sustained large increase in area (and production),
about 9% and 6% p.a. respectively, due to investment programs by Government
and private estates.
/1 This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. A. Hasan, J. van Holst Pellekaan, Ms. R. Anand (Bank),
T. Phillips, E. Panton, P. Durham (Commonwealth Development Corporation)
and C. Relf (Consultant) which visited Indonesia in June 1982. The report
was reviewed by Mr. J. Caparas.
/2 For example, SAR of NES V (3342-IND).



1.04      The main institutions in the sector are: DGE,/1 SBPN/2 and the
state-owned estates (PTPs)/3 with the various units of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Trade and Finance and the banking system playing supporting
roles.
1.05      Accelerated Development Plan.  Recognizing the importance of tree
crops development in increasing smallholder incomes and nonr-oil exports, and
in keeping pace with domestic demand for fats and edible oil, and utilization
of unused land resources, GOI embarked on an accelerated tree crop development
plan with the initiation of Repelita III. The current targets for new
planting/replanting and rehabilitation during Repelita III and IV are 2.4
million ha and 2.8 million ha respectively. The main emphasis is on coconuts
(1.8 million ha), rubber (1.1 million ha) and oil palm (0.9 million ha).
1.06      To implement this plan, GOI established a number of programs.  One
new approach, which is being supported by the Bank-financed Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders (NES) projects, is for Government estates to rehabilitate, or
plant and maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land until the trees
reach maturity, using farmers selected to be settlers (mainly local small-
holders and some transmigrants) first as estate labor, and thereafter to
provide the settlers with inputs, extension services, and processing facili-
ties. A similar program, although domestically funded and limited to
transmigrants (PIR Khusus), has recently started. A smaller program (PIR
Lokal) is resettling squatters on estate land. Tree crops are also being
included in some transmigration projects. Apart from these programs, the
Goverunment has also initiated national programs, backed with credit, to assist
geographically concentrated groups of existing rubber or coconut smallholders
to plant, replant or rehabilitate themselves, with fairly intensive support
from Project Management Units (PMUs). This is the approach of both the
Smallholder Rubber Development Project (SRDP, Credit 984-IND) and the
Smallholder Coconut Development Project (SCDP, Loan 1898-IND). As public
sector estates have had little involvement in coconut development, GOI's
present strategy is to concentrate on increasing smallholder production, and
to assist in processing and agroindustrial development. Using all suitable
approaches, a rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops is a high priority.
1.07      Plan implementation so far has been less than satisfactory.
Although, projects already started cover about 70% of the planting/replant-
ing and 95% of the rehabilitation targets for Repelita III, actual implemenr-
tation is far less. Compared to the implementation target of 700,000 ha
/1  Responsible for development of smallholders and private estates.
/2  Acronym for advisory unit to the Minister of Agriculture, on matters
relating to PNP/PTPs.
/3  There are 28 of these estates, of which 26 are PTPs and 2 PNPs.  All
subsequent references to PTPs in the report include the PNPs as well.



- 3 -
planned to be completed by June 1981, only about 360,000 (or 51%) have been
realized. In general, progress of externally assisted projects has been
more satisfactory, averaging about 85-90% of targets. Organizational, adminr-
istrative and manpower constraints, delays in land alienation are among the
main reasons for the low achievement levels; in the case of beverage crops,
reduced farmer interest (because of declining prices) has also adversely
affected planting targets.
1.08      The NES Projects.  Recognizing the scarce technical and managerial
expertise available within the Government to implement tree crop development
projects, GOI has since 1976 increasingly sought to use the untapped manpower
and technical resources of the public sector estates to promote and guide
smallholder development. The Bank, since November 1977, has helped finance
six NES projects. When fully developed, these projects would settle/resettle
some 57,500 smallholder families, developing for them about 80,700 ha of
rubber, 27,000 ha of oil palm, 15,200 ha of coconuts and associated food crop
and house garden areas. For the nucleus estates, it would develop about
51,500 ha of rubber, 17,600 ha of oil palm and 9,500 ha of coconuts. The
total cost of these projects is about US$964 million of which the Bank is
financing 52% or US$500 million.
1.09      The first three NES projects are sufficiently advanced to provide
guidance on design of new projects. Initially, delays in budget preparation
and receipt of funds by the nucleus estates slowed implementation. To
resolve this, GOI has simplified financial procedures with automatic release
of funds for the first two quarters to the estates. Smallholder and estate
plantings are now on schedule, with the planting or rehabilitation of about
66,300 ha of rubber, 13,000 ha of oil palm and 6,100 ha of coconuts comr-
pleted - representing about 42% of the total planting program (Annex 1, Table
1). In earlier projects, coordination problems between the central and
provincial governments and nucleus estates resulted in delays in construction
of smallholder infrastructure and the movement of smallholders to the project
areas. At certain locations this caused labor shortages for further project
construction and maintenance of tree crop plantings. To overcome this, NES IV
initiated several changes in project design and organization, by giving
greater autonomy to the nucleus estates in designing and implementing the
smallholder components. The DGE established a special unit (Team Khusus) to
assist the nucleus estates (para. 1.15). In addition, from NES IV onwards all
NES projects contain funds to cover the costs of preparatory work for
succeeding projects. These cover key start-up activities such as nursery
establishment, access roads and laborer housing.
Sectoral Constraints and Objectives
1.10      Increasing GOI attention towards the sector and lessons learnt from
implementation of the various projects have highlighted a number of areas
which need to be improved to accelerate the pace of development of the sector.



- 4 -
These are: policy and planning framework, SBPN's and DGE's capacity for
assisting estate and smallholder development respectively, manpower
constraints, tree crops marketing, and estate sector investment planning and
financing. GOI has initiated action to overcome constraints in some of the
above areas. A major focus of both Bank assistance and dialogue between the
Bank and GOI are measures to address sectoral constraints, institutional
strengthening and improving implementation performance. Discussed in paras.
1.11-1.20 are the sectoral objectives and constraints, GOI's actions on these
matters and related measures included in the proposed project.
1.11      Improved Policy and Planning Framework.  The formulation of policies
and development planning activities in the tree crops sector are the joint
responsibility of three groups within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
namely the Directorate of Planning in the DGE, the Bureau of Planning (MOA)
and the SBPN-estate sector planning/coordination unit (para. 1.12). Formal
and informal links between these bodies are well established, for example the
Directorate of Planning reviews its plans with the Bureau of Planning; SBPN
reviews plans for each estate and transmits these plans to the Bureau and the
Directorate of Planning. Although the current policy formulation and planning
process has worked reasonably well in the past, two difficulties have arisen
as a result of the rapid expansion of the program and the increasing economic
importance of the sector. First, there is weak coordination between the tree
crops sector and the other related sectors in the economy e.g. this affects
matters related to, among others, export policies, procedures and regulations,
pricing of domestically traded tree crop products, export quality control and
standardization. The GOI is taking steps to improve the coordination between
sectors including the establishment of interministerial councils for sugar and
tree crops, comprising Ministers of Agriculture, Finance, Trade and
Cooperatives and Industry. A Sugar Council has been established and the Tree
Crops Council is expected to be established shortly. These councils, report-
ing to the President and chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, will propose,
formulate and monitor implementation of development policies and coordinate
action in matters of land, infrastructure, manpower, financing, pricing and
marketing. Each council will have its own secretariat which would provide
mainly administrative support. For technical and policy analysis work it will
draw upon the relevant Directorates in the concerned ministries and the estate
sector planning/coordination unit. Second, the capacity to develop policies
and plans needs strengthening particularly in the face of more constrained
availability of domestic resources and more clouded development options.
Through strengthening of the estate sector planning/coordination unit, the DGE
and Team Khusus, policy formulation and planning capacity would also be
enhanced.
1.12      Improving Planning, Coordination and Monitoring of PTP Activities.
Currently there is an advisory unit to the Minister of Agriculture, SBPN,
which is responsible for policy formulation, coordination of estate sector
investment planning and crop activities, estate financial administration and



- 5 -
control, and assisting PTPs through monitoring and inspection of estate
operation. Considering the importance of the estate sector to the economy and
the magnitude of GOI's investment in these estates, it is imperative that the
planning, coordination and monitoring of PTP's activities be of the highest
quality. The previous NES projects included steps to strengthen SBPN.
Through assistance provided under NES I, SBPN has made progress in coordin-
ating and assisting estates develop long range plans. This aspect is being
augmented further under NES VI with the provision of a financial expert and
land use planner. However, much more needs to be done in other important
areas such as inspection services, investment strategy, international
marketing, manpower planning and technical innovations related to production
and processing. The project would provide support in these areas.
1.13      In addition to internal strengthening, complementary action is
needed to improve SBPN-s weak organizational arrangement - a loosely
structured advisory body outside of the regular government structure and with
no formal relationship with the PTPs or DGE. To correct this weakness and
bring SBPN within the framework of the councils, a new regular government
bureau is expected to be established in the Ministry of Agriculture by
Fall 1983 to take over SBPN's functions. Most of SBPN's current staff are
expected to be transferred to this bureau. This change is expected to take
place in conjunction with the establishment of the Tree Crops Council.
1.14      Strengthening of DGE. The DGE is responsible for smallholder tree
crop development, marketing assistance, regulating private estates and overall
sectoral planning (in coordination with SBPN). Previous Bank projects (Small-
holder Rubber and Coconut development projects) have selectively assisted DGE
in institution building through strengthening of project management units at
the field level. The increasing attention being given to improving marketing
of smallholder crops, forward planning and analysis of development options and
constraints, has highlighted the following areas of priority for which assis-
tance would be provided under this project: (a) DGE's planning, and small-
holder marketing functions; and (b) monitoring implementation of DGE's devel-
opment projects and evaluation of their long-term impact.
1.15      Strengthening of Team Khusus (TK).  This is a special team which
the DGE established to coordinate and supervise preparation of foreign funded
tree crop development projects, monitor implementation of these projects and
for the NES projects assist the estates, particularly in coordinating with
other agencies engaged in the projects. To enhance its capacity to undertake
a larger role in the project cycle, TK is organized into three divisions:
preparation/appraisal, legal/general affairs, and supervision/implementation.
TK has a total of about 15 regular professional staff; additional staff is
being recruited in the fields of processing, civil engineering and outline
planning.  NES V and VI provided consultant services to strengthen TK in the
following areas: financial analysis, procurement, agronomy, crop processing,
land resource evaluation, outline planning, and civil engineering.
Consultants in the first three areas have been recruited and steps are
underway to engage the remaining consultants by the end of 1983. Consultants
already in place have had a significant impact in increasing TK's capacity to



- 6 -
prepare, appraise, and supervise projects as reflected by (i) its increasing
role in preparation of NES VI and appraisal of this project's East Kalimantan
component; and (ii) its proficiency in handling disbursements and procurement
matters and in supervising implementation.
1.16      Increasing Supply of Trained Manpower.  The most immediate con-
straint on the rapid expansion of the tree crops sector is the availability of
trained and experienced staff in all agencies - the PTPs, the provincial
extension services and the central agencies. In NES I and V, funds have been
included to expand the training capacity of the institutions catering to the
estates. Furthermore, manpower development and training needs of the agricul-
tural sector, in general, have been and are being addressed in two Bank-
supported agricultural training projects; these projects are aimed at
improving quality of agricultural schools and in-service training centers in
MOA. A third project is now being appraised which is expected to give
particular attention to specialized subsectoral training centers, in addition
to continuing support for programs initiated in the earlier two projects.
Apart from some modest inservice training for staff of the participating PTPs,
the proposed project does not include any manpower development activities in
view of the upcoming training project. The GOI has also started a "crash"
program for the instruction and upgrading of agricultural technicians, and has
acted to improve the structure and programs of the Estates Training Institute
in Yogyakarta. Using all possible approaches, GOI is forcefully addressing
this constraint.
1.17      Improving Tree Crops Marketing.  The output from PTPs and associated
smallholders (in NES projects) is at present marketed by the PTPs themselves
and through the Joint Marketing Office (JMO) which is financed and operated by
several PTPs and supervised by SBPN. JMO is limited in its marketing role,
for example selling through tenders rather than aggressive marketing; more-
over, occasionally PTPs compete with each other. A proposal put forward by
the PTPs, to GOI, is to transform the JMO into a separate company, owned by
all the PTPs. This company would assist, advise and coordinate the marketing
of PTP production, provide market outlook services, establish overseas
offices, and review issues related to product quality, standardization and
quality control; it would not be involved in actual marketing. The inter-
national marketing specialist to be financed under the project (para. 1.13)
would review the present marketing arrangements and recommend necessary
improvements for consideration by the Tree Crops Council.
1.18      Smallholders, outside of NES projects, sell through middlemen;
having little market power, they are usually price takers and receive limited
additional returns for improved product quality. The prices received by
smallholders are also low because of: high transport and handling costs as



- 7 -
smallholders are scattered over wide areas; poor quality and lack of
uniformity resulting from production under a variety of environments and
techniques. GOI has decreed to use cooperatives to assist smallholders with
quality improvements and marketing. Cooperatives established under the
Bank-financed North Sumatra Smallholders Development project (Cr. 358-IND) are
operating successfully in assisting smallholders with marketing and providing
inputs. A Bank-financed report (June 1982) under SRDP 1 examined the market-
ing and processing of smallholder rubber and recommended the formation of
farmer associations for rubber production, field processing and marketing. In
addition it suggested establishment of a Smallholder Rubber Marketing and
Processing Unit (a sister unit to SRDPU) in DGE to oversee these arrangements.
These recommendations are being examined by DGE. The DGE, in conjunction with
DG Cooperatives, is preparing a pilot program for cooperative formation and
strengthening covering a number of provinces and crops, the primary emphasis
being on rubber. This program would be supported by the project.
1.19      Estate Sector Investment Program and Financing Plan.  The rapidly
expanding role of the PTPs in tree crop development has focussed attention
towards the need for preparation of sound long-range plans and analysis of
financing options. Until recently PTP planning had been mainly limited to
preparation of annual budgets. Over the last two years SBPN, with the
assistance of consultants financed under NES I, has been guiding and assisting
the PTPs to prepare long-range plans which include financial, managerial,
technical and manpower aspects. All PTPs have recently completed their
preliminary plans. SBPN has formed three groups, (one each for sugar, tree
crops, annual crops) comprising technical/financial specialists, which would
review the PTP plans to: (i) ensure that all of them have similar
assumptions; (ii) prepare a consolidated investment program, and (iii)
identify and evaluate possible sources of financing. SBPN expects to complete
this exercise by mid-1983 for submission to BAPPENAS, MOF and DGE for their
comments. It is important that the future plans are compatible with the
estates' managerial and financial capacity and do not adversely affect
implementation of on-going programs (including NES projects). Agreement was
reached with GOI that the individual and consolidated plans (for the period
1984-93) would be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1983. The
assumptions of the plans, particularly those on the planting program, land
availability, manpower availability and implementation capacity, unit costs
and contingencies, commodity prices and D/E ratio and other financial
parameters, would be reviewed by tne Bank for their soundness.
1.20      Until now estate programs have been financed largely through equity
contributions from the Government, loans from the state banks and multilateral
and bilateral financial institutions. Given the increasingly tight budgetary
situation and demands of other priority social and economic programs, it is
important that the estate sector reduces its dependence on the budget and
makes efforts to mobilize resources from other means: equity issues, foreign
participation/investment, bonds, etc. GO is now increasingly limiting direct



equity contributions from the budget. In order that this policy does not
curtail total investment, if D/E is maintained at 60/40,/1 and to further
reduce its indirect contributions (conversion of foreign loans to equity) GOI
has directed SBPN to actively seek joint ventures particularly in the
processing area. Raising equity from the general public appears unlikely,
unless GOI changes its policy across the board for its state enterprises.
Policymakers generally agree on the desirability of bond financing by those
PTP's which are financially sound and have a low D/E ratio. However, the thin
domestic capital markets, and the depressed medium-term commodity prices both
militate against this option at present.
1.21      Bank Review.  An in-depth review mission is planned for late 1983 to
review progress on the above sectoral constraints. The mission would also
examine GOI's policies regarding foreign investments in the tree crops sector,
and actual experience of cost recovery procedures established under NES
projects (para. 5.04).
Project Area Characteristics
1.22      Location.  The project is located in the three provinces of East
Kalimantan, West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi. The East Kalimantan component
(about 83,000 ha gross) lies each side of the Trans-Kalimantan national high-
way in Pasir District, about 100 km south of Balikpapan. The South Sulawesi
component (about 31,000 ha gross) is astride the provincial highway from the
town of Palopo in the south-west to Wotu in the east. The project area is
split into two main blocks known as the Masamba and Wotu areas, all within the
District of Luwu. The West Kalimantan component (about 60,000 ha gross) lies
in Sambas District on the northern and southern sides of the provincial
highway connecting the towns of Samalantan and Sungai Betung.
1.23      Climate.  The climate is lowland wet tropical at all three project
locations. Rainfall is generally between 2,000 mm and 3,000 mm per annum and
therefore suitable for both rubber and oil palm (Annex 1, Table 2). Tempera-
ture, relative humidity and duration of sunshine are also satisfactory. Clima-
tic conditions are also suitable for a wide range of smallholder food crops.
1.24      Soils.  Soil depths and textures are generally suitable in all three
locations. Heavy leaching and the relative infertility, however, require sub-
stantial fertilizer application and early cover crop establishment. The soils
are particularly deficient in phosphate. In Luwu there are areas of high
aluminum content associated with acid soils; unless adequate supplies of lime
are available at reasonable cost these areas would be excluded from develop-
ment. On the seaward side of the East Kalimantan area acid-sulphate soils may
be encountered and any such areas would also be avoided during implementation.
/1  Planning assumption given to PTPs by the Ministry of Finance.



- 9 -
In other areas where there may be some calcium/magnesium imbalance, monitoring
of possible induced deficiencies would be required by leaf analysis.
1.25      Topography and Land Suitability.  (a) In East Kalimantan, project
area topography is generally suitable for rubber, oil palm and traditional
food crop development. Rubber would be planted to the west of the national
highway on gently rolling terrain with slopes ranging from 0 to 15%. Oil
palm would be planted to the east of the highway where the land is generally
flat, running into a series of broad estuarial swamps. Swamp limits have
been mapped, though care would be required during implementation to avoid
areas of salinity and/or flooding risk. (b) In the West Kalimantan project
area the land is generally suitable for rubber and food crop development.
Slopes of less than 15% predominate, though terracing would be required in
limited areas sloping at up to 30%. (c) In the Luwu area of South Sulawesi
topography is the chief constraint to large-scale oil palm development. The
land designated for nucleus estate development is steeply broken in places,
with slopes of 30% or more; excluding this about 4,000 ha of suitable land
is available. In much of the smallholder area particularly that to the south
of the road attention to drainage problems will be needed.
1.26      Land Use, Population, Farm Size and Tenure.  (a)  Present land use
within the East Kalimantan project area is approximately 61,000 ha primary and
secondary forests, 15,000 ha swampy and river areas, 6,000 ha of tree crops
(mainly wild rubber) and alang-alang, and 750 ha settlement and wet land area.
An estimated 3,000 families live in the project area with almost all expected
to join the project. The farmers are basically shifting cultivators, having
customary rights on the land, and with average cultivated landholding of about
2 ha of which about 1 ha is planted with tree crops. (b) The West Kalimantan
project site consists mainly of forest and secondary growth (about 45,000 ha)
and tree crops (about 12,000 ha). The area is sparsely populated with about
1,050 families from the project area expected to participate in the project.
These families are basically shifting cultivators with traditional land use
rights. The average farm size is just over 2 ha. (c) Project area in South
Sulawesi consists of about 50% primary and secondary jungle, 35% scrubby
regrowth, bush and lalang and 15% cropped area under tree crops, sawah and
other crops. The project area has low population density, with about 2,500
families from the area expected to participate in the project. Although the
average farm size is about 2 ha, the average cultivated area is about 1 ha;
the sawah land is held in margas (community groups under Adat law). The
Governors of East and West Kalimantan provinces have alienated the area pro-
posed for development, and provincial and participating PTP officials have
undertaken a census of the project area farmers and as expected determined
that all those with land rights would agree to join the project. Land
alienation and census is underway for the South Sulawesi area.
1.27      Existing Infrastructure and Services in Smallholder Areas.  (a) In
East Kalimantan, a section of provincial highway linking Penajam in the north
to Kuaro in the south-west runs through the project area. This road is gen-
erally in poor condition, however road improvements are underway. Various
logging roads traverse the project area, particularly in the north. These



- 10 -
earth and gravel roads are suitable for upgrading to form part of the
project's road network. While the transportation system (for evacuation of
crude palm oil, kernels and rubber) has not been finalized, preliminary
investigations suggest the use of barges as the most cost-effective, with the
wharf and bulking facility located on the north bank of the River Pasir Lama
within the oil palm nucleus estate; the barges would off-load into tankers
anchored near the river estuary. A design study to confirm this solution and
to prepare detailed specifications for tendering purposes is underway. (b) In
West Kalimantan, the project area is connected by a good quality provincial
road to the main surrounding urban centers and Singkawang, the main port in
the vicinity. There are no access roads within the project area; several
large rivers cross it providing potentially important access to the provin-
cial road. These rivers are already being used for transporting agricultural
products. (c) The Luwu area in South Sulawesi is connected by a good quality
provincial road to the port of Palopo; further improvements of this road are
underway. The replacement of some existing bridges with load limits as low as
2.75 tons may be necessary.
1.28       All project sites are poorly served by public services.  These would
be improved by and as a result of the project.
Implementing Estates
1.29       The area-based components of the project would involve four PTPs,
all of which are involved in ongoing NES projects, as described below.
1.30       PTP VI (East Kalimantan).  Financially and technically, PTP VI is
one of the stronger among the public estates. At the end of 1981, its land
holdings totalled 49,000 ha (mainly oil palm) and it had a managerial/techni-
cal staff of 340 (excluding field workers). Between 1982-87 its planting
commitment (including those under NES III and the proposed project) total
about 30,000 ha of nucleus estates and 56,000 ha of smallholder development.
This program is within PTP VI's capacity; it is augmenting and strengthening
its staff resources through new recruitment and aggressive staff training.
Its performance under NES III has been less than satisfactory, because of lack
of experience in rubber development; this problem is being addressed. Steps
would be taken under this project to augment capacity for rubber development
through provision of technical assistance.
1.31       PTP XII (West Kalimantan).  PTP XII's estates total about 27,000 ha,
of which nearly half is planted with tea with the remainder comprising mainly
rubber. Its existing technical/managerial staff totals 276. Over the next
five years, PTP XII would be developing about 16,000 ha of estate and
18,000 ha of smallholder land - mainly rubber.  Most of this comprises its
commitments under NES VI and the proposed project. With the recruitment of
the additional 30 staff which is planned, these targets are within the
implementation capacity of PTP XII. The main constraint is its weak financial
capacity resulting from its heavy involvement in tea. With financial
restructuring (agreed to under NES VI) and crop diversification being pursued,
PTP XII's financial position should improve.



- 11 -
1.32       PNP XXVIII (South Sulawesi).  This is one of the weakest public
estates; it has scattered land holdings of about 40,000 ha of which 6,500 are
producing. Its staff totals about 170. In line with GOI's policy of estate
strengthening, PNP XXVIII was made responsible under NES VI for developing
7,000 ha of rubber and coconut nucleus estate, through a major injection of
new staff and equity. To further develop PNP XXVIII and increase its parti-
cipation in the NES program, it would own the nucleus estate in the South
Sulawesi component. However given its existing weaknesses and lack of
experience in oil palm, it would contract out project implementation to PNP
VII during the project period. PNP XXVIII would recruit additional staff
deploying them alongside PNP VII personnel to receive on-the-job training. It
is envisaged that through experience gained under NES VII, by the end of this
project PNP XXVIII should be able to independently handle NES type projects.
1.33       PNP VII (South Sulawesi).  PNP VII has been selected as the imple-
menting contractor for this component, during the project period, in view of
its sound standing and extensive experience with oil palm development. Its
own oil palm holdings are scheduled to rise from about 74,000 ha in 1983 to
82,000 ha in 1986. In addition it has already gained experience in NES-type
projects (NES V) and by 1985 will be involved in developing about 19,000 ha of
smallholder oil palm. To undertake its responsibilities under NES VII, PNP
VII would deploy about 27 of its existing senior technical and managerial
staff to the project area together with commensurate numbers of administrative
and field workers.
Project Formulation and Preparation
1.34       One key difference between this and earlier NES Projects is its
broader focus, enabling it to address and influence a greater range of issues
in the development of tree crops, especially that of smallholders. In this
respect, the project content reflects a further evolution of Bank support to
the NES concept. In view also of the good progress achieved so far in
implementing the NES program and enhancement of TK's capabilities, the project
includes one fully appraised component and two components for subsequent
appraisal by Team Khusus, as summarized below.
1.35      Appraised Component.  The component in East Kalimantan was prepared
by local consultants, on the basis of whose work TK drew up a draft appraisal
report. This report was reviewed by the Bank/CDC mission. The draft
appraisal, while deficient in some respects, represents a very satisfactory
beginning.
1.36      Unappraised Components.  The components in South Sulawesi and West
Kalimantan would be appraised by TK. Both project areas were visited and
their respective preparation reports reviewed by the Bank/CDC mission. The
mission pointed out the major issues still to be resolved and provided general
guidance to TK for subsequent appraisal work.



- 12 -
1.37      For the South Sulawesi component basic preparation work is well
advanced but further work is required on the following issues: (a) Land
Limitations. Consultants proposed developing 12,000 ha of oil palm but site
visit and review of aerial photographs suggest that about 25 percent of this
area is topographically marginal. In the absence of topographical maps for
some of the area, TK and preparation consultants would undertake a detailed
review in the field to resolve this issue and subsequently to draw up an
outline plan showing detailed proposed land use patterns and associated
infrastructure; (b) Palm Oil Transportation. Preparation consultants have
recommended using Palopo harbor. However, preliminary investigations suggest
that in view of the haulage distance involved (about 70 km) and the need to
replace up to 14 mediumspan bridges, barge transport from a small wharf near
the project area to ships anchored offshore appears to be a more
cost-effective solution. Further investigations and discussions with DG
Highways and DG Sea Communications would be carried out by TK prior to
appraisal.
1.38      The West Kalimantan component was originally part of the domestic
PIR-Khusus program. Land clearing is complete on 3,000 ha, of which, 1,100 ha
has been planted satisfactorily. A feasibility study already drawn up by
local consultants is an adequate basis for appraisal by TK. The main out-
standing task is the preparation of an outline plan.
1.39      Taking into account the additional work required, TK would be able
to complete its appraisal work on West Kalimantan by March 1983 and on South
Sulawesi by June 1983. These subloan appraisal reports would be sent to
Bank/CDC for approval (para. 3.04).
2. THE PROJECT
2.01      This project would continue GOI's smallholder development program
using public sector estates to establish nucleus estate and smallholder tree
crops and infrastructure. Over five years, (April-1983 to April-1988) the
project would establish some 29,200 ha of rubber and 21,000 ha of oil palm
(12,500 for the estates and 37,700 ha for smallholders) and provide processing
facilities, in the three project sites (para. 1.22). It would resettle some
18,850 families at these sites and provide them with houses, food gardens,
water supply, village infrastructure and initial subsistence allowance and
inputs. In addition, it would provide for roads, estate housing and build-
ings, road and wharf construction, transport trucks and barges and agricul-
tural machinery and equipment. The project would also support strengthening
of DGE, estate sector planning and coordination function, marketing programs
for smallholders, in-service training for public estates, and funds for
start-up activities.



- 13 -
Detailed Features
1. Tree Crops Development (US$341 million /1)
2.02      The detailed agricultural and physical features included in the
project are described below. Since the West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi
components are unappraised, the estimates are tentative. Planting program
is detailed in Annex 2, Table 1.
East Kalimantan (PTP VI) (US$181 million)
2.03       (a) development of 14,200 ha of rubber, of which 2,500 ha would be
nucleus estate, and 11,700 ha for about 5,850 smallholders; (b) development of
12,000 ha of oil palm, of which 3,000 ha would be nucleus estate and 9,000 ha
for about 4,500 smallholders; (c) clearing of about 5,175 ha for smallholder
house, garden and food crops; (d) construction of estate housing and building;
(e) establishment of about 34 villages including construction of smallholder
housing (with sanitation and water supply) and village infrastructure to
accommodate 10,350 families; (f) construction of about 365 km of access,
village and collection roads, 1,100 km of estate/farm tracks, and 455 m of
bridges; (g) construction of a 800 ton/month rubber factory and 35 ton/hr FFB
palm oil factory for the estate;/2 (h) construction of bulking facility and
wharf; and (i) procurement of road construction and agricultural machinery,
and barges for transportation of palm oil.
West Kalimantan (PTP XII) (US$81 million)
2.04       (a) Development of 15,000 ha of rubber, of which 3,000 ha would be
nucleus estate, and 12,000 ha for about 6,000 smallholders; (b) clearing of
about 3,000 ha for smallholder house, garden and fooderops; (c) construction
of estate housing and building; (d) establishment of about 22 villages includ-
ing construction of smallholder housing (with sanitation and water supply) and
village infrastructure to accommodate 6,000 families; (e) construction of
about 155 km of access, village and collection roads, 450 km of estate/farm
tracks, and 110 m of bridges; (f) construction of a 1,000 ton/month rubber
factory for the estate;/3 and (g) procurement of road construction and
agricultural machinery.
South Sulawesi (PNP VII/PNP XXVIII) (US$79 million)
2.05       (a) development of 9,000 ha of oil palm, of which 4,000 ha would be
nucleus estate and 5,000 ha for about 2,500 smallholders; (b) clearing of
/1 Figures in parenthesis indicate total costs including contingencies.
These exclude preproject costs for planting 2,000 ha of oil palm and
500 ha rubber in East Kalimantan, 4,100 ha rubber in West Kalimantan and
500 ha oil palm in South Sulawesi.
/2 Building constructed for eventual capacity of 1,300 tons/month (rubber)
and 70 tons/hr (FFB).
/3 Building constructed for eventual capacity of 1,500 tons/month.



- 14 -
about 750 ha for smallholder house, garden and food crops; (c) construction of
estate housing and building; (d) establishment of about 12 villages including
construction of smallholder housing (with sanitation and water supply) and
village infrastructure to accommodate 2,500 families; (e) construction of
about 160 km of access, village and collection roads, 480 km of estate/farm
tracks, and 750 m of bridges; (f) construction of a 30 ton/hour FFB palm oil
factory for the estate; (g) construction of a bulking facility and wharf; and
(h) procurement of road construction and agricultural machinery, and barges
for transportation of palm oil.
Agricultural Aspects /1
2.06       All project land would be free from title or compensation disputes,
and available for redistribution. The estates would aggregate the land
suitable for tree crop planting into blocks of at least 50 ha, and up to 500
ha. Suitability would depend on slope and present or potential land use.
Because of harvesting difficulties on land too steep, the estate would plant
oil palm up to about 15% slope with minor areas tolerated up to 30%, and
rubber up to about 35% slope. Existing irrigated or rainfed sawahs and areas
of suitable terrain required for villages, houses and gardens or foodcrops
would not be planted to tree crops.
2.07       In East and West Kalimantan each smallholder would receive 3.0 ha,
of which 2.0 ha would be suitable for oil palm or rubber, 0.5 ha for house,
garden and food crops, and the remaining 0.5 ha for either food crops or tree
crops. The estates would clear 2.5 ha for each family, block planting 2.0 ha
with oil palm or rubber and leaving 0.5 ha for house, garden and food crops;
of this 0.5 ha, 0.25 ha would be stumped and 0.25 ha chainsaw felled. In
South Sulawesi, each smallholder would receive 2.0 ha of block planted oil
palm; since the majority of smallholders have a 0.75 ha sawah area, provision
of new areas for food crops under the project would be limited to 0.25 ha.
The estates would clear this 2.25 ha. At all sites, smallholders would be
recruited largely from project areas (para. 3.13).
2.08       The estate, for employment reasons, would as far as possible
manually clear the tree crops land for themselves and the settlers, using the
latter as estate. labor and would provide the new settlers with cash (Rp
125,000) for initial subsistence (Rp 60,000) and purchase of essential first
year inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides (Rp 65,000); the estates
would make available the inputs which the smallholder could purchase annually
for their food gardens. Further, the estates would maintain the block planted
rubber or oil palm until the bearing stage, when they would be transferred to
the smallholders; after this stage, they would provide extension services,
/1  Physical planning, land clearing methods, civil works (roads, houses,
village infrastructure design and construction features) have been
standardized for NES projects and presented in detail in previous SAR's
(e.g. NES V, 3342 -IND). These are therefore not repeated here.



- 15 -
fertilizer/pesticides, and collection, processing and marketing services
(para. 3.06). The smallholders would pay for these services and the mainte-
nance costs through deductions from sales of palm fruit or rubber
(para. 5.04).
2.09      Land clearing and preparation would take place from April to
September with cover crops being planted soon after clearing and lining.
Field planting of oil palm and rubber would be done from November to March.
2.10      Nurseries.  Using start-up funds from NES VI and the PIR-Khusus
budget, nurseries at all sites have been established.
Infrastructural Aspects
2.11      Road Construction.  The estates would establish a network of access,
collection and village roads and estate/farm tracks throughout the proposed
sites. Standardized road designs (as used in previous NES projects) would be
used for construction of project roads. Except for bridgeworks the estates
would construct the roads and tracks by force account. The estates would
locally recruit consultants to assist in road alignment survey, cross-section
design, and construction (para. 2.20). The estates would ensure that their
machinery suppliers train the concerned estate staff in the use of the
purchased machinery.
2.12      Housing and Sanitary Facilities.  Smallholder housing following the
basic design (36 sq m constructed of timber and galvanized roofing with
adjacent pit latrines) would be constructed, mainly by contract, by the
respective estates. Besides building new houses, the estates would replace
any substandard houses of existing settlers. The houses would be ready before
the smallholders arrive. Using standard designs, the estates also would
construct housing for their management, permanent field staff and labor.
2.13      Water Supply.  Parts of the East Kalimantan site, and all of the
West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi sites are adjacent to small streams and
rivers, water from which is good for drinking purposes. The estates would dig
wells (3-6 m deep), one for 2-5 households. In the hilly and coastal areas of
the East Kalimantan site, where the surface or ground water is either unavail-
able or of poor quality, PTP VI would provide each house with roof collection
system with water tanks (1.5 m3) or construct some other suitable water
source for year round supply (e.g. small earth dams with shallow wells near
the dam).
2.14      Village Infrastructure.  Standard design for settlement planning and
village infrastructure (including type and size of community facilities) would
be used. Each village would comprise about 200 families (consisting of a
number of small groups of 25-30 households), and have community facilities
such as health posts, village offices, markets, place of worship, schools,
sport grounds and community hall. The estates would locally recruit
consultants to assist in village design, food crop and garden layouts and
construction (para. 2.20). The nucleus estate would construct all the



- 16 -
village infrastructure, except the health and education facilities; these
would be constructed by the provincial government, through the PCC's, using
INPRES funds.
2.15      Processing Facilities.  At each site the participating estates would
construct sufficient processing capacity to handle their own and the small-
holder's production. The oil palm and rubber factories would be installed by
stages. Annex 2, Table 2 gives details, by site, of estimated production,
processing capacity installed under project and in subsequent stages. At all
sites, if requested by GOI, the completion of required processing capacity
could be considered for Bank financing under subsequent loans. The rubber
factories under the project would be designed to produce crumb rubber; at a
later date, if the estates so desired they may add lines for sheet rubber.
The estates would be responsible for installing, operating and maintaining all
processing facilities; the project would provide consultants to assist the
estates in this task (para. 2.20). The estates would construct their
factories using at least two main contracts: (a) civil works (design and
construct); and (b) plant and equipment (supply, erect and commission). PTPs
would ensure that the civil works contractor meets the specifications of the
machinery suppliers. PTP VI would construct its oil palm and rubber factories
according to the implementation schedule in Annex 2, Table 3; for the two
unappraised components, the implementation schedule would be provided in the
subloan appraisal reports.
2.16      Bulking Facility, Wharf and Barges.  PTP VI would establish a
bulking facility (3,000 tons) and a barging wharf (about 750 sq m) near the
project site. Engagement of consultants for site location and design work is
already underway (para. 1.27). Construction would be undertaken by contract.
tn addition, PTP VI would procure 3 barges (about 500 dwt each) to transport
palm oil to tanker vessels; it would ensure that the barge supplier provides
its staff the necessary training. Based on preliminary findings, PNP XXVIII
would also require bulking facilities and a transportation system similar to
that for PTP VI.
2. Technical Assistance and Program Support (US$27 million)
2.17      As detailed below, the project would assist to strengthen the
planning and coordination of PTP activities, the DGE in its overall small-
holder development programs, and individual estates to implement the project.
In addition start-up funds for future NES projects, would be provided.
Institutional Strengthening
2.18      Ministry of Agriculture/DGE (US$3 million).  To improve planning,
coordination and monitoring of PTP activities a number of consultants would be
recruited whose main role would be to develop, in collaboration with counter-



- 17-
parts from the unit responsible for this function,/l procedures, systems and
training programs aimed at building up the unit's capacity to carry out its
functions. The consultants expected to be recruited would be: (a) a manpower
specialist to advise on manpower planning methods, evolve manpower planning
and development programs for the PTPs, and advise on the nature and extent of
training required by PTP staff; (b) processing engineers (one each in rubber
and palm oil) to advise PTPs on improvements in processing operations, invest-
ment in new or expanded processing facilities, maintenance practices and
procurement of machinery, and assist in establishing inspection services; (c)
a specialist to establish a system for inspection services for estate crops
production. This specialist along with a similar specialist engaged under NES
I would formulate and develop an inspection system to be used by the unit for
the regular monitoring of PTP's agricultural activities; (d) a specialist in
materials management to assist the PTPs to improve the product transportation
and materials handling system, warehousing and inventory control methods and
techniques, and material procurement procedures; (e) an information management
specialist to develop and establish uniform data processing, storage and
retrieval systems to handle all production, processing, marketing and finan-
cial data for each PTP; and (f) a specialist in international marketing and
trading to assist and advise PTPs on marketing improvement and commodity
analysis, establish within JMO capacity to undertake regular market supply and
demand analysis, recommend improvements in marketing policies and procedures
and export regulations and documentation, and train PTP staff in international
trading.
2.19      In addition, DGE would recruit the following specialist to
strengthen its planning and implementation capacity: (a) a specialist in
monitoring of project implementation and project evaluation whose role would
be to strengthen DGE's existing project supervision system and design and
implement a system which could be used as the basis for selectively evaluating
the long-term benefits of tree crops projects. By upgrading this area,
project implementation would improve and better inputs would be provided for
the planning of current and future development programs; (b) a planning system
advisor to assist improve sector planning and the existing system for
formulation and preparation of plans. The specialists would work with
counterparts in the Directorate of Planning. The project would also finance
in-service training for DGE staff, at overseas and domestic training
institutions. The consultants for the estate sector unit (para. 2.18) and
DGE, are expected to be recruited substantially in accordance with Annex 2,
Table 4. However, the requirements would be finalized once SBPN's
reorganization is completed (para. 1.13). GOI would submit to the Bank,
by December 1983, a detailed proposal outlining the technical assistance
requirements for the estate sector unit and DGE.
/1 Currently SBPN.



- 18 -
2.20      Implementing PTPs (US$4 million).  To assist participating PTPs
implement the project and upgrade their staff, the project would finance the
following activities: (a) processing specialists to design, prepare bid
documents and specifications, assist in evaluating bids received, and super-
vise construction of the processing factories. These consultants could be
recruited internationally or locally. The specific requirements would be
about 36 man-months each for PTP VI and PTP XII for the rubber factory. Given
PTP VI and PNP VII's experience in oil palm processing they would only hire
short-term consultants for design work and preparation of bid documents and
specifications; (b) a rubber agronomist for PTP VI for three years to assist
its staff with the establishment of rubber estate and smallholder areas; (c)
short-term consultants to assist estate staff in survey, site, design, and
construction of the smallholder villages, food crop area layout, project roads
and bridges. Each estate would require about 24 man-months; (d) other
consultants as may be identified, later, for PTP XII and PNP XXVIII; and
(e) in-service training programs for the staff of these estates. In general
these programs would be directed at all levels of estate staff and contain
courses of various lengths on managerial and technical matters. Courses would
be given at the estate headquarters, other estates or in overseas and domestic
training institutions.
2.21      Total Requirements for Consultants.  Annex 2, Table 4 lists the
total consulting service requirements for the estate sector unit, DGE, and the
PTPs. A total of 432 manmonths of foreign and local consultants would be
provided at an estimated cost of US$5.8 million. In line with established
practice, GOI would engage consultants with qualifications and under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Quality Improvement of Smallholder Production (US$1 million)
2.22      The project will support DGE's pilot program for improving the
marketing position of smallholders through quality improvements and better
organized off-farm sales. Under this program existing cooperatives would be
strengthened or new cooperatives formed with the specific purpose of assisting
tree crops producing smallholders, particularly rubber producers, in the
following areas: (a) produce a higher quality product through improved field
processing and reduction in impurities; and (b) organize into seller groups
which would increase tradeable volumes, reduce transportation and handling
costs and in general improve the smallholders bargaining position with
respect to middlemen. The pilot program would comprise staff recruitment,
training, technical assistance, vehicles and minor equipment for training
smallholders. The DGE would recruit a marketing specialist (Annex 2, Table 4)
to formulate strategies and mechanisms for the marketing of smallholder tree
crop output and assist DGE with implementation of this pilot program.
Preparation of this program is being finalized and GOI would submit to the
Bank, by June 1983, a proposal containing the program's detail.



- 19 -
Start-up Funds (US$19 million)
2.23       This would finance start-up activities for future Bank-assisted tree
crops projects. Start-up activities include planning; nursery and field
development; initial construction of houses, buildings and roads including
initial procurement of construction equipment. In line with established
practice, GOI would submit to the Bank a proposal outlining details of
activities to be financed, before initiation of these activities.
3. Implementation Status, Financial and Procurement Matters
Implementation Status
2.24       (a) For the East Kalimantan component an outline plan at 1:50,000
has been prepared showing project layout and preliminary road alignments.
In view of the generally favorable topography this plan is an adequate basis
to proceed with land clearing, the subsequent detailed alignment of new roads
and preparing village layouts. Only some village sites on steeper land in
the rubber block would require more detailed topographical maps at 1:10,000
scale; these would be drawn up. (b) Adequate topographic, soils and vegeta-
tion information is available for the West Kalimantan component to draw up an
outline plan of 1:50,000 scale. Given the favorable topography, this plan
would be adequate to proceed with land and village development. (c) For the
Wotu block of the South Sulawesi component, enlarged aerial photographs with
imputed 5 m contours are available at a scale of 1:10,000. This material
would be used in preparing an outline plan of new land use patterns, road
alignments and village development. For the Masamba block neither aerial
photographs nor topographical maps are available. Oil palm development
would therefore begin only after ensuring against topographical constraints,
and other things being equal, preference would be given to blocks close to
the provincial highway. Simultaneously, new aerial photographs at 1:20,000
would be taken to ascertain suitable land and in preparing outline plans.
Standard designs and specifications exist for all smallholder and estate
housing, buildings, village infrastructure and roads.
2.25       GOI would fully implement the project over 12 years, that is, from
establishing the first nurseries till the last blocks of trees planted com-
mence bearing. The proposed project would assist with implementation over
five years, from early-1983 till early-1988. During the first 12 months the
activities most crucial to project implementation would be wharf construc-
tion (East Kalimantan); and estate housing and buildings, smallholder housing
and procurement of initial road construction and agricultural equipment (all
components). Using start-up funds from NES VI, and the GOI budget the estates
have already commenced most of these crucial tasks.
Cost Estimates
2.26       Total estimated costs over full development (12 years) is US$469
million. The project comprises the five years (early-1983 to early-1988)
during which period US$368 million is the estimated project cost, of which



- 20 -
US$194 million (53%) is the foreign exchange component./1 Base costs are
expressed in early-1983 prices and because of the tax exempt status of the
implementing agencies, do not include taxes.
2.27       Base cost estimates for the East Kalimantan component (US$130 mil-
lion) were derived from the detailed cost analysis of recent similar works
undertaken by PTP VI, unit cost standards used by BAPPENAS and unit con-
struction costs in nearby areas. Base cost estimates for the unappraised
West Kalimantan (US$59 million) and South Sulawesi (US$55 million) compo-
nents are tentative, as detailed cost analysis has not been undertaken.
Consultant service costs are based on recent contracts for similar services
in Indonesia. The cost estimates include an allowance for physical contin-
gencies of 15% for housing and infrastructure and 10% for field development,
roads, services, equipment and supplies. The cost estimates also include
allowances for price escalations during implementation based on the follow-
ing annual contingencies: (a) 12% for 1983, and 10% for 1984-87 for domestic
costs; and (b) 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986-87
for foreign costs. Price contingencies total about 23% of base cost plus
physical contingencies.  Annex 2, Table 5 summarizes project costs while
Staff Working Papers give their details. For the three land development
components, nucleus estates costs account for 42% and smallholder costs for
58%.
/1 The cost of preproject start-up works are excluded from this total, but
included in the full development costs.



- 21 -
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  exchange
Components                ----(Rp billion)-----   ---(US$ million)---        (%)
East Kalimantan            40.2    45.7   85.9    60.9   69.2   130.1    53
West Kalimantan            18.9    20.2   39.1    28.7   30.7    59.4    52
South Sulawesi             16.4    20.1   36.5    24.8   30.4    55.2    55
Program support             3.8    12.0   15.8       5.8   18.2    24.0    76
Base Cost               79.3    98.0  177.3   120.2  148.5   268.7    55
Physical contingencies      9.1    10.3   19.4    13.8   15.6    29.4    53
Price contingencies        26.3    19.6   45.9    39.8   29.6    69.4    43
Total Project Cost    114.7   127.9  242.6   173.8  193.7   367.5    53
Front-end fee on
Bank loan /a               -       1.5    1.5       -     2.3     2.3      -
Total Financing
Required             114.7   129.4  244.1   173.8  196.0   369.8
/a  Bank loan assumed at US$152.3 million.  Actual front-end fee is
US$2.28 million.
Project Financing (Including Front-end Fee)
2.28      The project would be financed 48% by GOI (US$178.6 million), 42% by
IBRD (US$154.6 million), 8% by CDC (US$30 million) and 3% from suppliers
credit (US$6.6 million). Because the implementing estates do not currently
have sufficient investment funds, they would not finance any project works.
The project's detailed financing plan is provided in Annex 2, Table 6. The
proposed Bank loan and CDC loan would finance respectively 79% and 15% of the
projects foreign exchange costs. The Bank/CDC would jointly finance the East
and West Kalimantan components, with the Bank solely financing the South
Sulawesi and Program Support components. Upon approval of subloan appraisal
reports, the unappraised components (para. 3.04) would become eligible for
Bank/CDC financing.
2.29      GOI would provide its contribution to the project implementing
agencies out of annual budget appropriations, and would secure the suppliers



- 22 -
credit to assist finance the new processing plants for PTP VI and PTP XII./I
GOI would provide the Rp 67 billion (US$101 million) required to carry out the
project in Years 6-12. These funds would maintain smallholder and nucleus
estate plantings while they are immature and construct additional processing
capacity. The funds would come from the MOF and possibly machinery suppliers'
credits.
2.30      Funds Flow.  For smallholders development (except health facilities
and schools) the PTP would prepare an annual and quarterly work program and
budget, in consultation with Team Khusus, which is submitted to BAPPENAS.
BAPPENAS, as well as Team Khusus, would undertake a detailed review to ensure
that costs are in line with its own cost standards, actual costs on similar
work and those indicated in the SAR; moreover the physical targets are checked
in relation to PTP's prior performance and estimates in SAR. After approval
by BAPPENAS, MOF would channel the funds to the PTP's in quarterly disburse-
ments in advance of expenditures. Funds for the first two quarters would be
disbursed upon budget approval; for the subsequent quarters, funds would be
disbursed after taking into account actual expenditures in prior quarters and
the program for upcoming quarter. Funds for school and health facilities
would be provided to the provincial government through the INPRES program.
Part of the development costs would be repaid by the smallholder (para. 2.33)
For nucleus estate development the annual work program and budget would be
reviewed in the same manner as that for smallholders. After the review, MOF
and Bank Indonesia (BI) would provide to the PTPs funds in quarterly tranches
in accordance with the the agreed work program./2 They would make these funds
available to the estates in form of loans or equity (para. 2.34), either
directly or through one of the state banks.
2.31      The Bank would reimburse the MOF and BI for the funds they make
available to the PTPs (para. 2.42). The MOF/BAPPENAS review procedures for
the annual work program and the quarterly progress, not only ensures that
budgeted expenditures are in line with established cost standards but also the
flow of funds from MOF/BI to PTPs are in line with actual expenditures by
PTPs.
Onr-Lending Terms and Conditions
2.32      Under the NES program, the GOI has an established interest rate
policy of lending or onr-lending public funds to smallholders at 10.5% p.a.,
and to public sector estates at 13.5% p.a. With inflation rates projected at
/1  Given PNP XXVIII's weak financial position, it may be difficult to
obtain supplier's credit. Therefore its oil palm mill would be
financed by the Bank loan.
/2  Domestic currency loans are channelled through BI, while foreign currency
loans are given direct by MOF.



- 23 -
12% for 1983, and falling to about 10% thereafter, the interest rate for the
estates would be positive in real terms while that for the smallholders
would be slightly negative. However, this interest rate is justified for
the smallholders since they belong to the target poverty level which GOI
wishes to assist.
2.33      Smallholder Loans.  Smallholders would repay part of their devel-
opment costs, that is for the credit items of tree crop planting, subsistence
payments, settler housing, farm tracks and tree crop development overheads
(calculated as 10% of the tree crop establishment costs). They would not
repay the noncredit items of water supply, village roads and infrastructure,
education and health facilities, and project management (calculated as 5% of
the tree crop establishment costs and paid to the implementing estate). The
total cost of smallholder credit items would be divided into standardized
credit amounts for each smallholder. At the end of the third year when the
hak malik titles for the land are ready, the smallholders would enter into a
credit agreement with the BRI. This agreement would include all credit
expenditures during years one to three, and provisional estimates of the
credit expenditures during year four for oil palm establishment, and during
years four and five for rubber establishment; the agreements for oil palm and
rubber would be amended in year five and year six respectively to include the
actual credit expenditures to bring the tree crops to maturity. The agree-
ments would be for 17 years, with repayments over 15 or 14 years, that is,
with two years of grace for oil palm and three for rubber producers. Thus,
oil palm smallholders would commence repayments in the sixth year after
planting, and rubber smallholders in the seventh. Interest would be accrued
and capitalized during the grace period.
2.34      Nucleus Estate Loans.  MOF would make these funds available to the
estates under terms of a subsidiary loan agreement (SLA). For PTP VI
nucleus estate development, MOF would provide domestic currency funds as a
16-year and Bank/CDC funds as a 20-year loan; each loan would have an eight
year grace period and be repayable in semi-annual repayments over the balance
of the loan period. Interest accruing during the grace period would be
capitalized./l The repayment terms are based on the cash flow of the
nucleus estate and are reasonable considering the long gestation period and
the modest commodity price projections in the medium term. Terms of the
loans to PTP XII and PNP XXVIII are expected to be generally similar to that
for PTP VI, and would be specified in the subloan appraisal reports; preli-
minary analysis suggest that PNP XXVIII would require additional equity
(about US$25.0 million) in view of its weak financial position (para. 5.07).
Consequently, similar to practice under previous NES projects, the Bank
portion of funds would be converted into equity. The requirements for
equity would also be outlined in the subloan appraisal report of the South
Sulawesi component. The signing of SLA, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of disbursement for the estate development.
/1 On domestic currency loans, simple interest would be charged during the
grace period.



- 24 -
Procurement
2.35      Procurement procedures to be followed under the project are
detailed below.
2.36      International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Agricultural machinery
(US$9 million), road construction equipment (US$11 million) and processing
equipment /1 (US$ 5 million) would be procured through ICB in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Agrochemicals (pesticides, herbicides, etc.) and rock
phosphate valued at about US$9.0 million would also be procured through ICB.
At present GOI maintains a list ('white list') of agrochemicals eligible for
use in Indonesia, thereby restricting procurement to those brand names on
the list. The 'white list' is based on field tests and recommendations of a
technical committee comprising officials of ministries of Agriculture,
Health and Environment. Bank review of white listing procedures has
indicated that these are sound, allowing any supplier the opportunity to
have its product tested and placed on the list; furthermore this list is
open-ended and continuously reviewed. Qualified domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the
import duty, whichever is lower. To the extent possible, DGE would
centrally procure road .construction equipment and agricultural machinery for
the estates, minimizing the number of contracts.
2.37      Suppliers Credit.  GOI would procure processing equipment for the
oil palm mill (PTP VI) and rubber factory (PTP VI and PTP XII) using
suppliers' credit financing (US$7 million) through efficient procedures
ensuring competitive prices.
2.38      Domestic Procedures.  The estates would procure through prudent
shopping road construction machinery, up to the aggregate amount of US$1.6
million, in order to facilitate initial implementation. Equipment, spare
parts and supplies costing less than US$50,000 each would also be procured
through prudent shopping based on at least three quotations. Urea (US$3.0
million) and other fertilizers (US$8.0 million) would be procured from a GOI-
owned distributing company (para. 2.39). In addition, agrochemicals and
rock phosphate up to the aggregate amount of US$600,000 annually would be
procured by the estates following prudent shopping procedures. Civil works
contracts for housing, infrastructure and processing facilities (US$122 mil-
lion) which are small (mostly about $0.5 million and occasionally up to
$2.0 million) and widely scattered in area and time span and thus unlikely
to attract international contractors, would be awarded by local competitive
bidding procedures, or by force account. As in previous NES projects, the
estates themselves would undertake the land development either by force
account or subcontract, plus other works that must be integrated with this
/1 Processing equipment for PNP XXVIII.



- 25 -
work and phased over an extended time period, such as land clearing for
village infrastructure, food crop, house and garden areas, and collection
and village road construction.
2.39      In line with ongoing NES projects, urea would be procured from
P.T. Pusri - the sole producer and distributor of urea in Indonesia. Since
world market prices are about 70% higher than PT Pusri's prices, foreign
bidders would not be interested. Except for Urea, most fertilizers are
imported. For most types of fertilizers/i required for GOI's tree crops and
food crops development programs, P.T. Pusri bulk procures them using proce-
dures broadly similar to ICB. Bank review has indicated that quoted prices
under GOI procurement are generally lower than those quoted under procurement
by individual Bank projects - mainly because of the large quantities procured
in the first case. In view of this and the tremendous administrative
advantages, the estates would be allowed to procure fertilizers from P.T.
Pusri. Currently most fertilizers are subsidized through the budget. As
part of the Bank's continuing dialogue with the GOI, the fertilizer subsidy
issue is being discussed with a view to reduction in subsidies while ensuring
that this does not adversely affect production, particularly that of rice.
2.40      Consultants.  Contracts for consultants' services (US$6 million)
would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the uses of
consultants.
2.41      Bank Review.  GOI would submit to the Bank for review, prior to
tendering and award, documents for contracts of US$0.5 million or more.
Disbursements
2.42      For the East and West Kalimantan components, Bank and CDC funds
would be disbursed jointly. Expenditures on South Sulawesi and Program
Support components would be disbursed solely by the Bank. The Bank would
reimburse as follows:
(a) 34% of the funds released quarterly by MOF (for smallholder
development) and onlent by MOF and BI (for nucleus estate
development) to the PTPs implementing the East and West Kalimantan
components. The reimbursement rate would be 46% for South
Sulawesi component;
(b) 100% of cost for consultant services, training and start-up
expenditures for future Bank financed NES projects.
/1 KCL, Ammonium Sulphate, TSP and some mixtures.



- 26 -
Statement of expenditures (SOE) would be used for (a) above; this SOE would
indicate the amount of funds relesed by MOF/BI during the quarter, which
would be the basis for reimbursing GOI. In addition the SOE would include
the following information: (i) the physical quantities and costs of the
activities (e.g. land clearing, land preparation, planting, tree crops
maintenance, construction of roads, building and other civil works) and
items (machinery, fertilizers, etc.) for which the PTP intends to use these
quarterly releases; and (ii) the actual physical achievements and expendi-
tures incurred up to the end of the previous quarter. This additional
information would provide continuous feedback on the uses of Bank funds and
a check that disbursements are in line with actual expenditures. SOE's
would also be used for disbursements for training costs and start-up
expenditures. Detailed documentation supporting the SOE's would be retained
in Indonesia and made available to Bank supervision missions for review. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 2, Table 7. Compared
to actual disbursements under previous NES projects, the projected disburse-
ment's rate is faster in the first three years considering that field
development has already commenced at all sites, and because management is
now stronger and more centralized. The disbursement pattern for both the
NES projects and area development projects in the East Asia and Pacific
Region are also provided in Annex 2, Table 7.
Accounts and Audits
2.43      All public estates have standardized accounting systems.  PNP/PTPs
participating under the project would keep separate accounts for all invest-
ment costs relating to NES VII smallholders as well as nucleus estate
project implementation. NES VII project accounts and related disbursements
made under statements of expenditures, would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (this includes the State Auditor), and the
audit reports would be submitted to the GOI, the Bank and CDC no later than
six months after the end of each year. An assurance was obtained from
GOI that these accounting and auditing practices would be followed. In
ongoing NES projects, audit covenants are generally being complied with.
4. Environmental Effects
2.44      The project would establish tree and food crops in areas of
secondary jungle and alang-alang where a poor economic and ecological
pattern of shifting cultivation is presently practiced. Standard soil
conservation methods would be followed to prevent soil erosion. With the
establishment of a leguminous cover crop, soil erosion will be reduced and
fertility would be improved by the application of fertilizers and crop
rotation of food crop land. The small quantities of chemicals used to
control alang alang, pests and diseases would have no significant adverse
environmental effects. The new rubber and palm oil factories would adopt
the appropriate effluent disposal standards and provide safeguards for the
health and safety of humans, fish and wildlife.



- 27 -
3. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
General
3.01      NES V SAR/1 (paras. 4.01-4.05 and Chart I) describes the organiza-
tion and functions of the Directorate General of Estates (DGE), public
sector estates, and other main government institutions involved in the tree
crop subsector. This is therefore not repeated here. Moreover, since
implementation arrangements and procedures are standardized and adequately
described in the above report, these are only briefly spelled out here.
Project Management and Implementaion
3.02      The DGE would have overall responsibility for executing the
project. The Team Khusus, within DGE, would have primary responsibility for
coordinating project implementation, while the estates would be responsible
for and mainly undertake the individual project works. These estates would
develop processing facilities and other estate civil works and plantings
with guidance and supervision from the estate sector planning/coordination
unit (para. 1.12).
3.03      Team Khusus (TK).  Team Khusus would coordinate project implemen-
tation for the DGE. Its specific functions would include assistance to the
project managers and nucleus estates to prepare annual work programs and
budgets, assistance with financial administration, guidance in technical,
engineering and project procurement and disbursement matters, monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation, and providing inspection services for
smallholder field development.
3.04      In line with the Bank's objective of delegating responsibility to
GOI agencies and recognizing the increasing capabilities of TK, it would be
given an additional responsibility under this project, namely appraisal of
the West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi components. The requirements for
appraisal and report writing were agreed to between the Bank, CDC and TK.
For these two components, subloan appraisal reports prepared by TK, and
approved by all concerned GOI agencies, would be submitted to the Bank/CDC
(only Bank in case of South Sulawesi) for approval, before they become
eligible for financing.
3.05      Team Khusus would supervise the land development components every
six months; in addition to reviewing the physical and financial progress, TK
would specifically review the detailed documentation supporting the SOE's.
Based on its supervision visit, and progress of other components, Team
Khusus would submit a report on the project's progress, no later than six
weeks from end of the semester, to the Bank and CDC using the format already
agreed to by the Bank and Team Khusus under earlier NES projects.
/1 Report No. 3342-IND.



- 28 -
3.06      Nucleus Estates.  The nucleus estates would be responsible for the
following:  (1) establishing the smallholdings, village infrastructure,
roads and processing facilities; (2) provision of extension after small-
holders receive control of their plots; (3) harvesting and collection,
including training of smallholders in these activities; (4) marketing its
own and smallholder production; (5) selling pesticides and fertilizers to
smallholders; (6) operation and maintenance of all estate roads, crop
collection tracks, and equipment, and processing facilities; and (7)
operating and maintaining, during project implementation only (para. 3.09),
access and village roads. To assist them in these works and services, the
estates would recruit consultants as stated in para. 2.20.  For both
smallholder and estate development, the First Director of the implementing
estate would be the project manager, and for the individual sites the estate
concerned would appoint one of its estates manager as site manager. The
project manager would be responsible for all matters relating to the
preparation of work programs and budgets. In addition they would have a
construction team, comprising an experienced civil engineer, a surveyor and
two surveyor's assistants, at each of the sites. The DGE would enter into a
Smallholder Development Agreement with the nucleus estates for tree crop
development, extension, processing and marketing services. The signing of
these agreements which are satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement for the smallholder development. These agreements have been
standardized for the NES projects.
3.07      As indicated in para. 1.32, in case of the South Sulawesi compo-
nent PNP XXVIII would contract out to PNP VII implementation of project
works during the development period. The responsibility of these two
estates would be outlined in a management contract. The terms and condi-
tions of this contract would be provided in the subloan appraisal report
(para. 3.04).
3.08      Provincial Governments.  The East and West Kalimantan and the
South Sulawesi provincial governments would supply the smallholders with
health, education, social and food crops extension services. The Chairman
of the Provincial Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA), assisted by the
nucleus estate project manager, would coordinate local government INPRES
programs to construct health and educational facilities.
3.09      After project completion, all access and village roads constructed
by the nucleus estates in the smallholder areas would be turned over to the
provincial governments who would be responsible for their maintenance.
Public buildings and community facilities constructed by the nucleus estates
for smallholders would be turned over to the appropriate ministries, which
would then assume responsibility for their operation and maintenance.
3.10      Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC).  Each provincial govern-
ment would estabish a PCC to assist the project; PCC's for East and West
Kalimantan have already been established. Its members would include the



- 29 -
heads of the various project area kabupatens (Bupatis), the heads of the
Provincial Estate Crops and Food Crops Services, the project manager (PTPs
First Director), the site managers, the provincial head of the BRI, and
representatives of other relevant provincial government agencies. Under the
project the PCC would: (a) arrange the construction, (under INPRES pro-
grams), of health and education facilities in the project areas; (b) arrange
for recruitment of prospective smallholders for the project to be accepted
by the project managers as suitable estate laborers; (c) expedite the
granting of hak milik to the smallholders; (d) ensure adequate food crop
extension services for the smallholders; and (e) establish pricing committees
(para. 4.05).
3.11      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).  The BRI would be the handling bank
for recovery of smallholder debt obligations. On behalf of GOI, BRI would
enter into smallholder credit agreements with each smallholder family when
the smallholder receives hak milik to his holding, about three years after
settlement. The nucleus estates would deduct and transfer to the BRI the
smallholders repayments from their production, which it would process and
market for him (para. 5.04). GOI would pay the BRI a handling fee of 1% or
less on the total outstanding loans for this service.
3.12      Bank Indonesia (BI).  The BI would make available funds to the
estates (see para. 2.34).
Settlement Arrangements
3.13      Settlement Recruitment.  At East and West Kalimantan sites the
smallholders would be all those with cultivation rights within the project
area, and small farmers (3.0 ha or less) selected from the project kecama-
tans and kabupatens. Any shortfall would be met by small farmers from other
kabupatens within the province and transmigrants from Java. For the South
Sulawesi component, smallholders would be recruited entirely from the exist-
ing farmers in the project kecamatans with preference given to the poorest
farmers; farmers owning more than 1 ha of sawah land would not be eligible.
At all sites, the PCC-s would select the smallholders, and with the help of
the estates transport them to the site. Each estate would hire one member
of each smallholder family as a regular estate laborer, and guarantee him or
her a regular job until the estates hand over to the smallholder family the
operation of its individual holding. To obtain control of their holdings
the smallholders must prove themselves satisfactory estate laborers/trainees
and willing to work and live on their tree crop holdings.
3.14      Land Allocation.  At all sites the PCC, in association with the
Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs (DGA), would provide all families
with the right of use to 1.0 ha for house, garden and food crops within one
year of project works commencement in the area (in case of existing
families) and within one year of their arrival (in case of new settlers).
Furthermore, the PCCs and DGA would provide the smallholders judged satis-
factory settlers with land ownership title (hak milik) to their entire



- 30 -
holding within three years after settlement. The hak milik would be
retained by BRI as security until full repayment of debt (para. 3.11). The
provincial and kabupaten DGA would do the cadastral survey necessary to
define each smallholder's holding.
4. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Agricultural Production
4.01      Incremental project production at full development would be 94,000
tons palm oil, 16,000 tons palm kernel, 48,000 tons rubber, and 39,000 tons
of food crops. Annex 3, Table 1 provides the tree crop yields and
production.
Market Prospects and Arrangement
4.02      Palm Oil.  Of Indonesia's total production (710,000 tons) in 1981,
about 53% (380,000 tons) was exported with the remaining 47% consumed domes-
tically; the latter's share having increased from about 15% in 1977 due to
the rapidly increasing domestic demand for fats and oil and shortfall in
coconut oil production. Total production is expected to increase to about
1.33 million tons in 1995; the project's output would represent about 15% of
the incremental production. Market prospects would remain favorable. By
1995 about 60% of the national production is expected to be consumed
domestically, with the remaining exported; exports in that year are
projected to be about 570,000 tons representing about 8% of the world
exports compared to about 12% at present. About 40% of the project's
production is expected to go to the local market with the remaining
exported. Smallholders would sell all their production through the nucleus
estate, with the latter selling through the JMO.
4.03      Rubber.  Most Indonesian rubber is exported.  In 1981, exports
were about 950,000 tons accounting for about 30% of world trade. Total
national production (and exports) in 1995 is projected to be about 1.4 mil-
lion tons; the project's production would represent about 12% of the
increase between 1981 and 1995. It is forecast that by 1995 Indonesia's
market share may decline to about 26% because of sharp production increases
in Thailand. The long-term outlook for natural rubber remains quite
favorable and Indonesia should have no difficulty selling its increased
rubber output. Under the project, smallholders would be required to sell
enough rubber (mainly latex, slab or lump) through the nucleus estate to
meet their debt repayment. By improving quality and marketing conditions,
the nucleus estate would be able to pay the smallholder about 70% of FOB
price (compared to 45-55% usually paid by middlemen) and this should
encourage them to sell most of their rubber through the estates. The
nucleus estates would sell through JMO.



- 31 -
4.04       Food Crops.  The smallholders would produce rice, corn, cassava,
legumes (peanuts), fruit and vegetables mainly for family consumption.
Surpluses and other production (e.g., cloves, coffee) would be sold in
adjacent market towns. Team Khusus, in collaboration with the estates,
would review the food crop market prospects in specific areas and would
advise the estates on the opportunities for food crop processing by the
estates. The estates may in turn use the short-term consultancies provided
in the project to review the economic justification of specific proposals.
Pricing
4.05       Pricing Mechanism and Arrangements.  Following procedures estab-
lished under the earlier NES projects, prices paid to the smallholders for
tree crops output would be calculated, taking into account such factors as
expenses of the estate in collecting, transporting, processing and marketing
of settler production, a return on the estates processing facilities
capital, and the importance of encouraging smallholders production and good
quality of their produce. To assist in estimating deductions, the PCC would
establish committees, including smallholder representatives, which would
meet monthly to set the price for the smallholder's produce. The DGE with
the assistance of the estates is currently undertaking a detailed review to
establish pricing formula to guide these committees. During harvesting
periods, the nucleus estates would pay all smallholders on a weekly basis,
whether they are producing rubber or oil palm. This would help ensure they
sell enough production through the nucleus estates to meet their debt
repayments (para. 5.04). Weekly payments providing regular cash would
reduce the likelihood of their selling through other channels for a more
regular cash supply. The efficacy of the pricing system would be assessed
during the in-depth review (para. 1.21) by which time the system would have
been in operation for about a year for smallholders under NES 1.
4.06       Prices.  For economic and financial analysis, inputs and outputs
have been valued at present and projected (1985, 1990 and 1995) prices
expressed in 1983 constant values. Future economic and financial prices for
rubber, oil palm, rice, corn, peanuts and fertilizers were derived from the
Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts for world market prices and adjusted
to the farmgate level for transportation, processing, and handling costs.
(Annex 3, Table 2). Crops not traded on the international markets have been
expressed in actual farmgate prices and adjusted for inflation. Agrochemi-
cals' economic prices have been assumed to remain constant in real terms.
The following financial prices (1983 constant terms) have been assumed for
rubber and palm oil: (1) Rubber. FOB price of Rp 970/kg in 1990,
Rp 1,010/kg in 1995 and thereafter. The nucleus estates would pay the
smallholder about 70% of FOB. (2) Palm Oil/Kernel. FOB price of Rp 362/kg
(palm oil) and Rp 213/kg (palm kernel) in 1990 and thereafter; smallholders
would receive about Rp 53/kg for their fresh fruit bunches (FFB) equivalent
to about 60% of FOB. Domestic palm oil prices are assumed to be same as
export prices; while in the past local prices were generally 10-20% lower,
presently the prices are at about the same level.



- 32 -
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS /1
Benefits
5.01       In addition to increased agricultural production (para. 4.01), the
project would directly benefit 18,850 smallholder families about 30% of
which have incomes below critical consumption level. It would provide full
time employment for another 4,000 families working for the estates. By
creating potential employment opportunities in other sectors to service the
agricultural settlements the project would indirectly benefit at least another
5,200 families. During the initial development period the project would pro-
vide each smallholder family with one full time job for four or five years,
and, as project beneficiaries are presently doing work of low productivity,
when the tree crops are bearing would create at least one new permanent job
per project family directly assisted or hired. The project would upgrade the
three-estates (PTP VI and XII, and PNP XXVIII). In addition, it would
increase rubber and palm oil exports and local supplies of palm oil, create
productive employment for the rural poor, and ensure a productive and sustain-
able use of underutilized land resources. The total value (in constant 1983
prices) of project's exports would be about $87 million at full development in
year 2003.
Financial Analysis - Smallholders
5.02       Settlement Costs per Family.  The base cost of settling a family
at the East Kalimantan site is about US$9,940 for an oil palm smallholder
and US$10,820 for a rubber smallholder (constant 1983 prices); the credit,
or repayable costs, are some 79% of the total settlement cost (Annex 3,
Table 3). Preliminary estimates indicate base costs to be US$11,050 and
US$10,500 for West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi respectively. As the
project would create about 22,850 new permanent jobs in agriculture (para.
5.01) for a total investment of US$275 million (base cost plus physical
contingencies), each job would cost US$12,000. This compares favorably with
job creation in medium- to large-scale industry in Indonesia at about
US$24,200.
5.03       Farm Incomes.  Table 5.1 below summarizes the changes in farm
incomes for a typical East Kalimantan smallholder. Detailed farm budgets
are provided in Annex 3, Tables 4 and 5. With the project it is expected
that total family incomes would reach at least US$2,800 by year 1992 (year
10), $560 per capita. During the development period the smallholder is
/1  For the South Sulawesi component, the estimates of benefits, base cost
of settling families, farm incomes, economic rates of return are based
on preliminary figures given in the preparation report. For the West
Kalimantan component these are expected to be similar to those for rubber
development under East Kalimantan, given the similarity of size and
agronomic/technical conditions.



- 33 -
ensured a steady income, as he would work as an estate laborer. As the
Table below indicates the smallholders would be able to meet their debt
payments without difficulty. Incomes from the project would result in
significant improvement in the relative income position of these families,
from about 10-15% of per-capita GNP at present (US$520) to 75-90% of the
estimated per capita GNP in 1992 (US$750). The impact of farm incomes for
the other two components is expected to be similar.
Table 5.1: EAST KALIMANTAN SMALLHOLDER FARM INCOME (US$)
(constant 1983 prices)
Rubber              Oil palm
Years                    3      10     15      3     10      15
Total income with project   800  2,830  3,560  1,410  3,310  3,150
Debt repayment                  -    710    420       -    570    350
Net income with project       800  2,120  3,140  1,410  2,740  2,800
Income without project        510    520    530    510    520    530
Incremental income            290  1,600  2,610    900  2,220  2,270
5.04      Cost Recovery.  The estates, following procedures established
under the earlier NES projects, would recover the credit items of
smallholder development costs (para. 2.33) partially retaining the sales
revenues of the crops they would process and market on their behalf. To
assist in this regard, the PCC would establish committees (para. 4.05). The
estates would deduct from the individual smallholder-s sales revenue an
amount sufficient to repay the annual loan installment; such payments would
not however exceed 30% of tree crop income. The estates would transfer all
cost recovery to BRI which would keep a record of all individual smallholder
accounts. Besides repaying all credit development items, smallholders would
pay a land tax, which village heads would collect and turn over to local and
provincial administrations for providing public services. This tax is
considered a direct project tax which contributes towards the operational
costs of the governmental agencies involved in the villages. Discounting at
10%, the estimated cost recovery and rent recovery indices for East
Kalimantan settlers is about 40% each (Annex 3, Table 6). The level of
indices for the unappraised components is expected to be similar.
Financial Analysis - Implementing PTPs
5.05      PTP VI.  It is financially sound-with total assets valued at over
Rp 89.7 billion (US$135.9 million), a healthy debt/equity ratio of 11/89,
and a net income of Rp 3.5 billion (US$5.3 million) in 1981. Income and
cash flow projections (Annex 3, Tables 7 and 8) indicate that new debt



- 34 -
obligations of the company will be easily repaid and it will have net income
of US$55.6 million (current) by 1995.
5.06       PTP XII.  It had total assets of Rp 42.3 billion (US$64.1 million),
D/E of 43/57, and net income of Rp 0.6 billion (US$0.9 million) in 1981.
While PTP XII's cash flow position has been tight in recent years because of
low tea prices (tea contributes about 80% of the income) and onerous terms
of existing debt, the future financing position is expected to be
satisfactory as a result of additional equity provided under NES VI, and
crop diversification policies currently under implementation. Net income in
1995 (current) is expected to increase to US$19.8 million and DIE would not
increase beyond 60/40 as agreed under NES VI (details in Project Files).
5.07       PNP XXVIII.  It had total assets of Rp 2.2 billion (US$3.3 million),
D/E of 70/30, and net loss of Rp 0.3 billion (US$0.4 million) in 1981.
Because of the small and inadequate production base, PNP XXVIII is expected
to make losses over the next few years. However, the situation is expected
to improve as a result of increase in production base under NES VI and NES
VII, additional equity provided and limit on development activities agreed
under NES VI and further injection of equity under this Project. Operations
would become profitable by 1990 and net income in 1995 would amount to about
US$4.5 million (details in Project Files).  Preliminary estimates indicate
that to maintain a satisfactory D/E (70:30 until 1979 and 60:40 thereafter
as agreed under NES VI), PNP XXVIII would need additional equity amounting
to about US$25.0 million under NES VII. The additional equity requirements
for PNP XXVIII would be finalized in the subloan appraisal report and agreed
to with GOI at the time of Bank approval.
Economic Analysis
5.08       For the East Kalimantan component, the estimated economic rate of
return over a 30-year (rubber) and 28-year (oil palm) period would be: (1)
smallholders: 17% (oil palm), 14% (rubber); and (2) nucleus estates: 12%
(oil palm), and 13% (rubber). These rates of return are based on the
following assumptions: (a) Investment costs are net of taxes and transfer
payments, and foreign exchange costs were converted to rupiah at Rp 660 =
US$1.00, assuming a standard conversion factor of 1.0. Investment costs
have been adjusted to reflect the economic value of fertilizers. Investment
costs are Rp 39.4 billion for smallholder rubber, Rp 27.7 billion for
smallholder oil palm, Rp 16.1 billion for estate rubber and Rp 31.6 billion
for estate oil palm. These costs represent the total development costs
except in the case of smallholders, the costs of health, education and
village facilities /1 have been excluded because the Government would have
provided these facilities even without the project; the costs of these
/1 Village offices, post offices, mosques, banks, sports grounds, markets
and other community facilities.



- 35 -
total Rp 4.6 billion for smallholder rubber and Rp 2.8 billion for small-
holder oil palm; (b) Shadow Wage Rate of Rp 1,100/manday which is the
weighted average cost of wages assumed for existing settlers and project
area smallholders (Rp 1,500/ manday /1) and transmigrants (Rp 600/manday/1);
and (c) Development Period. Smallholders would move to the sites during the
project's first year and start growing food crops during that year. They
would achieve the projected food crop yields over five years and projected
garden yields in 10 years. The cost and benefit streams are presented in
Annex 3, Tables 9 and 10.
5.09      Preliminary rates of return for the South Sulawesi component are
14% and 13% respectively for smallholders and nucleus estate; for West
Kalimantan they are expected to be similar to East Kalimantan rubber
development.
5.10      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
the East Kalimantan components' sensitivity to cost overruns, benefit reduc-
tions, and lags in benefit flows. Table 5.2 indicates the switching values
(percent change in parameter value which would reduce ERR to 10%) for a rise
in costs, fall in benefits or lag in benefits (in years). Switching values
range from 14-25% for benefits and 20-35% for costs. As the table indi-
cates, the rates of return are most sensitive to decrease in benefits i.e.
decline in commodity prices and/or yields. Projected yields are realistic
and based on actual experience in Indonesia and elsewhere; a 14% drop in
yields is unlikely. The prices (para. 4.06) used for estimating benefits
from rubber and oil palm development are close to the lowest level, for the
1950-80 period. While it is possible that during a short period of time the
prices may drop more than 14%, it is highly unlikely that average long term
prices would fall below those assumed. Considering that unit investment
costs for NES projects and operating costs for tree crops production are
well established, cost increases as large as those shown in Table 5.2 have a
low probability. Moreover, PTP VI's management should be able to minimize
such adverse movements in costs or implementation.
/1 Project and adjacent area farmers, 55%; and transmigrants, 45%.
For the former, shadow wage rate is assumed to be same as the
financial wage (Rp 1,500/manday) given the short supply of labor. For
transmigrants it is assumed to be 50% (Rp 600) of financial wage in
Java/Bali.



- 36 -
Table 5.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS - EAST KALIMANTAN COMPONENT
Smallholder      Nuclues estate
Rubber  Orl Palm   Rubber  Oil Palm
ERR - Base Case (x)               14         17        13        12
Switching Values
Increase in costs (%)           25         35        30        20
Decrease in benefits (%)        20         25        17        14
Lag in benefits (years)          2          3         3         1
Project Risks
5.11      There are no unusual 'technical risks for the proposed project.
The proposed agricultural practices, inputs and yields are based on
experience gained in estate development programs, and the earlier NES pro-
jects. Management weaknesses have existed in previous NES projects,
especially a diffusion of'management responsibility between the DOE, the
nucleus estate, the project manager and provincial governments. Since
mid-1980 these have been substantially reduced by delegating increased
authority to the nucleus estate, and by selecting the First Director of the
estate as a project manager. Consequently project management and
implementation have improved considerably.
5.12      At present PNP XXVIII is weak technically, managerially and finan-
cially. However, with the measures already taken to strengthen it under NES
VI and training and assistance to be provided by PNP VII, it would be able
to manage the project after PNP VII departs. In earlier Bank assisted
projects the implementing estates were also weak. However, with project
assistance they all have developed into strong financial and managerial
entities.
5.13      There is a risk that smallholders would not sell their rubber
production to the nucleus estates, and the estates would thus be unable to
recover smallholder loans. However, because the estates would operate the
harvest collection services, they would be in a strong position to monitor
the flow of smallholder production and to take action if the smallholders
did not repay loans. The smallholders, through their Credit Agreements with
the BRI, are legally bound to repay through the nucleus estates. Addition-
ally, to keep their processing facilities operating at full capacity, the
estates would act competitively to obtain the smallholders' production.
Also, the project provides that the estates pay the smallholders weekly thus
ensuring they have a regular cash income, which should make cash sales at
lower unit prices to middlemen less attractive.



- 37 -
5.14      Taking the above safeguards into account, and along with the results
of the sensitivity analysis, the project's indicated risks are judged
acceptable.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on the following points:
(a) submission to the Bank by September 30, 1983 an estate sector
investment and financing plan (para. 1.19);
(b) procurement would be undertaken in the manner specified in paras.
2.36-2.41; and
(c) project accounts would be maintained and audited in the manner
specified in para. 2.43.
6.02      Agreement was also reached with the Government on the following
conditions of disbursement against individual project components:
(a) Nucleus Estates: The signing of subsidiary loan agreement
between the MOF/BI and the individual estates (para. 2.34);
(b) West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi component: Approval of GOI's
appraisal reports by the Bank/CDC and agreement by GOI of
Bank/CDC conditions of approval (para. 3.04); and
(c) Smallholder Development: The signing of smallholder development
agreements between the DGE and the nucleus estates (para. 3.06).
6.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$154.6 million with a 20-year maturity includ-
ing a grace period of five years, and a CDC loan of US$30 million on similar
terms. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 38 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
NES PROJECTS - PROGRESS OF TREE CROP PLANTINGS (HA)
(End-March 1982)
NES I    NES II  NES III  NES IV    NEX V   NES VI  TOTAL
------------------------- (ha) -----------------
INDIVIDUAL CROPS
Rubber
Smallholder - Planned /a   9,715   10,350    9,750          -      400       200  30,415
- Actual /b    8,690    8,297    9,012         -       400      200  26,599
Estate      - Planned      21,300    1,500    7,845         -      500    1,770  32,915
- Actual       26,832    2,037    8,981        -        79    1,770  39,699
Oil Palm
Smallholder - Planned           -         -        -   1,140       500         -   1,640
- Actual            -        -         -   1,140       500        -   1,640
Estate      - Planned       5,000         -    5,374        -      400         -  10,774
- Actual        5,630        -    5,374        -       400        -  11,404
Coconut
Smallholder - Planned           -         -        -        -      770         -     770
- Actual            -        -         -       -       900        -      900
Estate      - Planned       4,200         -        -        -      250       730   5,180
- Actual        4,255        -         -       -       192      730   5,177
SUBTOTAL
Smallholder - Planned       9,715   10,350    9,750   1,140    1,670         200  32,825
- Actual        8,690    8,297    9,012   1,140    1,800        200  29,139
(Percentage completed)      (89)      (80)     (92)   (100)    (108)    (100)    (89)
Estate      - Planned      30,500    1,500   13,219         -    1,150    2,500  48,869
- Actual       36,717    2,037   14,355        -       671    2,500  56,280
(Percentage completed)    (120)    (136)    (109)         -      (58)    (100)   (115)
TOTAL
- Planned     40,215   11,850   22,969   1,140    2,820    2,700  81,694
- Actual       45,407   10,334   23,367   1,140    2,471    2,700  85,419
(Percentage completed)      (89)      (87)    (102)   (100)      (88)    (100)   (105)
- total
program /c  48,690   26,200   46,519   8,000   45,600   26,490 201,499
(Percentage completed)      (93)      (39)     (50)    (14)       (5)      (10)    (42)
/a  Planned for completion by March 1982.
/b Actual completed by March 1982.
/c Total program under project.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Mean Annual Rainfall at Sites
(Minimum of ten-year recording)
Pasir                  Sambas                   Luwu
Rainfall  Rain days   Rainfall   Rain days   Rainfall   Rain days
Month           (mm)        (no.)        (mm)        (no.)        (mm)         (no.)
January          295         14.5         263          11          305          11.5
February         248        11.7          269          10          282          11.5
March            321         14.7         174           8          295          12.2
April            237         13.3         193           9          302          13.6
May              203         12.0         221          11          315          14.5
June             158         10.6         172           8          291          16.3
July             135          8.7         136           8          219          14.0
August           105          6.8         188           7          250          12.3
September        101          7.0         282          11          272          12.5
October          114          7.4         334          13          123           7.4
November         183         10.8         380          16          223          11.8
December         243         13.7         394          16          299          18.0
Total        2,343       131.2       2,998          128        3,177        155.6



- 40 -                                    ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Phasing of Tree Crop Planting Program
(ha)
Pre-project
GOI FY                    1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   Total
Rubber
PTP VI (East Kalimantan)
- NE                          -       700       500       500       800         -    2,500
- SH                        500    1,000    2,500    2,500    2,200    3,000   11,700
Subtotal                500    1,700    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000   14,200
FTP XII (West Kalimantan)
NE                         270        730    1,000    1,000           -         -    3,000
SH                       3,830    2,170    2,000    2,000    2,000              -   12,000
Subtotal              4,100/b  2,900    3,000    3,000    2,000             -   15,000
Oil Palm
PTP VI (East Kalimantan)
- NE                          -       200       800    1,000    1,000           -    3,000
- SH                     2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    1,000              -    9,000
Subtotal              2,000    2,200    2,800    3,000    2,000             -   12,000
PNP XXVIII (South Sulawesi)
- NE                        100    1,000    1,000    1,500          400         -    4,000
- SH                        400       500    1,000    1,250    1,250          600    5,000
Subtotal                500    1,500    2,000    2,750    1,650           600    9,000
Total Project
- NE                        370    2,630    3,300    4,000    2,200             -   12,500
- SH                     6,730    5,670    7,500    7,750    6,450    3,600   37,700
Total                 7,100    8,300   10,800   11,750    8,650    3,600   50,200
/a NE = nucleus estate
SH = smallholder
/b About 1,100 ha of this planted in 1981/82.



- 41 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Project Processing Factories - Installed Capacity
Installed pro-
Estimated         cessing capacity
Commodity       production/a       Under   Maximum
Site            Crop     processed   1988/b 1992   Peak  project  required
East Kalimantan   Rubber       L & S /c       20    800  2,800       800    2,800
(ton/mo.)
Oil palm       FFB         20     40      69      35        70
(ton/hr.)
West Kalimantan/d Rubber        L.& S        190    990  3,000   1,000    3,000
(ton/mo.)
South Sulawesi/d  Oil palm        FFB          8     33      55       30       55
(ton/hr.)
/a Where relevant estimated daily production includes nucleus estate and small-
holders.
/b Final year of project implementation.
/c L & S refers to latex and slab.
/d Preliminary.



- 42 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
EAST KALIMANTAN COMPONENT
Processing Factories - Implementation Schedule
Rubber       Oil palm
Activities                            factory        factory
1.  Appointment of engineering consultants./a           11/85         12/82
2. Site survey and soil tests for location
of factory site.                                  01-02/86      01-02/83
3. Preparation of engineering drawings,
specifications and tender documents
for civil and building works.                     03-05/86      03-05/83
4. Preparation of engineering drawings,
specifications and tender documents
for mechanical and electrical works.              03-07/86      04-10/83
5. Receipt of tenders, tender evaluation and
award of civil contract.                          08/86         08/83
6.  Site entry.                                         10/86         09/83
7. Receipt of tenders, tender evaluation and
award of mechanical and electrical
contracts.                                        10/86         12/83
8.  Completion of civil contract.                       12/87         02/85
9.  Completion of mechanical and electrical
contracts.                                        03/88         01/86
10. Phase 1 start-up.                                   04/88         02/86
/a In case of oil palm factory, PTP VI would be hiring only short-term
consultants for activities 2,3 and 4. In case of rubber the consul-
tants would be engaged upto start-up.



- 43 -                                              ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEITS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
CONSULTING SERVICES
Requirements and Implementation Schedule
| 1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88 j Total
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____   ________    ___ _    __  |_ _  |manmonth
Il I              I          I                    I
Ministry of Agriculture/DGE             I                               I          I
Manpower Specialist  a                                ---------1---------1---------
Processing Engineer (rubber) /a                   ---------1---------1---------
Processing Engineer (palm oilfF/a   I            1---------I------ I---------I
Production Inspector /a                           ---------1---------1---------
Materials Management Specialist /a                          ---------1------------------
Information Management Specialist /a                       1---------1---------I---------I
International Marketing and Trading              ---------1---------1---------
Specialist /a
Project Implementation and
Evaluation Specialist /a                                  ---------------------------
Planning Advisor /a                                                    ------------------
Smallholder Marketing Specialist /b              ---------1------------------
Subtotal                                     I                     I                    I  180
PTP VI                                  I          I          I         I
Processing Engineer (rubber)                  -------------------
Rubber Agronomist                           ----------------------- 
Short-term consultants                     --    -----------------                         I
Subtotal                           I                    I                    I          I  108
PTP XII                                                      I 
Processing Engineer (rubber)                      -----------------               
Short-term consultants                                      --------- ---------
Subtotal                           I         I          I          I         I          I   72
PNP XXVIII                              I          I          i
Short-term consultants                             -------1------------------
Unidentified consultant                                    ---------------------------
Subtotal                           I         I          I          I         I          I   72
Total                              I                    I                               I  432
/a  Implementation schedule and length of contract is tentative and would be finalized upon
completion of institutional restructuring of SBPN (para. 1.12).
/b Details would be included in proposal detailing the pilot program (para. 2.22).



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates /a
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
(Rp million) -----  --- (US$ million) ---    (x)
East Kalimantan (PTP VI)
Rubber Nucleus Estate
Rubber establishment                      1,772   1,530    3,302    2.69    2.32    5.01    46
Roads                                        103     220       323    0.16    0.33    0.49    68
Estate housing & buildings                2,014   1,740    3,754    3.05    2.64    5.69    46
Rubber processing                           299      391       690    0.45    0.59    1.04    57
Power & water                                 46.     99       145    0.07    0.15    0.22    68
Road construction equipment                    -     414       414    -         0.63    0.63   100
Agric. machinery & equipment                   -     111       111    -         0.17    0.17   100
Estate vehicles                               26     157       183    0.04    0.24    0.28    86
Office furniture & equipment                  49      52       101    0.07    0.08    0.15    51
Operating expense                            193     136       329    0.29    0.21    0.50    41
Staff resettlement                           37       17        54    0.06    0.03    0.09    31
Working capital                               99     420       519    0.15    0.64    0.79    81
Base Costs                             4,638   5,287    9,925    7.03    8.03   15.06    53
Physical contingencies                       576     628    1,204    0.87    0.95    1.82    52
Price contingencies                       1,344.    984    2,328    2.04    1.49    3.53    42
Subtotal                               6,558   6,899   13,457    9.94   10.47   20.41    51
Oil Palm Nucleus Estate
Oil palm establishment                    2,168   1,527    3,695    3.29    2.31    5.60    41
Roads                                        283     608       891    0.43    0.92    1.35    68
Estate housing & buildings                2,664   2,302    4,966    4.03    3.49    7.52    46
Oil palm processing                       2,664   6,676    9,340    4.04   10.12   14.16    71
Power & water                                 46      99       145    0.07    0.15    0.22    68
Road construction equipment                    -     471       471    -        0.71    0.71   100
Agric. machinery & equipment                   -     237       237    -         0.36    0.36   100
Estate vehicles                               74     442       516    0.11    0.67    0.78    86
Office furniture & equipment                  44      46        90    0.07    0.07    0.14    51
Operating expense                            217     152       369    0.33    0.23    0.56    41
Staff resettlement                            22      11        33    0.03    0.02    0.05    33
Working capital                               83     787       870    0.13    1.19    1.32    90
Base Costs                             8,265  13,358   21,623   12.53   20.24   32.77    62
Physical contingencies                     1,030   1,514    2,544    1.56    2.30    3.86    60
Price contingencies                       2,622   2,856    5,478    3.97    4.32    8.29    52
Subtotal                              11,917  17,728   29,645   18.06   26.86   44.92    60
/a  US$ totals may not exactly equal Rupiah amounts due to rounding.



-45-                                         ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 2
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
---- (Rp million)         --- (US$ million) ---    (%)
Rubber Smallholders
Rubber establishment                     7,303   6,310   13,613   11.07    9.56   20.63    46
Roads                                      430      922    1,352    0.65    1.40    2.05    68
Land clearing for food crops,
gardens & villages                       482      417      899    0.73    0.63    1.36    46
Settler housing, water & sanitation    2,829   2,445    5,274    4.29    3.70    7.99    46
Village infrastructure                     317      273       590    0.48    0.41    0.89    46
Education & health buildings             1,417   1,225    2,642    2.15    1.86    4.01    46
Road construction equipment                  -   1,497    1,497    -          2.27    2.27   100
Agricultural machinery & equipment           -      576       576    -       0.87    0.87   100
Education & health equipment &
supplies                                  52      218      270    0.08    0.33    0.41    81
Settler subsistence, seeds and ferti-
lizer packages                           525      185      710    0.80    0.28    1.08    26
Operating costs                          1,195      842    2,037    1.81    1.28    3.09    41
Related estate housing                     671      580    1,251    1.02    0.89    1.91    46
Related estate vehicles                     12       72        84    0.02    0.11    0.13    86
Base Costs                           15,233  15,562   30,795   23.10   23.59   46.69    51
Physical contingencies                   1,785   1,783    3,568    2.70    2.70    5.40    50
Price contingencies                      5,956   3,813    9,769    9.02    5.77   14.79    39
Subtotal                             22,974  21,158   44,132   34.82   32.06   66.88    48
Oil Palm Smallholders
Oil palm establishment                   6,266   4,411   10,677    9.49    6.68   16.17    41
Roads                                      506   1,083    1,589    0.77 - 1.64    2.41    68
Land clearing for food crops,
gardens & villages                       301      261      562    0.46    0.40    0.86    46
Settler housing, water & sanitation    2,219   1,917    4,136    3.36    2.90    6.26    46
Village infrastructure                     211      182       393    0.32    0.28    0.60    46
Education & health buildings               774      668    1,442    1.17    1.01    2.18    46
Road construction equipment                  -   1,218    1,218    -         1.85    1.85   100
Agricultural machinery & equipment           -      357      357    -        0.54    0.54   100
Education & health equipment &
supplies                                  28      119      147    0.04    0.18    0.22    81
Settler subsistence, seeds and ferti-
lizer packages                           328      116      444    0.50    0.18    0.68    26
Operating costs                            940      661    1,601    1.42    1.00    2.42    41
Related estate housing                     472      409      881    0.72    0.62    1.34    46
Related estate vehicles                      9       56       65    0.01    0.08    0.09    86
Base Costs                           12,054  11,458   23,512   18.26   17.36   35.62    49
Physical contingencies                   1,389   1,304    2,693    2.10    1.98    4.08    48
Price contingencies                      3,682   2,233    5,915    5.58    3.38    8.96    38
Subtotal                             17,125  14,995   32,120   25.94   22.72   48.66    47



- 46 -                                                  ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 3
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
---- (Rp million) -----  --- (US$ million) ---    (%)
West Kalimantan (PTP XII) /a
Rubber Nucleus Estate
Rubber establishment                        1,783   1,541    3,324    2.70    2.33    5.03    46
Roads                                         155      332       487    0.23    0.50    0.73    68
Estate housing & buildings                  2,418   2,089    4,507       3.66    3.17    6.83    46
Rubber processing                             619      654     1,273    0.94    0.99    1.93    51
Power & water                                  55      119       174    0.08    0.18    0.26    68
Road construction equipment                     -      492       492    -         0.75    0.75   100
Agricultural machinery & equipment              -      182       182    -         0.28    0.28   100
Estate vehicles                                26      157       183    0.04    0.24    0.28    86
Office furniture & equipment                   40      239       279    0.06    0.36    0.42    86
Operating expense                             194      137       331    0.29    0.21    0.50    41
Staff resettlement                             91       41       132    0.14    0.06    0.20    31
Working capital                                99      420       519    0.15    0.64    0.79    81
Base Costs                              5,480   6,403   11,883    8.29    9.71   18.00    54
Physical contingencies                        684      763     1,447     1.04    1.16    2.20    53
Price contingencies                         1,476   1,081    2,557    2.24        1.64    3.88    42
Subtotal                                7,640   8,247    15,887    11.57   12.51   24.08    52
Rubber Smalholders
Rubber establishment                        6,361   5,495   11,856    9.64    8.33   17.97    46
Roads                                         388      831     1,219    0.59    1.26    1.85    68
Settler housing, water & sanitation         2,900   2,505    5,405    4.39    3.80    8.19    46
Village infrastructure                        323      280       603    0.49    0.42    0.91    46
Land clearing for food crops,
gardens & villages                          494      428       922    0.75    0.65       1.40    46
Education & health buildings                1,452   1,255    2,707    2.20        1.90    4.10    46
Road construction equipment                     -   1,324      1,324    -         2.01     2.01   100
Agricultural machinery & equipment              -      602       602    -         0.91    0.91   100
Education & health equipment and
supplies                                     53      222       275    0.08    0.34    0.42    81
Settler subsistence, seeds & ferti-
lizer packages                              448      158       606    0.68    0.24    0.92    26
Operating costs                             1,040      732     1,772     1.58    1.11    2.69    41
Base Costs                             13,459  13,832   27,291   20.40   20.97   41.37           51
Physical contingencies                      1,580   1,585    3,165    2.39    2.40    4.79    50
Price contingencies                         4,357   2,846    7,203    6.60    4.31    10.91    40
Subtotal                               19,396  18,263   37,659   29.39   27.68   57.07    49
/a Preliminary.



47 -                                           ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 4
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
---  (Rp million) -----  --- (US$ million) ---    (71)
South Sulawesi (PNP XXVIII) /a
Oil Palm Nucleus Estate
Oil Palm establishment                      3,336   2,349      5,685    5.05    3.56    8.61    41
Roads                                         377      807    1,184    0.57       1.22     1.79    68
Estate housing & buildings                  3,543   3,061      6,604     5.37    4.64    10.01    46
Oil palm processing                         2,520   5,401    7,921       3.82    8.18   12.00    68
Power & water                                 137      295       432    0.21    0.45    0.66    68
Road construction equipment                     -      655       655    -         0.99    0.99   100
Agric. machinery & equipment                    -      339       339    -         0.51    0.51    100
Estate vehicles                                54      320       374    0.08    0.48    0.56    86
Office furniture & equipment                   44       46        90    0.07    0.07    0.14    51
Staff resettlement                             92       41       133    0.14    0.06    0.20    31
Operating costs                               333      234       567    0.50    0.35    0.85    41
Working capital                               104      987     1,091    0.16      1.50    1.66    90
Base Costs                             10,540  14,535   25,075   15.97   22.01   37.98           58
Physical contingencies                      1,288   1,730    3,018       1.95    2.62      4.57    57
Price contingencies                         3,918   3,337    7,255    5.94    5.05   10.99    46
Subtotal                               15,746  19,602   35,348   23.86   29.68   53.54    55
Oil Palm Smallholders
oil palm establishment                      3,262   2,297      5,559    4.94    3.48    8.42    41
Roads                                         306      656       962    0.46    0.99       1.45    68
Land clearing for food crops,
gardens & villages                          182      157       339    0.28    0.24       0.52    46
Settler housing, water & sanitation         1,022      884     1,906    1.55    1.34    2.89    46
Village infrastructure                        179      154       333    0.27    0.23    0.50    46
Education & health buildings                  300      260       560    0.45    0.39    0.84    46
Road construction equipment                     -      562       562    -         0.85    0.85   100
Agric. machinery & equipment                    -      196       196    -         0.30    0.30   100
Education & health equipment &
supplies                                     11       45        56    0.02    0.07    0.09    80
Settler subsistence, seeds and ferti-
lizer packages                              244       86       330    0.37    0.13    0.50    26
Operating costs                               326      229       555    0.49    0.35    0.84    41
Base Costs                              5,832   5,526   11,358    8.83    8.37   17.20    49
Physical contingencies                        658      618    1,276      1.00    0.94      1.94    48
Price contingencies                         2,630   1,486    4,116    3.98    2.25    6.23    36
Subtotal                                9,120   7,630   16,750   13.81    11.56   25.37    46
Technical Assistance and Program Support
SBPN/DGE                                      468   1,637    2,105    0.71        2.48    3.19    78
Marketing improvement                         138      197       335    0.21    0.30    0.51        59
Participating PTPs                            812   1,452    2,264    1.23    2.20    3.43    64
Start-up funds                             2,387   8,726   11,113    3.61   13.22   16.83    79
Base Costs                              3,805  12,012   15,817    5.76   18.20   23.96    76
Physical countingencies                       126      396       522    0.19    0.60    0.79    76
Price contingencies                           312      924    1,236    0.47       1.40    1.87    75
Subtotal                                4,243  13,332   17,575    6.42   20.20   26.62          76
TOTAL
Base Costs                             79,306  97,973  177,279  120.17  148.48  268.65    55
Physical contingencies                      9,116  10,321   19,437   13.80   15.65   29.45          53
Price contingencies                       26,297  19,560   45,857   39.84   29.61   69.45    43
Total Project Costs                         114,719 127,854  242,573  173.81  193.74  367.55    53
/a Preliminary



- 48 -                                  ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLE!TS ESTATES AND SMALLROLOERS VII PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Total                 Financed by /a
project                                   Suppliers
costs        0OI    IBRD /b    CDC        credit
East Kalimantan (PTP VI)
Smallholders /c                  115.5       62.6       39.7      13.2        -
Nucleus estate /d                  65.3      29.4       22.4       7.5        6.0
Subtotal                      180.8       92.0       62.1      20.7        6.0
West Kalimantan (PTP XII)
Smallholders /c                   57.1       31.1       19.5       6.5        -
Nucleus estate /d                  24.1       12.4       8.3       2.8        0.6
Subtotal                       81.2       43.5       27.8       9.3        0.6
South Sulawesi (PNP XXVIII) /e
Smallholders                      25.4       13.5       11.9       -          -
Nucleus estate                     53.5      29.3       24.2       -          -
Subtotal                       78.9       42.8       36.1       -          -
Program Support /f
SBPNTDGE                           3.2        _          3.2       -          _
FTP VI                              1.6       -           1.6      -          -
PTP XII                             1.1       -           1.1      -
PNP XXVIII                          1.1       -           1.1      -          -
Smallholder marketing LE           0.6        0.3        0.3       -          -
Start-up funds                     19.0       -         19.0       -          -
Subtotal                       26.6        0.3       26.3       -          -
Front-End Fee                         2.3       -           2.3      -          -
Total Project                 369.8      178.6      154.6      30.0        6.6
/a  The Bank and CDC would disburse jointly against the East and West Kalimantan
categories. CDC would not he disbursing for South Sulawesi and Program
Support and Technical Assistance categories.
/b  About 6% from each category has been put in the unallocated category,
in schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.
/c  Bank would reimburse 34% and CDC 12% of the funds given to PTP by MOF.
/d  Bank would reimburse 34% and CDC 12% of the loans given to PTP by BI
and MOF.
/e  Bank would reimburse 46% of funds given to PTPs by MOF for smallholder
development and by BI and MOF for nucleus estate development.
/f  Bank would reimburse 100% of the cost of all consultant services, training
and start-up expenditures for future Bank-assisted NES projects.
/g  These funds are included under DGE in Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement.



- 49 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(X)
Cumulative disbursements
NES VII                         NES         Area
IBRD fiscal year         (US$ million)         %          projects  development /c
and semester                         ---- (%)                          -------
FY83
Second                      3.2/b            2              -          0.7
FY84
First                       4.6              3              1          4
Second                     15.4             10              4          9
FY85
First                      23.1             15             11         15
Second                     38.7             25             21         22
FY86
First                      54.1             35             31         30
Second                     80.4             52             44         39
FY87
First                     105.1             68             60         48
Second                    123.6             80             78         57
FY88
First                     146.9             95             93         66
Second /a                 154.6            100            100         74
/a  Closing Date:  December 1988.
/b Includes capitalized front-end fee.
/c Disbursement pattern for area development projects in East Asia and
Pacific Region.



- 50 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Tree Crop Yields and Production
A. Rubber
PTP VI                          PTP XII ja
Planting  Tapping              Yield      Production           Yield      Production
year      year            SH      NE                      SH      NE
-(ton/ha)-   ('000 tons)        -(ton/ha)-  ('000 tons)
6         1             0.5    0.8        0.2           0.5    0.8        0.6
7         2             0.7     1.0       1.4           0.7     1.0       2.3
8         3             1.0     1.2       3.5           0.9     1.2       4.4
9         4             1.0     1.5       6.2           0.9     1.5       8.9
10         5             1.1     1.8       9.6           1.0     1.8      11.9
11         6             1.2    2.0       13.1           1.1    2.0       14.8
12         7             1.3    2.0       15.5           1.3    2.0       16.5
13         8             1.4    2.0       17.3           1.4    2.0       18.3
14         9             1.4    2.0       18.7           1.5    2.0       20.2
15        10             1.5    2.0       19.8           1.5    2.0       21.3
17        12             1.6    2.0       21.6           1.6    2.0       23.8
20        15             1.5     1.9      22.9           1.5     1.9      25.0
25        20             1.2     1.8      20.7           1.2     1.8      21.7
30        25             0.8     1.8      17.0           0.8     1.8      18.1
B. Oil Palm
PTP VI                            PTP XXVIII /a
Yield        Production /b          Yield         Production /c
Year            NE         SH      Oil   Kernel   NE            SH      Oil   Kernel
(ton FFB/ha)       ('000 tons)      (ton FFB/ha)        ('000 tons)
3 (6 mos.)    5           4      1.3    0.2        5           4      0.5    0.1
4             12          8      4.3    0.7       14          12      2.9    0.7
5             16         14    10.8      1.8      18          16      8.1     1.7
6            20          17    20.1      3.5      20          18    16.1    3.0
7            21          18    30.5      5.4      22          20    25.2    4.4
8            22          19    40.1      7.3      22          20    32.7      5.4
9            22          19    46.6      8.5      22          20    37.7    6.1
10            22          19    50.2      9.2      22          20    40.0    6.5
11            22          19    51.8      9.4      22          20    41.2    6.6
12            22          19    52.1      9.5      22          20    41.5    6.6
13             21         19    51.7      9.4      22          19    41.0    6.5
15            21          18    51.3      9.3      21          18    40.7    6.4
20             17         15    50.8    9.2         17         15    40.1    6.3
25             15         13    50.2      9.2       15         13    38.7    6.1
/a  Preliminary.
Lb  Extraction rate (%):  16,18,20,21 and 22 thereafter (palm oil);
2.5,3.0,3.5 and thereafter (kernel).
/ 3.2,3.3,3. re          12f16 26 arndcli  thereafter (palm oil);



- 51 -                                                   ANNEX 3
- 51 -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SNkLLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Agricultural Commodities and Inputs Price Structure /a
(Rp '000 and IJS$/ton in constant 1983 prices)
1983                1985                1990                1995
Rp'000/  USs/ton  Rp'000/  US$/ton  Rp'000/  tlSS/ton  Rp'OOO/  UJSS/ton
ton                 ton                 ton                 ton
Rubber
RSSI, CIF New York                                891     1,350       975    1,477      1,131     1,714    1,172    1,776
SIR20, CIF New York (93% of RSSI)                 828    1,255        906    1,374    1,052    1,594    1,090    1,652
Shipping and insurance                            -83      -127       -83      -127       -83      -127       -83      -127
SIR20, FOB Indonesian port                        745    1,128        823    1,247        969     1,467    1,nO7    1,525
Palm oil
Nalaysian, CIF Europe                             370       560       418       634       423        641       421       639
Shipping and insurance                            -41       -62       -41       -62       -41       -62       -41        -62
FOB Indonesian port                               329       498       377       572       382        579       380       577
Export taxes (5% of FOB)                          -17       -25       -19       -29       -19        -29       -19       -29
Financial price, FOB Indonesian port              312       473       358       543       363        590       361       548
Palm kernel
Nigerian, CIF U.K.                                211       320       262       396       268        407       261       395
Shipping and insurance                            -41       -62       -41       -62       -41       -62       -41        -62
FOB Indonesian port                               170       258       221       334       227        345       220       333
Rice/paddy
Thai 5% broken, FOB Bangkok                       246       373       308       468       308        468       304       461
Quality adjustment, Indonesian
imports (90% of Thai 51 broken)                 222       336       278       421       278       421       274       415
Freight and insurance                              17        25        17        25         17        25        17        29
Port and Bulog handling                            16        24         16       24         16        24        16        24
Transport to wholesalers                           15        23         15       23         15        23        15        23
Handling, transport mill to wholesaler             -4        -6        -4        -6        -4         -6        -4        -6
Rice, ex-mill project area                        266       402       322       487       322       498        318       481
Paddy equivalent (63% recovery)                   168       253       203       307       203        107       200       303
Milling costs less value of by-products            -2        -3        -2        -3        -2         -3        -2        -3
Drying and cleaning                                -2        -3        -2        -3        -2         -3        -2        -3
Handling, transport, farm to mill                  -2        -3        -2        -3         -2        -3        -2        -3
Farmgate paddy price                              162       244       197       298        197       298       194       294
(Financial farmgate price)                       (145)               (177)               (177)                (175)
Maize
Export price, FOB US Gulf port                     85       129        99       151        103       156       103       156
Freight and insurance                              30        45        30        45         30        45        30        45
Port handling                                       6         9         6          9         6         9         6         9
Wholesaler to port                                 15        23         15       23         15        23        15        23
Transport, farm to wholesalers                     -5        -8        -5        -8        -5         -8        -5        -8
Farmgate price                                    131       198       145       220        149       225       149       225
(Financial farmgate price)                       (110)               (121)               (125)               (125)
Peanut
Peanut shelled, FOB Nigeria /b                    277       420       393        595      415        628       402       610
Freight and insurance                              24        37        24         37        24        37        24        37
Port handling                                       6         9         6          9         6         9         6         9
Transport, wharf to wholesaler                     15        23         15        23        15        23        15        23
Transport, subdistrict to wholesaler               -4        -6        -4        -6        -4         -6        -4        -6
Transport, farm to subdistrict market              -2        -3        -2        -3         -2        -3        -2        -3
Farmgate price peanut shelled                     316       480       432       655       454        688       441       670
Farmgate price peanut unshelled (80%)             253       384       346       524       363        550       353       536
(Financial farmgate price)                       (430)               (588)               (617)                (600)
Urea
Urea, FOB Europe                                  138       210       155       235        193       292       200       303
Ex-factory Palembang /c                           149       225       165       250        203       307       210       318
Handling, distribution to retail level             22        33         22        33        22        33        22        33
Transport to farm                                   5         8          5         8         5         8         5         8
Farmgate price                                    176       266       192       291       230        348       237       359
(Financial farmgate price)                        (75)                (82)                (98)                (101)
Triple superphosphate (TSP)
TSP, FOB US Gulf port                             118       180       126       191        142       215       142       215
Freight and insurance                              36        54        36         54        36        54        16        54
Handling, distribution to retail level             18        27         18        27        18        27        18        27
Transport to farm                                   5         8          5         8         5         8         5         8
Farmgate price                                    177       269       185       280       201        304       201       304
(Financial farmgate price)                        (75)                (78)                (85)                 (85)
/a  Financial (farmgate) prices estimated by the mission to rise at the same rate as economic prices.
/b  Equal to standard price projections, CIF Europe, minus $30/ton freight and insurance from Nigeria to Europe.
77 IBRD price projections for bagged urea FOB Europe have been adjusted to Asian markets by adding a transport
premium of US$15/ton.



ANNEX 3
- 52 -                           Table 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Development Cost Per Smallholder Family: East Kalimantan
----  Pasir -----   ----- Pasir -----
Oil palm               Rubber
Credit  Noncredit   Credit  Noncredit
------ (early-1983, US$/family) -----
Tree crop establishment                     4,454         -       5,216         -
Roads                                            -      537           -       386
Land clearing for village, food crops         243         -         243         -
Settler housing                             1,204       189       1,204       189
Village infrastructure                           -      132           -       132
Education and health                             -      534           -       534
Road construction equipment                    406        -         382         -
Agri. machinery & vehicles                     116        -         145         -
Subsistence, fertilizer & seeds                186        -         186         -
Overheads                                     392       195         511       246
Others                                           _      340           -       340
Base Cost                              7,001    1,927       7,887    1,827
Physical contingencies                        760       252         851       257
Cost per Family                        7,761    2,179       8,738    2,084
Total Cost (credit + noncredit)        9,940               10,822



- 53 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONES IA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SNALLNOLDERS VII PROJECT
East Kalimantan. Existing Settlers /a
Farm Budgets - Present and Future Without Project
Future
Without
Item                          Present           Project
Land Use (ha)
Paddy - rainfed sawah                  0.36             0.36
- dryland                        0.50             0.50
Rubber                                 0.26             0.26
Coffee                                 0.04             0.04
Rattan                                 0.85             0 85
Homeyard                               0.25             0.25
Total                               2.26             2.26
Harvested Area (ha) lb
Paddy - rainfed sawah                  0 36             0.36
- dryland                        0.50             0.50
Rubber                                 0.17             0.26
Coffee                                 0.01             0.04
Rattan                                 0.50             0.85
Homeyard - Clove                       0 002            0.02
- Coconut                     0 040            0.04
- Cassava                     0 050            0.05
Total Harvested Area                1.632            2.12
Crop Production (kg/farm) /c           1,000.0         1,080.0
Paddy                                   40.0            70.0
Rubber                                   1.0              2.0
Coffee                                 250.0           430.0
Rattan                                   0.1             1.0
Clove                                   16.0            20.0
Coconut (nuts)                         100.0           100.0
Cassava
Gross Production Value (Rp '000)
Paddy                                  145.00          188 30
Rubber                                  13.60           20.80
Coffee                                   0.32             1.26
Rattan                                  78.75          133.88
Clove                                    0.32            3.15
Coconut                                  1 20            1.50
Cassava                                  1.20            1.20
Total Gross Production Value        240.39          350 09
Production Costs (Rp 000)
Paddy                                   11.72           14.50
Cassava                                  1.47            1.47
Tree crops /d                            0                0
Homeyard /d                               0               0
Total Production Costs               13 19           15.97
Net Production Value
Family Income (Rp 000)
Land Tax (IPEDA)                      10.48           15.26
Net Crop Income                      227.20          334.11
Off-farm Income                       30.0            30.0
Total Family Income                 246.72          348.85
($374)          ($529)
/a  For transmigrants, mainly expected to be landless laborers from
Java/Bali, their present incomes are estimated to be about
Rp 180,000 ($273).
/b The present harvested area is the average productive area based
on the Consultants Survey   The future harvested area without
the project is the average planted area which includes tree
crops expected to mature.
/c The physical inputs and yields are given in the project working
files. Some productivity increase has been taken into account
in the future without the project e.g. the yield of paddy sawah
is expected to rise from 1 4 tons/ha to 1.6 tons/ha over 10 years.
/d Cash costs of production for tree crops are assumed to be zero,
although the imputed cost of labor has been taken into account
in estimating the economic costs.



-54 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
NUClEUIS ESTATES ANDi oIALLH0LDERS VII, PROJECT
FARM DUDOCETS: FOTURE WIT70 PROJECTd
EAST PALIhANTAN: PA5IP
1   2        2 ~ ~ ~ ~ 4        $        6        7         0                 0        0        1        12       :4        1$       22       2
4AVESCTED AREA (HA:
PADDY                       0.20    0,20    0.20    '2,210        -2,2 13 '20    0,20    0.2I 0        0.20     0.20     0,20      0.2 IC    .20     0.20    02   0   .22        0.20
CORN                        00' o        r      A       0. OS    0.0       0.0$5   4D.0$     0.05      205  5   0.5    0.05        3 05  0.0          .0a.0              0       0.05
CASSAVA              v~~~~~~.15  0,11'              '        1       .$      01        .$       01        .5      01       0,15      2.15    0.1  ,15    0. I5   015    0.~1$
PEANUT                      2                      '       T 0.2$ ,2  1-5 C5 C 02$  0.2$     0.2$1    0.2$      0.2-5    2.2       2.2$1    0.25     0.2$      0.2$-    0.2$     0.2$
TOTAL FOOD CROPS HARV    0Z           '~'                          . -  ,~ 02  25    0.2$     02$  0. 25'2,25   0.25     0.2$i    0.2$:    225~'    0.2$      0.2$      0.2$    '2.2$
CROFFPING INTENSITY 0.1200. 00  ORE 00  OQC.D3   0, 0    0..2   200.00  200.00  200.00  200.00  200,00  200.00  200.00  220.00  200.00  200.00  200.00  200.00
OIL PALN                     y.0      ,.O      1 tOt     '2.0    0,00      2.~00    2.00'    2,00      2.00    2,00    2,00    2-00    2. 00         2.0-0    2 .02     2.00    2.00
RUDDER           2                             TA     tOO      2,00     2.00      2.02     2.00     2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00     2.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,  0 ,  ,00AO  .0  1.c  1 0
YIELD! (TNS/HA)
PADDY                       080B      1 - ~0    1.'0    1 40   .'.603    1.60       160 1.60      1.60     1         ,60 1.0 0  1,60   1.60      1.60     1     .60 1,6  160     1,60
000N                         0.42~    0.50     0,-60    0.70    0.00    '2,00    0.80        0,0  0,80     0.80    0,80       0.0 0    0. 80    0.0 0     0.0 0    0.80,0        0.80
CASSAVA                         -    2,00      4.00     0.,00    0.00   10,00    10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10,00   1-0,00   10,00   10.00   10,00   10.00
''EANUT                      0.0~ 0    0 .60   0-70    0.70       0  C 0.0 0   0.0 0     0.80 '2.0   0    0.0   0,00'    0.00      0.00    0.020    0.00    0,00    0.90    0.80
EP   lb                        -        -    4. 00    0.00   14.00   17.00   10.00   19?,00    19.00    19.00    19.00   19.00   12,00   00.00   10,00   15.00   13.00
RUDDER                          -                 -         -               .4      0. 73    0.95      1.04     1.10     1.16      1.34     0.38     1.42      1,46     1.47     1,19
PRODUCTION (TONS/FARM)
P'ADDY                      0.16    0.2')      0. 24    0,20     2.32      0.32-    0.32     0.32      0.32     0.32     0.32     0,322,.22          0.32    '0.32    0.32  0. 32
COO'N                       0.02      0 .03    0.03    0. 04    2-.04      0.04    0. 04     0.04      0.04     0,04     0.04    0.04    0.04~  0.04          0.04      0.04     0, 04
5455000                         -    0.30      0.62     0,90      i1.20    1.550    1,50     1.50      1.50     1.50     1.50      1.50     1,50     1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50
PEANUT                       0.131    9.15     0.10     0.00      0.20     0,20    0.20      0.20      0.20    0.20      0.20      0.20     0,20 0.20         0.20    0.20    0.30
PFR   /b-                                      8.00   16.00)  20.00   04.00   36.00   38.00   38.00   38.00   30.00   30.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   30.00   2-6.00
RUB BE R                        -        -        -         -        -    0,95      1.46     1.90      3.08     2.20    2.32      2.68      2,76    2.84      2.92      2,94    21.38
PRODIUCTION VALUE (RF`OOC
PADDY                      23.20   29.00   42.48   49.56   56.64   56.64   56.64   56.64   56,04   56.64   56.64   56.64   56.00   56.00   56.00   56.00   56.00
COOIN                       2.20      2.75     3.63     4.24    4,84    4.04        4.84     5.00      5.00     5.,00    5.00     5.00    5,00       5.00    5.00       5.00     5.00
C45S4VA                         -    3.60      7.20    00.00   14.40   10S.00   10.00   00.00   18,00   88.00   18.00   00.00   10.00    19.00   10.00    18.00   13.00
PEANUT                     53.75   64.50  101.15  101.15  115.60  115,00  115.60   116.20  116.20  116.20  116.20  116.2-0  112.00  1112.80  112.00  112.80  112.80
SUBTOTAL                   79.15;   90.05  154.46  1615,75  190.48  105.08  195.00  195.84  195.84  195.04  195.04  195.84  101.00  001.80  101.00  100.80  191.80
FFED                                         420.00  040.00 1470.00 1785.00 1090.00 1990.00 1995,00 1995.00 1095.00 1995.00 1800000 1090.00 1890,00 1575.00 1365.00
RUDDER                          -        -        -         -        -  646.00 1003.03 1210.60 1456.00 1555,40 1640.24 1094.76 1051.32 2007.08 2064.44 3-078.52 1682,66
PRODUC0ION CCST (00000?
FADI'YyCOON.C'ASSAOA         9.55     9.76   12.06   11.10   11.34    11.41   11.41   12.36   13.36   12.36   12.36   12.36   12.46   12.46   12.46   12.46   12,46
PEANUT                     21.19   21.42    29.63   29.63    20.93   29.93   29.93   30.30   30,30   30.30   30.3                30.30   29,52   295          95        95     295
P00D CROPS CC?T            30.74   20.18   40.49   40.73   41.271-  41,34   41.34   42.66   42.66   42.,66   42,66   42.66   41.00    41.90    41,90    41,00    41.90
FFDB                                                  253.55; 253.55  2253S   .253.55  250.09  359.69  259.69  2-50.69  250.00  2610.04  260.04  260.04  260.04  2-60,04
000000           -        -        -        ~    ~ ~~~-  -  042.07   142.07  1-50.6'5  150.65  150.65  150.65  150.65  151.0         5.1 119           5.0 019
PAR0 INCOME WR'000
SMALLHOLDER - OIL PALM
NEI VALUE P9000 CROFPS     40.41   68.07  113.97  125.02.  150.21  153,74  153,74  15-3.10  153,18  153.18  153,18  153.18  149.82  149.02-  140.12  149.82-  140.82-
NET VALUE 040000.           00.30   39.10   43.!10   45.30    48.00    63.,40   01.00   09.30  105.80  180.20  100.20  080.20  000,210  180.20. 188Z.2  138.20  180.20
NET VALUE ADD. AREA'SC         --        -        -         -        -        -         -        - -106.40  108,00  180.00  088.08  180.00  000.00  100.00  100.00  180.00
NET VALUE PALM OK~              -        -  420,00  586,45 1216.45 1531,45 1636.45 0735.31 0735.31 1735,31 1735.131 1735.31 1629.16 1629.16 1629.16 0314.10 1104.16
ESTATE EMPLOYMENT         370,00  370.00  370.00            -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -
LAND TAO                    2.11    2.00    23.20    310,02   09.50    73.47   78.05   02.4            2.24   82.34   02.34   82,34   77256   77,56   77.56   63.03   '54.o7
NET INCOME                434.610  402,/0  920.29  72.513555.90 1674.11 1794,04 0905.45 1015.55 2103.35 2102,35 2102.35 27.12077.611 2077.61 17-76.34 0575.50
DiEDT R'EPAYMNET' -d                 -        -        -             -  535.00  509.00  452.00  411,00  373.00  339.00  300.00  200.00  255.00  232.00  044.00                      -
INCOME LESS DEBT          434.60  482.70  031.79  72,51355.900 013-9,00 1285.04 0453.45 1404.55 1809.35 1843,35 1874.35 1797.61 0822.61 0845.61 1632.34 15715.50
SMALLHOLDER - RUBBER.
NET VALUE POOD COOPS       48,41   60,67  113.97  125.02  150,21  153,74  053.74  153.10  153.18  153.10  153.10  053.10  149,02  140,02  149.02   149.02  149.82
NET VALUE GARDiEN          1P,3Q    39.10   43.10   45.30   48.9          62,4'0   01,90   09.30  115.80  188.20  188.20  188.20  130,20  188.20  180.20  188.20  188.2-0
NET YALUE ADD. AREA /c          -        -        -         -        -        -        -         - -106.40  188.00  108,00  188.00  188.00  188.00  188.80  188.00  188.00
NET VALUE RUBBER                -        -         -        -        -  503.93  060.95 1167.95 1305.35 1404.75 1489,59 1744.11 1799,41 1850.97 1912.53 1926.67 1530.75
ESTATE EMPLOYMENT         370.00  378.00  378.00  370.00  378.00              -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -
LNDI TAX                     2.11    2.199     4.07    5.45      6.55   28.07   44.24   57.60   63.50    67.93   71.62-   02.72-   04,99   07.45   89,02-   90.53   73,27
NET INCOME                4334,60  402.78  530.10  542.07  570.560 61,39 1052.35 1363.02 1404,33 0866.20 1947.34 2190.76 2240.44 2-294.53 2340.63 2362.15 1983,49
/d
DEBT REPAYMENT-                          -        -         -        -        -  300.00  395.00  436.00  466.00  492.00  560.00  5055.00  592.00  2.77,00  172.00                   -
INCOME  EOSS DIEBT        434.00  482.70  530.10  542.87  570.56  691.39  752,35  967.02  068.3 1400.2D 14,55.34 1622.76 0055.44 1702.53 21071.63 2190.15 1983.49
/a    Financial  prices  are  in  constant  1983  values.
/b   All  oil  palm  yields  are  expressed  in  fresh  fruit  bunches  (FF3).
/c    It  is  assumed  that  by  the  10th  year  of  the  project  the  smallholders  would
clear and develop the additional area of 0.5 ha allocated to them.
Id Not to exceed 30% of the production value of tree crops.



- 55 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
EAST KALIMANTAN COMPONENT
Rent and Cost Recovery Per Farm Family /a
(Constant 1983 values; RP '000)
Incremental                                                Rubber         Palm oil
1. Gross value of farm production                         9,565           11,792
2. Less cash production costs                             1,497            2,323
3. Equals net cash income                                 8,068            9,469
4. Less depreciation                                      1,414             1,078
5. Less imputed value family labor /b                      -516             -239
6. Less value of management /c                              478              590
7. Less allowance for risk/uncertainty /d                   956            1,179
8. Less general taxes /e                                    478              590
9. Equals project rent                                    5,258            6,271
10. Rent as % of net cash income                              65               66
11. Debt recovery /f                                       1,642            1,675
12. Benefit taxes /g                                         417              514
13. Total direct charges/taxes                             2,059            2,189
14. Rent recovery index (13 t 9)                              39                35
15. Public sector outlays                                  5,854            5,562
16. Cost recovery index (13 t 15) /h                          35               39
/a  All values are discounted over 30 years (for rubber) and 28 years (for palm
oil) at 10%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia; values
represent incremental benefits and costs.
/b  Wage rate Rp. 1,500/manday.  The incremental imputed value of labor is
negative because less labor is expended per smallholder family with the
project than without the project.
/c  At 5% of incremental gross value of production.
/d  At 10% of incremental gross value of production.
Th  At 5% of incremental gross value of production.
/f  Present value of debt is Rp 4,785 million for oil palm and Rp 5,296 million
for rubber. The debt recovery index (i.e. the present value of debt repay-
ments to the present value of debt) is 35% for palm oil smallholders and 31%
for rubber smallholders. Because the actual real return (interest rate less
domestic inflation) on debt is close to zero, discounting the debt repayment
stream (which has been deflated to bring it to constant prices) at 10%o
yields a low debt recovery. If debt repayment stream is not deflated, the
debt recovery index would be around 90%.
/g  At 4.36% of incremental gross value of production as IPEDA taxes.
/h  The level of cost recovery is largely dependent on debt recovery since the
present value of debt as a percentage of total public sector outlay is 90%
for rubber smallholders and 86% for palm oil smallholders.



- 56 -
A NNE X3
Table 
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESA7AES AND SKA.LLbLDERS VII PROJECT
PIP VI - 7Te.. Statements (Current Prices)
(Rp bilton.)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
A. Project N-cle.s Estute
Production ( 000 tote)
Robber                                                      -       -      0.24    1.37    3.47    6.23    9.61   13.09   15.49   17.29   18.68   19.80   20.67   21.63   22.01   22.75   22.94   23.13
Palm oil                         -        -       -        1.28    4.32   10.83   20.07   30.34   40.10   46.64   50.23   51.80  352.14   51.70   51.2    50.78          50.16   48.40   46.73   44.88   42.86
P.1. kernel                      -        -       -        0.20    0.71    1.84    3.45    5.36    7.27    8.54    9.20    9.40    9.48    9.40    9.32    9.23    9.12    8.80    8.50    8.16    7.79
Prior (Rpe/kg)
Robb_r                           --                                 -     1,300   1,382   1,485   1,590   1,706   1,808   1,909   2,020   2,151   2,282   2,413   2,555   2,706   2,878   3,050   3,232
Pcla nil                         -        -       -         458     482      312     543     577      611     645      683     727      771     816     864      915     973   1,031   1,093   1,157   1,226
Pul. kernel                      -                          282     297     315      334     356      376     398     421      448     475      503     532      564     600      635     673      713     755
Sales
RnShb                            -        -       -        -       -       0.31    2.89    5.13    8.91   18.00   23.68   29.56   34.93   40.:19   492.20   49.89   55.226   59.557   65.47   679.98   74.82
Pal, oil nod kernel              -        -       -        0.4    2.2      6.13      .5   19.53   27.25   33 50   38 18   41 89   44 75   46 92   49.25   57.68   54.2           5       65 5 79   5677    58.43
Total Sales                   _       -        -       0.64    2.29    6.44   13.94   24.68   37.16   49.90   61.84   71.45   79.68   87.11   94.45  101.51  109.55  115.07  122.26  127.76  133.25
Porch.eco of S  mOreH           -        -       -       -        -       0.22    0.81    2.49    4.99    8.17   12.26   15.31   18.12   20.90   23.65   26.47   29.74   32.22   35.76   38.31   41.07
Pocuoaof0  OO-                                              .53    1.67    3.86    6.77    6.87   12.76   14.97   10.53   17.92   19.13   19.98   20.91   21.98   22.99   23.3    23.76   24.16   24.52
Pcodoctinncoet - robbn           -       -                0'53 1--  -      0.02    0.55    1.15    1.83    2 .92    3.57    4.17      4.71    3.23    5.71    0.13    6 60    7.00    7.54    7.90    8.44
Pr-dorito  -oot<- oIl pule       -        -       -       0.09    0.39    1.21    2.30    3.61    4.44    5.          5.        89    6.26    6.55    0.86    7.18    7.53    7.74    7.96    8.15    8.29
utl-. ndsgenerl                  -                          .07    2.23    0.84    1.38    2.39    3. 57    4.82    5.97    6. 93    7.-76    8.52    9.20    9.96   10.75   11.31   12.03   12.60   13.1,7
Depre. ltlo                      -        -       -         0.76    1.04    1.56    1.76    1.88    2.04    2.12    2.25    2.33    2.33    2.33    2.33    2.33    2.33    2.33    2.33    23    23
To-ol C.et<                   -       _        -        1.45    3.33    7.51   13.55   21.37   29.63   38.03   46.09   52.55   58.31   63.52   68.72   73.95   79.94   83.93   89.38   93.53   97.82
Operating Intone                   -        -       -       <0.01>  <1.04)  <1.27>   0.39    3.31    7.33   11.67   15.75   18.90   21.37   23.59   25.73   27.62   29.61   31.14   52.88   34.23   35.43
Ontereut                            -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       10.51    9.82    9.40    8.94    0.42    7.90    6.41    4.66    3.58    2.53    2.10    2.10    -
Incone Reore T<cr<            -       -        -      <0.80>  <1.04>  <1.07>   0.39    3.31   <2.98>   2.05    6.35    9.96   12.95   15.69   19.32   22.96   26.03   20.81   30.78   32.13   35.43
B. Onlsrieg Oneroioou
Gent< oulee                      58.21  100.76  117.36  133.29  158.32  194.40  233.20  270.54  314.19  347.94  387.45  425.34  467.91  527.65  503.19  613.01  640.36  605.17  732.95  784.26  839 16
Genes prdoducioo cort<            48.83  35.83   65.24   77.43   94.67  120.92  146.21  174.73  204.64  233.49  264.36  294.68  323.63  356.75  385.94  412.87  439.33  468.41  497.76  535.81  577.32
Other operating conti             21.01   23.22   26.31   31.36   33.25   41.55   48.34   53.54   59.77   63.84   70.54   75.22   80.10   84.46   88.1    92.19   96.73  103.12  112.34  116.06  126.32
Ope-rting Inroar             15.37   21.71   25.81   24.50   30.60   31.93   37.65   40.27   49.78   48 61   52.55   55.46   64.16   86.44  109.15  107.95  104.30  113.64  122.85  132.39  135.52
Intereet nd other enb- enn         5.51    6.83    8.15    9.52   10.83   11.56   11.87   11.91   11.84   11.25   10.88   10.67   10.44    8.86    7.75    7.56    6.92    7.32    9.01   10.11   12.98
1-co-  Bef-ore TaOu-          9.86   14.88   17.66   14.98   19.77   20.37   25.78   30.56   37.94   37.36   41.67   44.79   53.72   77.58  101.40  100.39   97.38  106.32  113.84  122.28  122.54
C. To-l Operotion.
Income befoc- inoro                9.86   14.88   17.66   14.17   18.73   19.30   26.17   33.87   34.96   39.41   48.02   54.75   66.67   93.27  120.72  123.35  123.41  135.13  144.62  154.41  157.97
Corporate ton (45%)                4.44    6.70    7.95    6.37    8.42    8.68   11.77   15,24   15.73   17.73   21.60   24.63   30.03   41.97   54.32   55.50   55.53   60.80   65.08   69.48   71.08
Net incone                    5.42    9.10    9.71    7.80   10.31   10.62   14.40   L8.63   19.23   21.68   26.42   30.12   36.67   51.30   66.40   67.85   67.88   74.33   79.54   84.93   86.89



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
PTP VI - Cash Flow (Current Prices)
(Rp billion)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
A. Project Nucleus Estate
Net income before taxes and
depreciation                     -       -        -       -           -    0.49    2.15    5.19  (-0.94)   4.17    8.60   12.29   15.28   18.02   21.65   25.29   28.36   31.14   33.11   34.46   37.36
Loans /1                           7.09    9.70   10.53    9.59    5.58    9.20    3.32    -                  -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -
Total Inflow                  7.09    9.70   10.53    9.59    5.58    9.69    5.47    5.19  (-0.94)   4.17    8.60   12.29   15.28   18.02   21.65   25.29   28.36   31.14   33.11   34.46   37.36
Investment costs
Oil palm                         3.74    6.18    8.85    7.33    3.08    7.11    2.29    1.32    0.54    0.90    1.36    0.73    0.85    0.65    1.10    1.43    0.98    1.15    2.66    3.01    3.68
Rubber                           3.35    3.53    1.68    2.26    2.50    2.09    1.03    0.68    0.94    1.31    2.08    0.83    0.85    0.47    0.57    1.16    0.47    0.37    0.57    0.74    1.71
Total                         7.09    9.70   10.53    9.59    5.58    9.20    3.32    2.01    1.48    2.21    3.44    1.56    1.71    1.12    1.67    2.59    1.45    1.52    3.24    3.75    5.39
Principal repayment                -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       2.50    3.30    3.70    4.30    4.84    5.40    7.10    8.96   10.13   11.50   11.72    9.41    -
Cash surplus                       -       -        -       -       -        0.49    2.15    3.18   (1.96)  <1.34>   1.46    9.55    8.73   11.50   12.88   13.74   16.78   18.12   18.15   21.30   32.37
B. Existing Operations
Net income before taxes and                                                                                                                                                                                             i
depreciation                    18.26   23.28   26.56   24.78   32.37   34.97   41.88   47.96   56.54   56.17   61.17   64.39   72.62   96.48  120.10  118.29  115.58  125.02  132.64  141.38  141.54
Loans                             18.82   17.34   11.75   11.52   15.33   16.58   12.97    6.11   22.11   30.11   27.99   29.10   27.60   24.65   34.44   40.67   53.25   51.33   56.70   68.96   59.04
Total Inflow                 37.08   48.62   38.31   36.30   47.70   51.55   54.85   54.07   78.65   86.28   89.16   93.49  100.22  121.13  154.54  158.96  168.83  176.35  189.34  210.34  200.58
Investments                       24.55   21.95   18.83   23.41   35.27   27.73   24.52   38.11   39.67   44.56   48.27   53.41   61.27   67.63   74.88   89.71   95.92  101.10  105.79  121.66  119.56
Repayments                         1.04    1.61    1.74    1.95    1.24    1.99    3.29    4.44    5.46    6.45    7.72    7.69    7.51    6.68    6.76    7.86    8.68    9.75   10.98   12.88   14.95
Total Outflow                25.59   23.56   20.57   25.36   36.51   29.72   27.81   42.55   45.13   51.01   55.99   61.10   68.78   74.31   81.64   97.57  104.60  110.85  116.77  134.54  134.51
Cash surplus                      11.49   25.06   17.74   10.94   11.19   21.83   27.04   11.52   33.52   35.27   33.17   32.39   31.44   46.82   72.90   61.39   64.23   65.50   72.57   75.80   66.07
C. Total Operations
Total cash surplus                11.49   25.06   17.74   10.94   11.19   22.32   29.19   14.70   31.56   33.93   34.63   41.94   40.17   58.32   85.78   75.13   81.01   83.62   90.72   97.1(0   98.44
Less:
Taxes                            4.00    6.47    7.83    6.52    8.22    8.65   11.47   14.88   15.68   17.53   21.22   24.32   29.47   40.77   53.08   55.39   55.52   60.28   64.65   69.04   70.92
Dividends                        1.61    2.45    2.91    2.35    3.11    3.22    4.34    5.63    5.82    6.49    7.84    8.89   10.83   11.79   12.93   13.10   13.15   16.63   18.82   20.12   21.32
Incremental working capital      0.80    0.71    1.10    1.21    1.82    2.63    3.11    4.51    5.62    4.21    3.17    3.89    3.21    3.77    3.96    3.44    3.17    9.11    3.05    3.63    3.91
Net Cash Surplus              5.08   15.93    5.90    0.86    1.92    7.82   10.27  <10.32>   4.44    5.70    2.40    4.84    3.34    1.99   15.81    3.20    9.17    2.40    4.20    4.31    2.29
Beginning cash                     2.27    7.35   22.78   28.68   29.54   31.46   39.28   49.55   39.23   43.67   49.37   51.77   56.61   59.95   61.94   77.75   80.95   90 12   92 52   96 72  10.L n53
Ending cash                        7.35   22.78   28.68   29.54   31.46   39.28   49.55   39.23   43.67   49.37   51.77   56.61   59.95   61.94   77.75   80.95   90.12   92.52   96.72  101.03  103.32               a
/1  GOI/IBRD/CDC/Suppliers Credit.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
East Kalimantan Component - Economic Analysis
Cost and Benefit Streams
(Rp million, constant 1983 prices)
Smallholder - Rubber                                         Smallholder - Oil Palm
Project                                Net                     Project                                Net
benefits          Project costs    benefits Incremen-          benefits          Project costs    benefits Incremen-
Tree   Food    Capital Operating  without   tal net            Tree   Food    Capital Operating  without   tal net
Periods   crops  crops/a  costs    costs    project  benefits             crops  crops/a  costs    costs    project  benefits
1            -    118        661        48        63-       -654            -    472    2,439         191        42      -2,200
2            -    367    3,601         144        63      -3,441            -    995    5,252         386        42      -4,686
3            -    994    6,209         386       122      -5,724            -  1,565    5,738         587        81      -4,841
4            -  1,675    6,797         634       122      -5,877          441  1,773    6,689       1,179        81      -5,736
5            -  2,331      6,290       856       122      -4,937        1,323  1,770    4,497       1,676        81      -3,162
6          162  3,097    7,978       1,229       134      -6,083       2,866  1,525       1,978    2,077         90          245
7          577  3,102      3,513    1,389        134      -1,358        4,739  1,249      1,322    2,473         90       2,104       1
8        1,661  2,786    2,816       1,768       133        -269        6,503  1,149        663    2,688         88       4,212      v1
9        3,138  2,425    2,135    2,171          133       1,125        7,935  1,234        365    2,813         88       5,903      c
10        4,832  2,188      1,539    2,559        322       2,601        8,817  1,557        302    2,880        215       6,977
11        6,848  1,843      1,213    3,128        524       3,826        9,203  1,861        452    2,947        349       7,317
12        8,102  2,238        474    3,215        713       5,939        9,368  2,147        399    3,005        475       7,636
13        9,062  2,607        294    3,295        897       7,183        9,423  2,413        310    3,004        598       7,924
14        9,813  2,917        348    3,394        897       8,091        9,313  2,540        334    2,978        598       7,943
15       10,465  3,304        213    3,312        897       9,347        9,203  2,537        193    2,981        598       7,969
16       11,077  3,300        354,   3,316        897       9,811        9,093  2,534        357    2,983        598       7,688
17       11,755  3,297        466    3,319        897      10,369        8,982  2,533        361    2,985        598        7,571
18       12,023  3,293        359    3,323        897      10,737        8,597  2,533        425    2,985        598       7,122
19       12,546  3,293        425    3,323        897      11,193        8,266  2,533        422    2,985        598        6,794
20       12,685  3,293        219    3,323        897      11,538        7,935  2,533        221    2,985         598       6,664
21       12,833  3,293        364    3,323        897      11,542        7,605  2,533        351    2,985         598       6,204
22       12,648  3,293        508    3,323        897      11,212        7,219  2,533        378    2,985         598       5,791
23       12,235  3,293        279    3,323        897      11,028        6,999  2,533        315    2,985         598       5,633
24       11,767  3,293        301    3,323        897      10,538        6,778  2,533        328    2,985   *  598          5,401
25-30   11,287  3,293         201     3,323       897      10,159        6,668  2,533        187    2,985         598       5,431
/a  Includes benefits from estate employment, food crop area, garden and 0.5 ha of allocated but uncleared land which
would be developed by the smallholders.                                                                                             X x



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLROLDERS VII PROJECT
East Kalimantan Component - Economic Analysis
Cost and Benefit Streams
(Rp million, constant 1983 prices)
Nucleus Estate - Rubber                              Nucleus Estate - Oil Palm
Cost                                                  Cost
Estate    Payment                                     Estate    Payment
operating  to small-  Capital    Net                  operating  to small-  Capital    Net
Periods  Benefits   costs      holder    costs/a  benefits   Benefits   costs        holder    costs/a  benefits
1            -         -          -      3,217    -3,217           -         -          -      3,583    -3,583
2            -         -          -      3,103    -3,103           -         -           -     5,431    -5,431
3            -         -          -      1,420    -1,420           -         -          -      7,501    -7,501
4            -         -          -      1,688    -1,688         534       126         441     5,470    -5,503
5            -         -          -      1,717    -1,717       1,808       478       1,323     2,113    -2,106
6          231        38         162     1,355    -1,325       4,547    1,344       2,866      4,607    -4,269          1
7        1,338       543         577       632       -414      8,435    2,423       4,739      1,401       -128         k
8        3,433    1,130       1,661        395        248     12,861    3,590        6,503       765      2,003
9        6,233    1,834       3,138        509        752     16,940    4,233       7,936        293      4,479
10        9,706    2,816       4,832        670      1,387     19,722    4,612       8,818        463      5,829
11       13,217    3,472       6,848        990      1,907     21,239    4,785       9,203        648      6,602
12       15,640    3,977       8,102        395      3,166     21,884    4,831       9,369        346      7,338
13       17,466    4,353       9,062        368      3,682     22,032    4,861       9,424        367      7,380
14       18,867    4,638       9,813        192     4,223      21,846    4,830       9,314        265      7,438
15       20,000    4,856      10,465        217      4,461     21,660    4,798       9,203        422      7,236
16       20,875    4,996      11,077        422     4,380      21,455    4,763       9,093        517      7,082
17       21,842    5,150      11,755        159     4,778      21,195    4,719       8,983        336      7,157
18       22,226    5,211      12,023        118     4,873      20,451    4,592       8,597        372      6,890
19       22,972    5,330      12,546        174      4,923     19,745    4,471       8,267        806      6,200
20       23,171    5,362       12,685       211      4,914     18,964    4,338        7,936       861      5,829
21       23,384    5,395      12,833        463      4,692     18,109    4,192        7,605       994      5,317
22       23,048    5,329      12,648        184      4,887     17,067    4,014       7,219        852      4,982
23       22,407    5,217      12,235        182      4,773     16,416    3,909        6,999       838      4,670
24       21,689    5,093       11,767       207      4,621     15,765    3,798        6,779       728      4,461
25       20,922    4,956      11,287        293      4,386     15,579    3,766        6,668       728      4,417        > Z
26       20,249    4,849       10,816       293      4,291     15,301    3,718        6,558       728      4,296        X X
27       19,374    4,696       10,253       293      4,132     15,208    3,702        6,503       728      4,274   w
28-30    18,740    4,585       9,844        293      4,017     15,107    3,686        6,503       728      4,189
/a  Including maintenance costs.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
Related Documents in Project Files
1.  Team Khusus       -  Appraisal Report of East Kalimantan Component
2.  P.T. Agriconsult -  Preparation report of East Kalimantan Component
3.  P.T. Agriconsult -  Preliminary report of West Kalimantan Component
4.  P.T. Tanindo      -  Preparation report of South Sulawesi Component
5.  SBPN              -  Consulting Requirements
6. Staff Working Paper
No. 1 - Agricultural Inputs/Unit Cost: East Kalimantan Component
No. 2 - Farm Budgets and Economic Analysis: East Kalimantan Component
No. 3 - Project costs: East Kalimantan Component
No. 4 - Processing Facilities: East Kalimantan Component



IBRD 16637
1 RoW  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    EOl5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 19B2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES
AND
SMALLHOLDERS VIl PROJECT
EAST KALIMANTAN COMPONENT
PROJECT BOUNDARY
-NUCLEUS ESTATE  ARtEAS
SMALLHOLDER AREAS                                       LoSg GdIOO
RUBBER FACTORY
OIL PALM FACTORY
PROPOSED WHARF SITE
ALTERNATIVE WHARF SITE
ROADS
RIVERS
*   - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 FRF
KILOMETERIS
To Tan,an''nglvnI                                                   / a//             )                 
0000,,0  000000 00z 000 000 00 00  0 . m00  Oo0 ,0 00 10, 000  W.04es di . 0 0
tuits  1a/d   2t  3htglStSh g me6mvmoswo
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h, s,






IBRD  16638
40930    s                                                             11000,                                        AUGUST 1982
V    ,/                                                         INDONESIA
Pemat                                            NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS Vii PROJECT
West Kalimantan Component
NUCLEUS ESTATE AREA
FU/M SMALLHOLDER AREA
ROADS
-1000'                                                                                            --5.      RIVERS                                           100-
C?                 -  .. >PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
i. -  -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Singka a   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                               0                 20          30
KILOMETERS i
aN\ S  Ws,                                    f /                    X                           j 1-~~~~~~~~~MLES1 
Sungairay  0             ,10            20
0030'
the ~ sosmes ofja i the redr fAr                                                                          a
the repot teroPa iaT                                                                                            Sosok
domply, onhe- _pa o t
any teri/ury or anyendrsemeMator
Sungaoper  u                                                          11000'
5o .h       h   n a                                                                         S       ,U               Brunei
Se a         U                                     \a   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA   BRUNEI 
:   \;@        \                                        CA~~~~~~                 ~ ~~~~YSIA     
\ AJ ,~~~~~~~~ < f,> ~~~~~~East Kalimantan'
Th/smaphas beenprepareetbythe  /   -                    T                       I %S.  | West Kalimantan rr
World Bank'sstaff erclusivelyfor                                   I/  _ ianak /^(
the conv-nim,e of the leaders of 5A^MfMp-.J
the reportto hich it igattached                                                                             PNIAK  .-  Mapv
Th deno-inati-ns sed -d th.                                         N T            \,                                 eta   almna              Blkaa
,moundies shown on MI/s map                                                                                         Ceta Kaliman.t.a      s 
do not imply, on the part of the                                                                                                                     Papan t . 
World Bank end its affiliates, any         .  J 0I                                                 
judgnnenton the legalstat- of               0                                                                                            South s
any terwtory . any endorsement   1   Kair n
or -cCeptalce of such bound}rie..\4<                                                      la                                  m   
.                       ~~~~~~~1090!0 SO        n. 1                                                 






IBRD 16639
Celebes Sea                                             120030'                                    12045'                    AUGUST 1982
This rap has been prepard by the World Banks Stff e-ls,-rly for th. -w Vfie-so
J                              o.,.dw / f the rapdes f the report to which ,t is attached The denmation ud *nd the
boundaries shows  on this mp ds sot iply. -a the pert of the World Bahk and its
afflfiates, any jdgmst sn te legal stats of any terrtory Or -5Yon-rsmot or
Tsbal T/sin,r                   acceptasce of such bousharies.
/    J   SULeAWESI tf  mDO    G-:  -215'                                                                                                         215-
Sans e,
D,Od.i   9   X  Srrdarlols Sea               ( |                                                     Xo To tasinio
,ov rd .'v'I na       JiLl
y    m ci, ~~~~'o sjr,r/
- 120115'                       tU-/                                                   '-</
I'l /. /.    aria /.'atSGrJrrL   ornd                           I4.  ,        
2030'                             )r79t :?i. .),tri('                                                         f                    Tsmoni                  2'3053-
Bwebone ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Taogg 
ari~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lsbrooEgsWt .
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2045-
-2045'                                                                                                TF UK    9 4/  0  t     >ot9ts-/O f
<              =              Wa t   ,tuitan5u,                                                     INDONESIA
Manta inga  NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
<  0  H                                        ~~~~~~South Sulawesi Component
8    X   g)                                     L        7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREAS
'NUCLEUS ESTATE AREA
SMALLHOLDER ESTATE AREA
3'W  opo                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS                         0-
t%opo  _ [          =        POSSIBLE WHARF
JETTY
\><l RIVERS
0              10            20             30
KILOMETERS I                                             I
MILES Io                                               3o
120 1l                                    12030'125
O                              120 40
I~~~~~~~~~~~~103



