OFIV CIALS    LOAN MBER 2232 IND
DOCUIVE NTS
Loan Agreement
(Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VII Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2232 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         4    4               , 1983, between
the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinaf r called the Borrower) and
the  INTERNATIONAL   BANK  FOR   RECO STRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B)   the Borrower has agreed, or will shortly agree, with
Commonwealth Development Corporation (hereinafter called CDC) for
a loan (hereinafter called the CDC Loan) in an amount equivalent
to about $30,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project
on  the   terms  and  conditions   set  forth   in  an   agreement
(hereinafter called the CDC Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Basic Agrarian Lar:" means Law     No. 5/1960   of  the
Borrower (Undang-Undang Pokok Agraria), as the same may be
amended from time to time;


﻿-2-
(b) "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning
Agency of the Borrower;
(c)  "BI"  means   the   BANK  INDONESIA,   established   and
operating under Law No. 13/1968 of the Borrower;
(d)  "BRI" means the BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA, established by
and operating under Law No. 21/1968 of the Borrower;
(e)  "Credit Expenditures" means that part of expenditures
incurred for Parts A.1, A.2 or A.3 of the Project and which are
intended to be recovered from Settlers as provided in the
Smallholder Credit Agreements .referred to in Section 1.02 (p)
below, including inter alia expenditures for rubber, oil palm and
subsistence crop development (including initial land clearing of
food crop areas), related machinery and equipment, overhead costs
for the establishment of tree crop development, settler housing,
village roads and cash payments to new Settlers;
(f)  "DGE" means the Directorate General of Estates of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(g)  "Estate" means any nucleus estate and other estate
responsible for carrying out a part of the Project, including
PTP VI, PTP XII, PNP VII, PNP XXVIII and such other estates as
shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank;
(h)  "Governing Regulation' means any of the Laws, Decrees
or Regulations referred to in bections 1.02 (1), 1.02 (m) and
1.02 (r), as well as the Presideatial Decrees Nos. 44 and 45 of
1974;
(i)  "Hak Milik" means the right of ownership in respect of
land, as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;
(j)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(k)  "Non-Credit Expenditures" means that "art c:f expendi-
tures for Part A of the Project which are not intended to be
recovered from Settlers, including inter alia expenditures for
village infrastructure, main access roads, water supply and
sanitation, health and educational facilities, and management
fees payable to PTP VI, PTP XII and PNP VII;


﻿(1) "PNP VII" and "PNP XXVIII" mean, respectively, Perusa-
haan Negara Perkebunan VII and Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan
XXVIII, two state-owned estate enterprises of the Borrower estab-
lished pursuant to Government Regulation No. 14/1968 or any
respective successors thereto;
(m) "PTP VI" and "PTP XII" mean, respectively, Perseroan
Terbatas Perkebunan VI and Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan XII, two
public sector agricultural estate enterprises established pur-
suant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower and des.gnated as such
under  Government  Regulations  No. 28/1971   and  No. 25/1971,
respectively, or any respective successors thereto;
(n) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(o) "Settler" means a smallholder and his family settled or
previously settled in a settlement area and participating under
the Project, as the context may require;
(p) "Smallholder Credit Agreements" means the respective
agreements to be entered into between BRI and the Settlers pur-
suant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(q) "Smallholder Development Agreements" means the respec-
tive agreements to be entered into between DGE and Estates
pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and
(r) "Team Khusus" means Team Khusus Proyek Kerjasama Luar
Negeri, the team created under Decree No. 695/1979 of the
Borrower's Minister of Agriculture to assist DGE in externally
financed projects.
ARTICLE II
The Loar
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred   fifty-four  million   six  hundred   thousand   dollars
($154,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-4-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to two million two
hundred eighty-four thousand seven hundred twenty-nine dollars
($2,284,729). The fee shall be payable in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08


﻿-5-
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of  $8,520,500,000   referred  to  in   (iii)  (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520,500,000 (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering, environmental and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of estate development under Part B of
the Project the Borrower shall:
(i) make available to each Estate the portion of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to such estate
pursuant to the provisions set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement under financing arrangements, in


﻿-6-
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include inter alia the terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(ii) make available to such estates such additional
funds as shall be required by such estate to carry
out its estate development under the Project under
financing arrangements, which shall include inter
alia the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
financing arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) above in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as
the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive such financing arrangements or any part
thereof.
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i)
cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the organ-
ization, management and implementation arrangements set forth in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (ii) ensure that the funds for
Part A of the Project are provided    and recovered in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment and Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,
agricultural, engineering and financial consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank in
accordance with principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981, and in accordance with an implementation
schedule agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(a) For the purposes of financing the Credit Expenditures
under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project and of recovering the
costs of Credit Expenditures from Settlers, the Borrower shall


﻿-7-
cause BRI to enter into Smallholder Credit Agreements with the
Settlers about three years after their settlement and upon the
Settlers obtaining Hak Milik, whose respective terms and condi-
tions shall be satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include
inter alia: repayment of principal and interest by Settlers in
accordance with an amortization schedule covering a period of 17
years from the date of the Smallholder Credit Agreement, includ-
ing a grace period of two years for oil palm and three years for
rubber, with payment of interest by Settlers at an annual rate of
10.5% on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, said interest to be capitalized
and added to principal during the grace period.
(b) For the purposes of ensuring the prompt and efficient
management, supervision and coordination of activities under Part
A of the Project, the Borrower shall, through DGE, enter into a
Smallholder Development Agreement with each Estate under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and CDC, providing for
the obligations of such Estate in respect to its Part or Parts of
the Project, including inter alia the provisions set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(c) The Borrower shall cause the parties to the Smallholder
Credit Agreements and the Smallholder Development Agreements,
respectively, to perform punctually their respective obligations
under such Agreements.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
generality of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause DGE, with the assistance of Team Khusus, to prepare
and submit to BAPPENAS and the Ministr-y of Finance a proposed
annual work program and budget in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the 'imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place  of use   or  installation, and   for   such  insurance  any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.


﻿-8-
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion, work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and sc vices financed
out of the proceeds of the '.oan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the 3ank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish, or cause
to be furnished, to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be
prepared, an estate sector investment program (including programs
for each estate) relating to long-range plans (1984-1993), in-
cluding financial, managerial, technical and manpower aspects,
and shall furnish such plan, or cause such plan to be furnished,
by September 30, 1983, to the Bank for review and comment.
Section 3.09. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure: (i) that each
prospective Settler is promptly given access to about 1 ha of
land for house, garden and food crops; and (ii) subject to the
provision of paragraph (b) of this Section, that each Settler
receives within three years after settlement Hak Milik to 2 ha of
planted tree crops area and an additional area for a house lot,
garden and ' od crops to give a total of about 3 ha, subject,
however, to _,etention by BRI of the Hak Milik certificate as
security for Settler debt; and
(b) the Borrower, through the Project Manager as described
in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, shall periodically review the
performance of Settlers, and after consultation with the Provin-
cial Coordinating Committee, shall take appropriate action in the
case of any settler found to have been deficient in his work in
the area being developed or in the husbandry of his land. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall not,
except as otherwise mutually agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, issue any certificate evidencing Hak Milik in respect of
land to any Settler who has so been found deficient.
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause each Estate to purchase
from Settlers at a price determined in accordance with the prin-
ciples set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, all processable
oil palm or rubber, as the case may be, offered for sale and
shall cause each Settler to sell to such estate at a price deter-
mined as aforesaid at least the quantity of such oil palm or
rubber, as the case may be, required to amortize his debt obliga-
tions.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 10 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitu '-al or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to thp Bank,
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property,
or as secarity for payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subsidivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating
for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Estates, ministries or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts adequate to record


﻿- 11 -
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, in-
voices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the ex-
penditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure and shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
(c) The accounts of each Estate and agency of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
which are to be kept pursuant to the provisions of subsections
(a) and (b) of this Section 4.02, shall be audited each fiscal
year in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the Bank shall be
furnished with certified copies of such accounts for such year as
so audited and the report of such audit by such auditors of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Estate to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices their respec-
tive operations and financial conditions.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each such Estate to: (i) have
its accounts (including the accounts referred to in Section 4.02
(c) of this Agreement) and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the reports of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have


﻿- 12 -
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish  to  the Bank   such  other  information   concerning  the
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each Estate to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause each Estate at all
times to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance  with   sound  agricultural,   business,   engineering,
environmental and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management and supervisors, assisted
by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause each Estate:
(a) to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all such rights and interest in land and all such other
rights, powers, privileges and franchises as are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business; and
(b) at all times to operate and maintain its installations,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required to make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound agricultural, business and engineering practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the access and
village roads and other village infrastructure facilities
included in the Project to be maintained in accordance with sound
engineering practices and shall make available, or cause to be
made available, promptly as needed, sufficient funds and
facilities for the purpose.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
each Estate shall at all times maintain a ratio of long-term debt
to equity of not more than 60:40.


﻿- 13 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  the term "debt" means all debts incurred by the
respective estate, including debts assumed or
guaranteed by the respective estate except that
"debt" shall, for this section only, not include
debts incurred by an estate for buildings, and
vehicles as a result of smallholder development
expenditures;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
loan agreement or contract, on the date and to the
extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
agreement or contract; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee is entered into but only to the ex-
tent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii)  the term "equity" means the respective estate's
share capital, retained earnings, surplus and
reserves (including any revaluation reserve but
excluding any reserve allocated to cover specific
liabilities); and Bank and CDC funds disbursed
under the Project according to Schedule 5, para-
graph 1 (a) (i) and (ii) which will be converted
into share capital; and
(iv)  the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing
by its terms more than twelve months after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of an Estate, or for the suspension of all or part of the
operations of any such Estate;
(b) an Estate shall have been unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken


﻿- 14 -
whereby any of its properties shall or may be distributed among
its creditors;
(c) a Governing Regulation or any provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so as
to affect adversely: (i) the carrying out of the Project; (ii)
the performance by the Borrower of any other of its obligations
under this Agreement; or (iii) the performance by any party to
any of the arrangements referred to in Sections 3.01 (b), 3.03
(a) or 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, of its respective obligations
under such arrangements; and
(d) any of the arrangements referred to in Sections 3.01
(b), 3.03 (a) or 3.03 (b) of this Agreement shall have been
terminated or abrogated without the concurrence of the Bank, or
any party to any such agreement shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations thereunder so as to affect adversely the
objectives of the Project or any part thereof.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)  the CDC Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 15 -
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(e) (i) (B), subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that
paragraph, of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDC Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date                     , 1983, is hereby
specified for the purposes of      ection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE               DJMLN    JKT 45799
Jakarta                        DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU  JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Part A.1 of                                 34% of amounts
the Project            37,300,000          disbursed by
the Borrower
to an Estate
(2) Part B.1 of                                 34% of amounts
the Project            21,100,000          disbursed by
the Borrower
and BI to an
Estate
(3) Part A.2 of                                 34% of amounts
the Project            18,300,000          disbursed by the
Borrower to an
Estate
(4) Part B.2 of                                 34% of amounts
the Project             7,700,000          disbursed by the
Borrower and BI
to an Estate
(5) Part A.3 of                                 46% of amounts
the Project            11,000,000          disbursed by the
Borrower to an
Estate
(6) Part B.3 of                                 46% of amounts
the Project            23,000,000          disbursed by the
Borrower and BI
to an Estate


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Consultants'                               100%
services and
training under
Part C.1 of the
Project:
(a) for PTP VI           1,500,000
(b) for PTP XII          1,000,000
(c) for PNP XXVIII       1,000,000
(8) Consultants'              3,000,000       100%
services and
training under
Part C.2.of
the Project
(9) Expenditures for         18,800,000        100% of the amounts
Part ,C.3 of the                          disbursed by DGE
Project                                  to an Estate
(10) Fee                      2,284,729       Amount due
(11) Unallocated              8,615,271
TOTAL             154,600,000
2.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the
aggregate amount of disbursements to be withdrawn in any parti-
cular quarter by the Borrower to finance expenditures to be
incurred by an Estate out of Categories 1 through 6 and Category
9 of paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be determined by the Bank
taking into account the cumulative amount of Project expenditures
actually incurred by said Estate up to the end of the preceding
quarter. For this purpose, the Borrower shall record said Project
expenditures in statements of expenditures in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and forward to the Bank said statements
of expenditures when submitting withdrawal applications in
respect of Categories 1 through 6 and Category 9 of paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures in respect of Category (1) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall
have received evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, of the execution and delivery of the Smallholder Develop-
ment Agreement entered into by DGE pursuant to Section 3.03 (b)
of this Agreement and the relevant Estate;
(c) expenditures in respect of Category (2) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall
have received evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, of the execution and delivery of the agreement entered into
by the Borrower parsuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
and the relevant Estate;
(d) expenditures in respect of Category (3) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall
have received (i) an appraisal report for Part A.2 and B.2 of the
Project satisfactory to the Bank and (ii) evidence in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, of the execution and delivery
of the Smallholder Development Agreement entered into by DGE pur-
suant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement and the relevant
Estate;
(e) expenditures in respect of Category (4) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall
have received (i) the appraisal report referred to in (d) (i)


﻿- 20 -
above, and (ii) evidence, in form and substance satisfctory to
the Bank, of the execution and delivery of the Agreement entered
into by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment and the relevant Estate;
(f) expenditures in respect of Category (5) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall
have received (i) an appraisal report for Part A.3 and B.3 of the
Project satisfactory to the Bank and (ii) evidence, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, of the execution and delivery
of the Smallholder -Development Agreement entered into by DGE
pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement and the relevant
Estate; and
(g) expenditures in respect of Category (6) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall
have received (i) the appraisal report referred to in (f) (i)
above, and (ii) evidence in form and substance satisfctory to the
Bank, of the execution and delivery of the Agreement entered into
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
and the relevant Estate.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which w ould otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's on-going program
(hereinafter called the Program) to assist smallholder and estate
development in its territories through: (i) establishing small-
holders' settlements by means of the allocation and development
of land and the delivery of a package of services and inputs to
smallholders; and (ii) developing estate agriculture. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Smallholder Development
1.   Smallholder development in   the District of Pasir, East
Kalimantan province, with PTP VI as the nucleus estate, through:
(a) land clearing and establishment of about 11,700 ha of
rubber for about 5,850 smallholders and about 9,000 ha
of oil palm for about 4,500 smallholders, and land
clearing of aboui 5,175 ha for Settler house, garden
and food crops;
(b) construction of about 34 new villages, including con-
struction of houses with water supply and sanitation
facilities for the settlement of about 10,350 Settlers,
and construction of about 315 km of access, village and
collection roads, about 880 km of farm tracks, and
about 415 m of bridges.
2.   Smallholder development in the District of Sambas, West
Kalimantan province, with PTP XII as the nucleus estate, through:
(a) land clearing and establishment of about 12,000 ha of
rubber for about 6,000 smallholders, and land clearing
of about 3,000 ha for Settler house, garden and
foodcrops; and
(b) construction of about 22 new villages including con-
struction of houses with water supply and sanitation
facilities for the settlement of about 6,000 Settlers,
and construction of about 115 km of access, village and
collection roads, about 340 km of farm tracks, and
about 60 m of bridges.


﻿- 22 -
3.   Smallholder development in    the District of Luwu, South
Sulawesi province, with    PNP  XXVIII  as   the  nucleus  estate,
(assisted by PNP VII as implementing estate), through:
(a) land clearing and       ;blishment of about 5,000 ha of
oil palm for about 2,_j0O smallholders, and land clear-
ing of about 750 ha for Settler house, garden and food
crops; and
(b) construction of about 12 new villages, including con-
struction of houses with water supply and sanitation
facilities for the settlement of about 2,500 Settlers,
and construction of about 90 km of access, village
and collection roads, about 270 km of farm and estate
tracks, and about 400 m of bridges.
4.   The construction and staffing of, and provision of equipment
for, various community facilities, including health centers,
schools, market buildings and places of worship in each settle-
ment area referred to under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the
Project.
5.   Smallholder development for Parts A.2 and A.3 is still being
appraised by the Borrower, and the figures, although reasonable
current estimates, are subject to change upon completion of the
final appraisal report.
Part B:   Nucleus Estate Development:
1.   Estate development by PTP VI in the District of Pasir, East
Kalimantan Province, as follows:
(a) land clearing and establishment of about 2,500 ha of
rubber and about 3,000 ha of oil palm;
(b) construction of (i) estate housing and buildings, and
(ii) about 50 km of access and collection roads, about
220 km of estate tracks, and about 40 m of bridges; and
(c) construction of a rubber factory (800 ton/month) and
construction of a palm oil factory (35 ton/hr FFB);
(d) construction of a bulking facility and wharf, including
provision of barges; and


﻿- 23 -
(e) provision    of  road   construction   and   agricultural
machinery.
2.   Estate development by PTP XII in the District of Sambas,
West Kalimantan Province, as follows:
(a) land clearing and establishment of about 3,000 ha of
rubber;
(b) construction of estate housing and buildings; and about
40 km of access and collection roads, 110 km of estate
tracks, and 50 m of bridges;
(c) construction of a rubber factory (1,000 ton/month); and
(d) provision    of  road   construction   and   agricultural
machinery.
3.   Estate development of PNP XXVIII through PNP VII in the
District of Luwu, South Sulawesi province, as follows:
(a) land clearing and establishment of about 4,000 ha of
oil palm;
(b) construction of estate housing and buildings, and about
70 km of access and collection roads, about 210 km of
estate tracks, and about 350 m of bridges;
(c) construction of a palm oil factory (30 ton/hr FFB);
(d) construction of a bulking facility and wharf, including
provision of barges; and
(e) provision    of  road   construction   and   agricultural
machinery.
4.   Estate development for Parts B.2 and B.3 is still being
appraised by the Borrower, and the figures, although reasonable
current estimates, are subject to change upon completion of the
final appraisal report.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Program Support
1.   Strengthening of the organizational and technical capabili-
ties of Estates for the purposes of carrying out their respective
parts of the Project described under Parts A and B above, through
the provision of consultants' services and staff training.


﻿- 24 -
2.   A program of technical assistance to: (i) strengthen the
technical capabilities of DGE and other agencies associated with
estate crop development; and (ii) assist DGE in coordinating
activities under the Project, preparing future estate crop devel-
opment projects, and improving the marketing of smallholder
production.
3.   Assistance to Estates as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank for various start-up activities (including
inter alia construction of housing and buildings, road construc-
tion and nurseries and field development, acquisition of essen-
tial machinery and equipment, and the provision of technical
assistance) to initiate future nucleus estate and smallholder
projects as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1988
through   October 1, 2002                  5,155,000
On April 1, 2003                                5,105,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 26 -
Preminms on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the 'asis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 28 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in conection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 29 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment, spare parts and supplies estimated
to cost less than $50,000 each, may be awarded on the basis of
prudent shopping after solicitation and comparison of at least 3
price quotations from reputable suppliers.
2.   Contracts for machinery and equipment required for initial
road construction which do not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $1,600,000, may be awarded on the basis of prudent
shopping after solicitation and comparison of at least 3 price
quotations from reputable suppliers.
3.   Contracts for pesticides, herbicides and rock phosphate may
be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping after solicitation
and comparison of at least 3 price quotations from reputable sup-
pliers, provided, however, that such contracts shall not exceed
the equivalent of $600,000 per annum.
4.   Urea and other fertilizers may be procured from the desig-
nated distributors of P.T. Pupuk Sriwijaya.
5.   Civil works, other than those referred to in paragraph 7
below, shall be awarded under contract and shall be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures in effect
as of the date of this Agreement; provided, however, that said
contracts for civil works shall be grouped, to the maximum extent
possible, to form bidding packages estimated to cost more than Rp
200,000,000 each and awarded on the basis of the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures in effect as of the date of this
Agreement.
6.   Contracts for the factories shall be grouped to form appro-
priate bidding packages so as to be procured under a limited
number of contracts agreed to between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 30 -
7.   Road  construction, estate building, Settler housing and
village infrastructure may be done by the relevant Estate.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to any contract for civil works or goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution. .
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the Borrower shall make available to the Bank,
promptly after its execution, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the


﻿- 31 -
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Financing Arrangements
1.   (a) PTP VI: (i) the equivalent in Rupiah of the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made
for estate development under Parts B.1 and C.1 of the
Project, estimated at about $22,600,000 equivalent;
(ii) the CDC Loan withdrawn for a portion of Part B.1
of the Project estimated at about $7,500,000 equiva-
lent; and (iii) other funds as shall be required by PTP
VI to carry out estate development as set out in Part
B.1 of the Project estimated at $29,800,000 equiva-
lent. The funds indicated in subparagraphs (i) and (ii)
above shall be lent for a period of 20 years from the
date of the Loan Agreement including a grace period of
8 years and repayments to be made in 24 approximately
equal semiannual installments. The funds indicated in
subparagraph (iii) above shall be lent for a period of
16 years from the date of the Loan Agreement, including
a grace period of 8 years and repayments to be made in
16   approximately   equal   semiannual   installments.
Interest on all above funds shall be charged at the
rate of 13.5% per annum on amounts withdrawn and
outstanding.
(b) PTP XII: (i) the equivalent in Rupiah of -ne amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account fuL expenditures made
for estate development under Parts B.2 and C.1 of the
Project, estimated at about $8,700,000 equivalent;
(ii) the CDC Loan withdrawn for a portion of Part B.2
of the Project estimated at about $2,800,000 equiva-
lent; (iii) other funds as shall be required by the
Estate to carry out estate development as set out in
Part B.2 of the Project; (iv) the amount of funds
required pursuant to the foregoing subparagraph (iii),
as well as the terms and conditions of all the financ-
ing arrangements under this paragraph 1 (b) will be set
out in the final appraisal reports to be submitted by
the Borrower to the Bank.
(c) PNP XXVIII: (i) the equivalent in Rupiah of the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made
for estate development under Parts B.3 and C.1 of the
Project, estimated at about $24,000,000 equivalent;


﻿- 33 -
(ii) other funds as shall be required by the Estate to
carry out estate development as set out in Part B.3 of
the Project; (iii) the amount of funds required pur-
suant to the foregoing subparagrap' (ii), as well as
the terms and conditions of all fin, _ing arrangements
under this paragraph 1 (c) will be st iut in the final
appraisal reports to be submitted by the Borrower to
the Bank.
2.   Other: The financing arrangements shall contain performance
covenants applicable to the respective Estates and satisfactory
to the Bank.


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 6
Provisions to be 1 cluded in the
Smallholder Development Agreements
The Smallholder Development Agreements to be entered into
between DGE and each Estate shall require each such Estate to
undertake inter alia to:
(1) clear about 0.5 ha of land for house, garden and food
crops and 2.5 ha for tree crops for each Settler; site
and construct settler housing; carry out siting and
provision of water supply and sanitation facilities;
plant and maintain tree crops until receipt of Hak
Milik by the Settlers; site,and construct village roads
and farm access tracks; plan locations for villages and
construct village offices and other project buildings
all in accordance with specifications agreed by DGE;
(2) provide an initial cash payment in an adequate amount
for subsistence to each new Settler;
(3) provide food crop inputs to Settlers in accordance with
criteria. agreed with DGE, including the provision to
each Settler of an initial package of seeds, fertili-
zers, pesticides and other agrochemicals for their
respective food crop areas either through supplies in
kind or through the provision of an adequate amount of
cash for the purchase of such seeds and agrochemicals;
(4) construct and maintain access, village and collection
roads, estate and farm tracks in tree crop areas to
appropriate standards;
(5) provide training in tree crop husbandry, harvesting and
collection;
(6) provide collection, processing and marketing services;
(7) employ at least one member of each Settler's family
during the immature years after planting, and addi-
tional casual labor where required, in accordance with
normal estate practices and procedures;
(8) employ adequate staff;


﻿- 35 -
(9) facilitate inspection of all works under its respective
part or parts of the Project by DGE, the Bank and CDC;
(10)  (a) ensure that Settlers are provided with regular
payments in return for the sale of the tree crop
production, such measures to include inter alia
weekly payments by the nucleus estate during the
first three harvesting years; and
(b) retain a portion of the revenues from tree crop
production in payment of Settlers debt obligations
specified in the relevant Smallholder Credit
Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 7
Organization and Management
1.   Smallholder Development
(a) Director General of Estates
Overall direction and coordination of the implementation of
Part A of the Project will be the responsibility of the Director
General of Estates. DGE will be assisted by, among others, the
Team Khusus.
The DGE will be responsible inter alia for:
(i) the approval of project and village master plan-
ning and work programs as prepared by each Estate;
(ii) overall guidance to the Project Managers (appoint-
ed purstlant to paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule)
and   the   Provincial   Coordinating   Committees
(established pursuant to paragraph 1 (d) of this
Schedule) for project implementation;
(iii) obtaining   the  Borrower's  approval  of   project
budgets   and ' coordinating   project   financing
arrangements;
(iv) advising on project procurement;
(v) preparation   and  execution  of   the  Smallholder
Development Agreements referred to in Schedule 6
to this Agreement; and
(vi) preparation of appraisal reports for Parts A.2,
A.3, B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
(b) The Project Managers
The first Director or General Manager of each Estate shall
be designated as Project Manager for Part A of the Project. The
Project Manager, appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, will
be responsible to the Director General of Estates. For this
purpose, the Project Manager and a nucleus estate site manager,
appointed by the Project Manager, will be responsible for inter
alia:


﻿- 37 -
(i) preparation of village master plans including
siting of villages, houses and water supply;
(ii) preparation of annual budgets and work programs
for all functions under Part A of the Project;
(iii) coordination of the implementation of that part of
the Project carried out by Provincial Government
agencies,  in   particular,  schools  and   health
services;
(iv) administration and supervision of recruited pros-
pective Settlers and allocation of house, food
crop and tree crop areas;
(v) acceptance   of  prospective  Settlers  as   estate
laborers and later, appraisal of performance of
these laborers to be proposed as Settlers; and
(vi) monitoring and reporting on project progress to
the DGE, the Provincial Government, and the Bank;
and
(vii) the   tasks   outlined  in  Schedule   6  to  this
Agreement.
(c) Provincial Coordinating Committees (PCC)
Provincial Coordinating Committees shall coordinate the
implementation of functions unde.- Part A of the Project, includ-
ing those which are within the jurisdiction and responsibility of
the Provincial Government, in particular construction of facili-
ties for schools and health, arrranging for land title, construc-
tion of some village infrastructure, and setting up of committees
to establish prices for smallholder tree crops. For these pur-
poses, the PCC shall inter alia:
(i) secure financing    for provincial and Kabupaten
high-priority community projects required for the
Settlers  within   the  settlement  area  of   the
Project;
(ii) arrange for recruitment of prospective Settlers
for the project to be accepted by the Project
Manager as suitable estate laborers;


﻿- 38 -
(iii)  coordinate and supervise Settlers in non-technical
aspects of the project including village adminis-
tration, cooperative development, and other social
activities;
(iv) expedite   the  granting   of  land  title  to   the
Settlers;
(v) ensure adequate food crop extension services to
Settlers; and
(vi)   set up a committee of Settler and Estate repre-
sentatives charged with the duty of establishing
prices for smallholder tree crops; in establish-
ing such prices, said committee shall take into
account inter alia:
(A) all legitimate and reasonable expenses of the
Estates in collecting, transporting, process-
ing and marketing of Settler production;
(B)  the   importance   of   encouraging   Settler
production;
(C) the importance of encouraging good quality
produce by Settlers;
(D) the need for the Estate to earn a return on
the   capital  employed  in   the  processing
facilities;
(E) Settler cooperative    charges, if   any, and
Government taxes; and
(F)  the desirability of both Estates and Settlers
sharing equitably in the value added to
Settler production through processing.
(d) BRI
On behalf of the Borrower, BRI shall: (i) enter into
Smallholder Credit Agreements with Settlers three years after
their settlement; (ii) maintain smallholder accounts; and (iii)
receive repayments from the Estates.


﻿- 39 -
2.   Estate Development
The Executive Managers (Direksi) of the Estates shall be
responsible for implementation of Parts B and C.1 of the Project,
subject to the overall responsibility for management and
coordination by the Director General of Estates and the Minister
of Agriculture.
3.   Program Support
The Director General of Estates and each Estate shall be
responsible for the implementation of their respective activities
under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project.
4.   Participating Ministries/Agencies/Estates
Ministry/Agency/Estate
participating in
Project Component                      Implementation
Part A                       - DGE
- Estates
- PCC (West Kalimantan, East
Kalimantan and South
Sulawesi)
Part B                       - Ministry of Agriculture
- DGE
- PTP VI, PTP XII, PNP VII
and PNP XXVIII
Part C.1                     - Estates
Part C.2                     - Ministry of Agriculture
- DGE
Part C.3                     - DGE
- Estates


﻿- 40 -
SCHEDULE 8
Provisions Governing the
Suallholder Financing Arrangements
1.    The Borrower shall make available to the Project Managers
the amounts required for Part A of the Project including both the
amounts to be provided by the Borrower and those to be provided
from the proceeds of the Loan and the CDC Loan. The items to be
financed under these arrangements include inter alia the follow-
ing:
(a) land clearing and preparation;
(b) fertilizers and chemicals (including pesticides);
(c) labor costs for tree crop development, road construc-
tion and other project infrastructure;
(d) machinery and equipment;
(e) settler housing;
(f) a subsistence package including first year seed and
fertilizer and cash payments to Settlers;
(g) access, village and collection roads, farm tracks .nd
bridges;
(h) estate overhead costs and management fees as approved
by DGE totalling 15% of the direct costs of tree crop estab-
lishment (excluding related machinery and equipment);
(i) provision of village infrastructure excluding health
and education facilities; and
(j) provision of water supply.
2.   The amounts referred to above shall be determined on the
basis of annual budgets to be submitted not later than the end of
October and to be approved by BAPPENAS and the Ministry of
Finance not later than the last week of January of the following
year. Specifically, the budgetary procedure under this arrange-
ment shall be as follows:


﻿-41-
(a) the Project Managers shall prepare and propose, through
DGE, the annual budget for each fiscal year to be approved by
BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance;
(b) the budgets, duly approved by BAPPENAS and the Ministry
of Finance, will be issued to the Project Managers, with copies
furnished to and retained by BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Agriculture and DGE;
(c) based on the approved budgets, the Ministry of Finance
shall disburse the funds required into an account designated by
the Project Managers;
(d) the disbursements of the funds for the 1st and 2nd
quarters of each fiscal year by the Ministry of Finance to the
relevant Project Manager shall be without prerequisites; dis-
bursements for the 3rd and 4th quarters shall be made in a
similar manner, at which times the Ministry of Finance shall have
received a satisfactory report of expenditures for the 1st and
2nd quarters, respectively;
(e) should a Project Manager consider that for any par-
ticular quarter, project implementation can be carried out more
rapidly than planned, the Ministry of Finance shall, upon receipt
of the Project Manager's request -to that effect, disburse the
requested amounts of funds even exceeding the scheduled quarterly
requirements; and
(f) annual expenditures shall be audited on the basis of
the Borrower's post-audit procedures.
4.   The Project Managers shall be required to establish and
maintain appropriate accounts to record all expenditures from the
proceeds of the Smallholder Financing Arrangements described in
this Schedule.
5.   (a) The   Smallholder   Credit  Agreements  referred   to  in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement shall provide inter alia that
Settlers shall be required to deliver periodically to the appro-
priate Estate their fresh fruit bunches of oil palm, or rubber
production, as the case may be, including those quantities
required for repayments of their debt obligations.


﻿- 42 -
(b) BRI shall establish and maintain separate records for
each Settler to which shall be charged each Settler's share of
Credit Expenditures in accordance with criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
6.   The Estates shall transfer to BRI the proceeds of repayments
paid by the Settlers under the Smallholder Credit Agreements
promptly upon collection pursuant to paragraph 10 (b) of Sched-
ule 6 to this Agreement.
7.   The funds to be made available by the Ministry of Finance to
the Project Managers, as set forth in paragraph 2 above, shall be
risk free to BRI and the Estates, that is, such funds shall be
repayable: (i) through the Estates to BRI, only from the proceeds
of tree crops received from Settlers, in accordance with the pro-
visions set forth in paragraphs 5 and 6 above; and (ii) by BRI to
the Ministry of Finance, only from repayments received by BRI
from the Estates.
8.   BRI shall be paid a handling fee at a rate to be agreed
between the Borrower and BRI on the aggregate amounts outstanding
under the Smallholder Credit Agreements with BRI. Said handling
fee shall not be included as part of expenditures to be recovered
from Settlers, and shall be payable semiannually by the Borrower
directly to BRI.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of th.e Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   /gtt dayof .        , 198 3
FOR SECRETARY


