Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4197 
 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Grant 3 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (35%); General industry and 
trade sector (25%); Infrastructure (30%); General finance sector 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P111222 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 21, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 15, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May14, 2009 
A.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
1.  The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) has made significant progress in implementing its 
medium-term program of institutional and policy reforms anchored in its Ninth Five-Year Plan 
(Ninth P
lan / PRSP).  The World Bank has supported the RGoB’s development efforts through 
two budgetary operations.  The First Development Policy Grant (DPG1) provided US$15 million 
in budget support in FY06 to help the RGoB meet selected development goals, as well as 
contributing to a deepening of the policy dialogue.  Based on continued good progress on the 
medium-term reform program, a Second Development Policy Grant (DPG2) for US$12 million 
was approved in May 2007, and was linked to strengthening the reform program and quickening 
the pace of implementation.  Both operations have closed, and have satisfactorily achieved their 
development objectives. 
2.  The RGoB has requested continued Bank engagement through programmatic, policy-based 
lending.  With the Kingdom’s momentous move to democracy, the RGoB has emphasized that 
strong donor support is especially important through this period of transition and deepening 
democratization, both in terms of supporting the credibility of the new democratic government 
and in ensuring that it has the resources it will require to deliver public services and sustain 
development progress.  Through the reform program supported by the proposed budgetary 
operations, the RGoB aims to promote continuity and provide a good foundation for the newly 
elected government.     
3.  The draft Tenth Five-Year Plan (2008/09 - 2013/14) identifies key development issues and 
describes the RGoB’s reform program over the coming five years.  The plan targets annual 
growth rates in excess of 8 percent, and emphasizes the need to: vitalize industry (fostering 
activity in manufacturing, hydropower, tourism, and information and communication technology 
(ICT)); strengthen national spatial planning (balancing regional development and managing the 
rapid pace of urbanization); synergize integrated rural-urban development (encouraging the  
commercialization of agriculture through enhanced rural accessibility); expand strategic 
infrastructure (prioritizing investments in rural infrastructure to maximize linkages with markets 
and growth centers); invest in human capital (enhancing access to vocational education and 
training, as well as improving the quality of tertiary education); and ensure good governance 
(strengthening accountability institutions).  
 
B. Proposed objective(s) 
Page  2
4.  The overarching objectives of the proposed DPG3 are to: (a) enhance the delivery of public 
services and infrastructure by ensuring good governance based on sound public financial 
management and procurement practices and strengthened accountability institutions; (b) foster 
better income earning opportunities by improving the functioning of the labor market, facilitating 
skills match and promoting the small and medium enterprise sector; and (c) boost access to 
strategic infrastructure, especially roads, electricity and Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT), by strengthening project management, enhancing prioritization, and increasing 
quality control.  The operations will seek to consolidate the reforms supported during DPG1&2, 
while highlighting new areas identified in consultation with the newly elected government.   
 
C. Preliminary description 
 
5.  Both the RGoB and the Bank have found policy based financing to be an effective mode of 
supporting development in Bhutan, and this concept note proposes the continuation of 
programmatic budget support to the RGoB’s reform program over the next two to three years, 
through the preparation of successive operations, starting with the proposed Third Development 
Policy Grant (DPG3).  The conclusion of the first two operations and the coming into office of a 
newly-elected government also made this a good time to review past experience, reflect upon 
lessons learnt, and revise the broad areas the new government wishes to highlight in the next 
series of budget support operations.   
6. 
Following wide-ranging discussions with RGoB counterparts, development partners, and within 
the Bank’s Bhutan country team, the following broad areas are proposed for DPG3: (a) 
strengthening governance, (b) fostering employment generation, and (c) expanding access to 
infrastructure (mainly roads, electricity, and ICT).  While there is continuity in some of the sub-
elements across DPG1&2 and the proposed follow-on operation, this revised structure usefully 
offers a shifted emphasis towards high priority areas indicated by policy makers.
1
Strengthening governance 
 
7. 
Through this period of extraordinary change in governance arrangements, there has been a felt 
need to ensure that governance remains sound and continues to be strengthened.  Public 
expenditure management, financial management and procurement systems, decentralization, and 
anti-corruption have figured prominently in policy discussions.  
¾
Bolstering public expenditure management by developing the BPFFS further, rolling out the MYRB 
process across the government, enhancing parliamentary oversight, and ensuring stronger financial 
management and procurement practices. 
 
¾
Following through with planned decentralization by establishing mechanisms for block grants, and 
ensuring adequate capacity at the local level for effective resource use. 
 
¾
Strengthening accountability mechanisms as a part of wider anti-corruption efforts by preparing the rules 
and regulations accompanying the Anti-Corruption Act, finalizing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, 
strengthening the Royal Audit Authority and the Royal Civil Service Commission. 
 
¾
Improving the regulatory framework by ensuring good corporate governance and accountability in the 
management of SOEs. 
 
1
While education and health are no longer key focus areas of the DPG, there are ongoing Bank operations in these areas, and 
other donors are also actively involved in the human development sectors.   
Page  3
¾
Widening the use of e-governance by developing ICT solutions that also limit the opportunities for 
corruption, such as one-stop shops for government services provided at arms length.  
 
Fostering employment generation 
 
8. 
A recurring issue in Bhutan, and one that was a central part of the political discourse during the 
past elections, is employment.  With a large share of GDP flowing through the government, and 
policy measures seeking to limit the expansion of the civil service, ensuring adequate job creation 
for growing cohorts of school leavers is a key concern.  Addressing the challenges of employment 
generation will require a multi-pronged approach, including: 
¾
Strengthening the institutional context by implementing the rules and regulations for the Labor and 
Employment Act, developing the Labornet, expanding the job portal, and strengthening tertiary education. 
 
¾
Enhancing labor market monitoring to underpin policy by rolling out the Labor Market Information 
System, and implementing youth employment and other labor market surveys. 
 
¾
Improving the skills match in the labor market by ensuring education and youth training programs are 
well matched with growth areas (IT, tourism/hospitality, others). 
 
Expanding access to infrastructure, especially roads, electricity, and ICT 
9.  Access to infrastructure services has been identified as a key priority for Bhutan to meet its 
development objectives.  Providing rural road access is essential for socio-economic development 
of remote rural areas where much of the Bhutanese population lives.  Some of the tangible 
benefits of improving rural connectivity include better access to markets, education and health.  
Electricity is also essential for increasing income earning opportunities, raising productivity, and 
improving the quality of life.  The draft Tenth Plan charts an ambitious course for road expansion 
and electrification.  Spending on the road sector is expected to increase by at least 250 percent 
compared with the Ninth Plan, while rural electrification is also to expand rapidly.  Strong 
institutional arrangements and sector policies will be essential to delivering on these ambitious 
targets.  Elements of this broad area could include: 
¾
Strengthening the institutional structure of the Department of Roads within the Ministry of Works and 
Human Settlements by implementing the findings of an Organization Development exercise, proceeding 
with outsourcing, and reviewing human resource requirements. 
 
¾
Improving contract management and quality control mechanisms at all levels in the execution of road 
projects from planning through to construction by establishing a skill enhancement program, and 
preparing an operational manual. 
 
¾
Strengthening the capacity of contracting industry by adopting new contracting methods including long 
term performance based maintenance contracts, providing support for private sector development, 
promoting competition and professionalism, developing performance monitoring system for contractors, 
and fostering the development of the consulting industry in the country. 
 
¾
Bolstering governance arrangements through enhanced procurement and FM practices.   
 
¾
Supporting the RGoB’s agenda for rapid development of hydropower resources and rural electrification 
by strengthening institutional structures and enhancing regulatory effectiveness. 
 
¾
Improving access to IT by enabling access to fairly priced backbone capacity in Bhutan, and 
strengthening the capacity of regulatory function in Bhutan InfoComm and Media Authority (BICMA). 
 
D. Environment Aspects 
Page  4
10. Bhutan continues to place a heavy emphasis on environmental preservation as a valued national 
heritage that contributes essentially to its distinctive notion of Gross National Happiness.  The 
diversity of its fauna and flora make it a major 
“biodiversity hot-spot,” and the Constitution 
provides for the maintenance of 60 percent of Bhutan’s land under forest cover indefinitely.  
Several key sectors draw significant benefits from sound environmental management, including 
hydropower, which depends on adequate land use management to avoid siltation, and the tourism 
industry, which depends in large part on the pristine environment.  The high priority attached to 
environmental issues is reflected in the adoption of ‘environment friendly road construction’ 
techniques, despite the added cost.  Emerging challenges include guiding the urbanization and 
economic modernization process, as well as ensuring adequate environmental management 
capacity.  The reform program being supported through the DPGs is not expected to have any 
direct negative impacts on the environment.        
 
E. Tentative financing 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
18 
 Total 
18 
 
F. Contact points: 
 
Ananya Basu 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (91-11) 41479138 
Fax: (91-11) 24619393 
Email: 
abasu@worldbank.org
Christian Eigen-Zucchi 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4960 
Fax: 
(202)-522-0356
 
Email: 
ceigenzucchi@worldbank.org
