Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4438 
Operation Name 
BHUTAN: Development Policy Grant/Credit for Institutional 
Strengthening 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (43%);General industry and 
trade sector (21%);Vocational training (15%);Adult literacy/non-
formal education (15%);Sub-national government administration 
(6%) 
Project ID 
P111222 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 4, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 27, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
April 30, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) has made significant progress in implementing its medium-
term program of institutional and policy reforms anchored in its Ninth Five-Year Plan (9FYP).  The 
World Bank has 
supported the RGoB’s development efforts through two budgetary operations.  The First 
Development Policy Grant (DPG1) provided US$ 15 million in budget support in FY06 to help the RGoB 
meet selected development goals, and contributed to deepening the policy dialogue.  Based on continued 
good progress on the medium-term reform program, a Second Development Policy Grant (DPG2) for 
US$ 12 million was approved in May 2007, and was linked to strengthening the reform program and 
quickening the pace of implementation.  Both operations have closed, and have satisfactorily achieved 
their development objectives.
1
The RGoB has requested continued Bank engagement through policy-based lending to support 
institutional development in selected areas.  With the Kingdom’s momentous move to democracy, the 
RGoB emphasizes that strong donor support is especially important through this period of transition, to 
help ensure that the new democratic government has the resources to deliver public services, and to 
sustain development progress.  The reform program supported by the proposed budgetary operation will 
help promote continuity and provide a good foundation for the newly elected government.   
 
Both the RGoB and the Bank have found policy-based financing to be an effective mode of supporting 
development in Bhutan.  Accordingly, the Bank proposes the continuation of budget support to the 
RGoB’s reforms through the preparation of a new Development Policy Grant/Credit for Institutional 
Strengthening (DPGIS) to Bhutan.  The conclusion of the first two operations and the coming into office 
of a newly-elected government also make this a good time to review past experience, reflect upon lessons 
learnt, and revise the broad areas of reform.  Following several rounds of discussions, the RGoB indicated 
that it wishes to emphasize institutional strengthening in three areas in DPGIS, which are in close 
alignment with its Tenth Five-Year Plan (10FYP) objectives and strategies:  
 
1
See Implementation Completion and Results Report, ICR0000815. 
Page  2
o
Promoting good governance through sound fiscal and public financial management and 
procurement, and strong accountability institutions;  
o
Fostering dynamic labor markets, ensuring skills match, and generating employment;  
o
Expanding access to infrastructure (roads, hydropower, ICT) in an environmentally sustainable 
manner.   
 
The effects of the global economic crisis on Bhutan have been minimal so far.  The relative insulation of 
Bhutan’s financial sector from the global financial system protects the country from direct systemic 
banking failure due to the global financial crisis.  However, the channel at which Bhutan will be impacted 
will likely come from its strong ties to the Indian economy, which is a major provider of project-tied and 
program-oriented grants.  The impact of the financial crisis on the Indian economy has been quite 
significant, with corporate job cuts, a reduction in the economic growth rate, and falling stock markets.  
To date, however, there is no financial or fiscal crisis projected in Bhutan.  
 
Overall, the RGoB’s macroeconomic outlook remains favorable.  The RGoB seeks to maintain sound 
macroeconomic performance over the medium term, and targets limiting of the 
overall deficit
 (including 
grants) to less than five percent of GDP.  This has been broadly achieved for the last three years.  The 
debt burden
,
which already exceeds 60 percent of GDP, is likely to rise over the next few years, as 
hydropower projects are launched to meet the ambitious goals of the 10FYP.  However, even though 
Bhutan’s debt indicators superficially appear to be high, this is less of a problem than the numbers may 
suggest.  Although debt servicing will rise, the resources needed to service debt will be generated directly 
by assets created through borrowing.   Much of the projected increase in government debt in the medium 
term is driven by hydropower debt, and non-hydropower debt broadly remains under a third of total debt. 
The 
balance of payments
 is expected to deteriorate during the 10FYP, reflecting the rapid growth of 
hydropower-related imports and large debt servicing requirements.  The current account deficit is 
projected to widen, even though inflows on the capital account, in the form of foreign direct investment, 
grants from India, and foreign aid from development partners will help Bhutan maintain a positive 
balance of payments, which will contribute to a modest increase in total reserves.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The overarching objectives of the proposed DPGIS are to strengthen institutions in order to: (a) promote 
good governance through sound fiscal and public financial management and procurement, and strong 
accountability institutions; (b) foster dynamic labor markets, ensure skills match, and generate 
employment; and (c) expand access to infrastructure in an environmentally sustainable manner.  These are 
viewed by the RGoB as critical to sustain robust development performance over the medium term.  These 
development objectives are closely aligned with the strategic priorities of the 10FYP. The operation will 
seek to consolidate the reforms supported under DPG1&2, while highlighting new areas identified in 
consultation with the newly-elected government.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed DPGIS highlights a number of new issues articulated by the incoming government and 
reflected in the 10FYP (2008/09 - 2013/14), which was finalized in January 2009.  The 10FYP identifies 
key development issues and describes the RGoB’s reform program over the coming five-year period.  The 
plan targets annual growth rates in excess of eight percent, and emphasizes the need to: vitalize industry 
(fostering activity in manufacturing, hydropower, tourism, and information and communication 
technology (ICT)); strengthen national spatial planning (balancing regional development and managing 
the rapid pace of urbanization); synergize integrated rural-urban development (encouraging the  
commercialization of agriculture through enhanced rural accessibility); expand strategic infrastructure 
Page  3
(prioritizing investments in rural infrastructure to maximize linkages with markets and growth centers); 
invest in human capital (enhancing access to vocational education and training, as well as improving the 
quality of tertiary education); and ensure good governance (strengthening accountability institutions).  
The proposed DPGIS
 closely supports the 10FYP, which is also the RGoB’s Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper. 
 
Given its small size, Bhutan will always remain susceptible to economic volatility, and financing will be 
needed, along with fiscal prudence, to help maintain macroeconomic targets.  As such, assistance from 
India, other bilateral development partners, and multilateral agencies is important for financing Bhutan’s 
sustainable development agenda.  This proposed World Bank-financed operation will assist Bhutan in 
advancing its development priorities, and is expected to finance over one-third of the fiscal deficit 
currently projected.
2
4. Financing 
 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
5.3 million 
IDA Credit 
15.2 million 
 Total 
20.5 
million 
 
This will be discussed further with the RGoB at appraisal. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Department of Public Accounts (DPA), Ministry of Finance, will be responsible for overall 
implementation and monitoring of DPGIS.  The RGoB has already established an inter-ministerial group 
of officials, headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, to provide overall coordination for the DPG 
process.  This group has been working with the Bank team since the inception of the DPG operations, and 
is familiar with Bank procedures.  
 
The Bank team will supervise the project by monitoring actions and reviewing implementation progress 
of the proposed operation.  The Policy Program Matrix of the proposed operation will provide a results 
framework that describes expected outputs / outcomes, as well as indicators to gauge progress and 
monitor interim steps.  Implementation support missions will be undertaken at regular intervals, in 
consultation with the RGoB. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits relate closely to the above objectives and to the Tenth Five-Year Plan.  In a generally well-
managed country like Bhutan, which is already making good progress in development and reforms, and 
which is on-track for achieving most of the MDGs, the expected benefits of DPGIS in supporting the 
government’s program are substantial.  In the medium term, the program is expected to contribute to 
improved use of public resources, decreased unemployment, and better access to infrastructure.  The 
funds provided to the RGoB through the proposed operation are expected to finance about one-third of the 
fiscal deficit in 2008/09.  This will help to maintain the RGoB’s macroeconomic framework, and increase 
availability of resources for development priorities.
 
2
This is based on the latest available projections, on the date of preparation of this document. 
Page  4
The main risks that need to be managed relate to: (a) political uncertainty stemming from the transition to 
democracy
—mitigated by the government’s careful preparation and consultation on the new governance 
arrangements, and commitment to sustaining reforms; (b) external shocks resulting from the lack of 
economic diversification and the impacts of the global economic crisis—mitigated by strengthening 
public expenditure management, efforts to foster private sector development, and by the fact that there are 
no significant impacts of the crisis showing on the Bhutanese economy to date; (c) capacity constraints 
due to the small scale of government—mitigated by the government’s ongoing capacity building efforts 
(in many areas supported by development partners); and (d) environmental risks from infrastructure 
expansion—mitigated by sound environmental policies and requirements, and efforts to mainstream 
environmental issues at sectoral levels.
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is expected to yield several positive social impacts.  No significant negative 
impact is anticipated.  Supportive government policies have ensured that Bhutan is on track to achieve 
most of its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for which data are available.  Several targets, such as 
increasing access to safe drinking water and sanitation, as well as reducing the proportion of under-five 
children who are under-weight, have already been achieved.
3
Most indicators on health and education 
attainments place Bhutan above South Asian averages, and the poverty headcount ratio continues to show 
substantial reductions, falling from 36.2 percent in 2000 to 23.2 percent in 2007, with the incidence of 
poverty much lower in urban areas (1.7 percent) than in rural areas (30.9 percent).
4
The RGoB is 
committed to improving the living standards of the population as demonstrated by heavy public spending 
on the provision of social services, especially in remote areas.  The 10FYP’s overarching objective is the 
reduction in poverty.  The operation will contribute to positive social and poverty impacts as described 
below. 
 
¾
Measures to provide sound macroeconomic and fiscal underpinnings for continued steady economic 
growth will help improve the quality of life for all sections of the population.  Improved budgetary 
planning processes and reduced volatility will enable resources to be focused on poverty-related 
expenditures or social-infrastructure.  
 
¾
Reforms to foster employment generation by promoting the private sector and improving skills 
matches will have direct social benefits in the form of enhanced employment opportunities for the 
population.  These reforms will help school-leavers to find suitable jobs, and employers to find 
suitable candidates.   
 
¾
The governance reforms would reduce corruption, which tends to hurt the poor disproportionately.  
Measures to enhance service delivery and better manage public funds would also have social benefits 
for the economy as a whole. 
 
¾
Measures to improve infrastructure availability will help poor and remote communities to access to 
basic services.  It will also encourage private sector development, and help sustain the growth 
momentum.  This will be beneficial to the entire economy. 
3
MDG Needs Assessment and Costing Report 2007, Planning Commission, Royal Government of Bhutan.  
4
The National Statistical Bureau (NSB) released the Bhutan Living Standard Survey (BLSS) 2007 Report and the Poverty 
Analysis Report (PAR) 2007.  The BLSS was undertaken in the first half of 2007 with the support of the UN agencies in 
Bhutan.  This is not strictly comparable to the pilot Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES) of 2000, which was 
the first attempt to quantify poverty in Bhutan at the household level.  However, these form the only time series estimates 
of poverty available. 
Page  5
No major environmental concerns are noted for the first two themes supported under DPGIS.  The 
potential environmental concerns related to the third theme of improving access to infrastructure are more 
significant. Bhutan’s mountainous terrain is environmentally sensitive and fragile. The 10FYP has set 
ambitious targets for the development of roads and hydropower, and extension of electricity transmission 
lines in the country.  The environmental concerns of these investments are mainly related to risks of 
landslides and erosion in the fragile hilly terrain, impacts on forests and biodiversity, and disaster risks 
such as from glacial lakes outburst floods and earthquakes.  In general, these are longer-term risks, linked 
to the substantial expansion of infrastructure—and are likely to be of concern beyond the immediate 
period of the proposed DPG series.  However, it is important that these issues be addressed upfront.  
 
Adverse environmental impacts of DPGIS are expected to be minimal, provided Bhutan’s environmental 
policies and management systems are effectively applied.  Bhutan has a reasonably sound environmental 
policy and legislative framework for environmental safeguard, mitigation, and management. Projects or 
development activities are not permitted in the core zone of protected areas.  All development proposals 
are subject to environmental screening and assessment processes, and procedures which result in the 
establishment of environmental management plans that incorporate specific recommendations for 
mitigating negative environmental impacts.  The sectoral guidelines for application of Environmental 
Clearances and Codes of Practices recognize the above-mentioned and other environmental risks relevant 
to the sector, and require that they be addressed and mitigated for each project.
5
In the roads sector, DoR 
has gained considerable experience in Environmentally Friendly Road Construction (EFRC) during 
implementation of Rural Access Projects, and the approach is being mainstreamed to all road construction 
activities.  
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Ananya Basu 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 91-11-41479138 
Fax: 91-11-24619393 
Email: Abasu@worldbank.org 
Location: New Delhi, India (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
5
These include Application for Environmental Clearance Guideline for Hydropower, Application for Environmental Clearance 
Guideline for Highways and Roads, Application for Environmental Clearance Guideline for Transmission and Distribution 
Lines, and Application for Environmental Clearance Guideline for the Preparation of Industrial Project Reports (issued by 
the National Environment Commission, in August 2004).  
Page  6
