Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
£'           -        I      -     i
Report No. P-4664-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500.0 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
nctober 21, 1987
This document has a restricled distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEXS)
Or. October 14, 1987, the exchange rate in the controlled market
was US$1 - Mex$1,590.10; the free market exchange rate stood at US$1 =
Mex$1,582.0n.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)  =  10,000 square meters (m2)  =  2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms  =1 metric ton (t)  =  0.98 lorg tor
1 liter (1)  =  0.26 gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF            Average Cost of Furds (see CPP for Spanish)
BNCE           Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
BdM            Banco de Mexico (Central Bank)
CONASUPO       Consejo Nacional de Subsistencias Populares
CPP            Costo Promedio Porcentual (see ACF for Er.glish)
DRC            Domestic Resource Cost
EFF            Extended Fund Facility
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FICORCA        Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Rilesgos Cambiarios (Private
sector external debt restructuring facility operated bv the
BdM)
FRR            Finarcial Rate of Returr
GATT           General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GIRA           General Interest Rate Agreement
ItHF           International Monetary Fund
NTBs           Nor.-Tariff Barriers
ORP            Official Import Reference Price
PEMEX          Petroleos Mexicanos
PRONAFICE      National Program for Industrial Development and Trade
PVP            Sistema de Pagos al Valor Presente
QRs            Quantitative Restrictions
REER           Real Effective Exchange Rate
SECOFI         Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development
TPL            Trade Policy Loan
TPL I          First Trade Policy Loan
TPL II         Second Trade Policy Loan
TFP            Total Factor Productivity



-ii-               FOR o CIA  USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...........................................        i
PART I:    THE ECONOMY*                                                     I
A.  Background  I.............................................       1
B. Recent Developments                                               3
C.  Priority Areas of Structural Reforms                             6
-    Public Sector Resource Management        ..................  6
-    Industrial Restructuring............................       8
-    Agricultural Sector Policy .....     ....................  8
-    Foreign Investment  ................. ,                    9
-    Financial Sector Reform ......     ......................  9
D.  Development Prospects                                          10
E.  External Debt and Creditworthiness ...ll.................    11
PART II:   IRADE LIBERALIZATION AND RELATED POLICY CHANGES 1........   1I
A.  Trade Policy, 1950-1985 *0.......0.       **......    11
B.  Trade Reform in 1986 - The TPL I Progra o...o........,...... 13
-  Non-Tariff Barriers and Tariffs                             13
-  Export Controls and Duties                                  14
-  Accession to GATT ....................................    14
-  The Anti-Dumping Law-and Regulations .................    14
-  Related Policy Changes                                      15
C.  The Second Trade Policy (TPL II) Program                        16
-  Scope                                                       16
-  NTB Reductions                                              16
-  Tariff Reform  .....18
-  Related Policy Issues                                       19
D.  Social Impact of Trade Liberalization                           19
PART III:  THE PROPOSED LOAN ....21
A* Loan History                                                     21
B.  Loan Objectives and the Trade Liberalization Program.....    21
C* The Borrower                                                    24
D.  Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing..    24
E.  Effectiveness and Tranche Release ......................    24
F. Mlonitoring and Reporting ..........................*.¢.         25
G.  Benefits and Risks **@*e*@**@-**@***-***-****t9we    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iii-
Page No.
PART IV:   BANK GtOUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO          .........................   27
As Bank Operations   .ee.....                  .ee.............    27
B.  IFC Operations              .      . ..................**28
C.  Bank Strategy                         .                        28
PART V:    COLLABWRATION WITH THE IMP ...........so........ *..........   30
PART VI:   RECOMMENDATION                         .                       31
TEXT TABLES:
1.  Mexico:  Evolution of Import Protection:  1960-87  .......     12
2.  Percentage of Production Under NTBs .....    ................  17
3. Tariff Reduction Program, 1986-88 .....      ..................  22
4.  Trade Policy Reform Matrix ......     ........................  23
ANNEXES
Annex I.    Fact Sheet on the Mexican External Financing
Package; Economic Indicators; Balance of Payments,
External Assistance and Debt
Annex II.   Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex III.  Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV.   Recent Developments and the Economic and Trade Policy Program
for 1987 (Government's Statement of Development Policy)
Annex V.    DMF Position as of March 31, 1987
Annex VI.   Trade and Economic Statistics
Table 1:  Quantitative Restrictions on Imports, 1956-86
Table 2:  Structure of Quantitative Restrictions (Rs), 1984-87
Table 3:  Controlled Import Items by Sector of Origin
Table 4: Changes in Structure of the Import Tariff, 1985-87
Table 5:  Percentage of Production Under qRs (8/87)
Table 6:  Structure of Official Reference Prices, 1986, 1987
Tabie 7:  Coincidence of Domestic Price Controls and Import
Restrictions, March, 1987
Table 8: Coincidence of Domestic Price Controls and (RPs
Table 9: Coincidence of Domestic Price Controls and Export
Controls, March 1987
Table 10: Structure of Controlled Non-Oil Merchandise Exports
as of March 1987
Table 11: Effective Rates of Puotection in Selected Industries
Table 12: Principal Sources and Uses of Foreign Exchange Income
on Current Accounts 1977-86
Table 13: Manufactured Exports, 1975-76
Table 14: Patterns of Structural Adjustment



-iv-
Annex VII.  Graphics of Key Economic Indicators
Figure 1:   Long Term Trend in GDP Growth Rate
Figure 2: Ratio on Non-Oil Exports to GDP
Figure 3:   Inflation Trends
Figure 4:   Structure of Tax Revenues
Figure 5:   Non-Interest Public Sector Expenditures
Figure 6:   Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
Figure 7: Operational Deficit of- Public Sector
Figure 8:   Ratio of Domestic Debt to GDP
Figure 9:   Domestic Debt and Monetary Base
Figure 10: Nonetary Growth From Domestic Source
Map IBRD 20343



M¢XICO
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrowert          Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Amounti            US$500.0 million equivalent
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Loan and Prorram
Descriptions       The proposed loan is the second adjustment operation to
support the Government's strategy of trade
liberalization, which aims at achieving greater domestic
efficiency and international competitiveness as the
means to generate growth and employment. It is also an
important part of the package of external financing in
the period 1986-88 linked to implementation of Mexico's
economic reform. The initial phase of the trade
liberalization, supported by the first Trade Policy Loan
(TPL I), was successfully implemented in 1986. The
second phase, supported by the proposed loan, would
focus on further elimination of discretionary, non-
tariff barriers (NTBs) to imports including quantitative
restrictions and official reference prices, along with
the continued reduction of the level and dispersion of
the tariff structure according to a pre-announced
calez.dar.  The loan would finance part of the imports
not subject to NTBs.
Benefits and
Risks:             The trade reform program is making a major contribution
to the recovery of sustained growth and Mexico's
creditworthiness. By stimulating greater efficiency and
competitiveness, and strengthening external confidence
in policy management, the program can also help reduce
inflationary pressures in the economy. A primary risk
of the program would be that the macroeconomic policy
framework might not remain adequately supportive of
trade liberalization. For example, any sharp
appreciation of the real exchange rate could potentially
derail the currently strong export drive and trigger
balance of p&yments difficulties. Were this to happen,
a reversal of the liberalization of imports might occur.
A failure to maintain fiscal discipline in an election
year would pose additional difficulties, exacerbating
inflation and undermining the private sector confidence
crucial to successful trade adjustment. A second risk



-2-
would be that, as the trade adjustment process deepens,
dislocations in inefficient import competing sectors
will be inevitable. If factors of production cannot be
smoothly transferred to expanding efficient sectors,
then mounting domestic pressures against the
liberalization can be expected. In part, this transfer
of resources will be helped or hindered by the readiness
of the Government to introduce complementary reforms in
areas such as parastatal management and agricultural and
industrial reform. The third risk is that the external
environment will become increasingly hostile to
developing countries like Mexico, who require continued
accessjto growing world export markets, especially in
the developed countries, to continue servicing their
external debt smoothly while regaining acceptable rates
of growth. The domestic risks are reduced by the
Government's strong commitment to: (i) maintaining a
sound marcroeconomic framework, as demonstrated by its
performance under the stand-by agreement with the IMF in
1986, and on its targets for 1987; and (ii) continuing
policy reform, as demonstrated by its actions in 1987 on
tariffs and NTBs, domestic price controls and
parastatals. Another favorable development is the
gradual recovery of the economy, which is reinforcing
the resolve to continue with present reforms.
Estimated
Disbursement:      The loan would be disbursed in two tranches, the first
one of US$300 million and the second of US$200 million.
The first tranche would be available for disbursement at
the time of loan effectiveness. The second tranche
would be releeved upon fulfil!ment of specified
conditions, including the reduction of NTB coverage by
20 percentage poirts of domestic production from the
level which prevailed in November 1986 through removing
NTBs on items other than petroleum and derivatives.
Sec;ond tranche release is expected to be authorized in
March of 1988.
Schedule of
Disbursements:                                      Amount in US$ Millions
Bank FY                                  1988
Annual
First and Second Tranche               500.0
Cumulative                               500.0
Apiraisal
Retort:            This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL MBM  FOR UCONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO)4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDEIIS 'O THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECOND TRADM POLICY LOAN TO
BAlCO NACION#L DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C. (BANCO W T, NCE), with
the guarantee of the United Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$500
million, in support of the Government's program of trade policy reform.
The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Report on Mexico (fticos After the Oil Boom:
skefashioning a Strategy for Growth. No. 6v39-M%) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 23, 1987. It updates recent economic
developments and assesses the implications of the rapid policy changes
underway in Mexico, particularly following the sharp decline in oil prices
in 1986.
A. Background
3.       Mexico experienced three decades of high and stable growth from
the 19409 to the 1960s, based on an inward-looking growth strategy. By
1970, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the easy possibilities for
import substitution, and growth started to slow down. The Government
attempted to foster growth through an expansion of public sector
expenditures, and the encouragement of high-cost, capital-intensive import
substitution. This strategy failed to sustain sound economic growth, and in
1976 Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis. The
exchange rate was devalued, and an International Monetary Fund (IHF) stand-
by program implemented. New oil revenues led to a quick economic recovery
in 1977, and greatly enlarged Mexico's access to foreign borrowing.
Starting in 1980, rapidly rising public expenditures, unmatched by gains in
revenue, generated huge increases in public sector deficits. Although
inflation rose rapidly, no significant pressure was felt to adjust, because
of burgeoning oil export earnings and abundant foreign financing. As
imparts increased rapidly and non-oil exports declined, an appreciating
real exchange rate and lagging domestic interest rates encouraged capital
flight. However, the increasing precariousness of the balance of payments
was masked for a time by a frenzy of borrowing, which nearly doubled the
level of external debt in just two years from ?S$40 billion in 1979 to
US$78 billion in 1981.



4.       The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures
reached the unprecedented level of 47.5 of GDP, while the deficit reached
nearly 182 of GDP. In February, the Bank of Mexico stopped supporting the
peso, which then experienced a 402 devaluation. But a large wage
adjustment, continuing slack in the oil market, and lax fiscal and monetary
policies tended to undo the competitive effects of the devaluation and kept
the balance of payments under strain. Inflation measured in consun4er
prices nearly quadrupled, from 292 in 1981 to 992 in 1982. Commercial
banks, which had granted Mexico substantial credit in previous years,
declined to commit new funds in the amounts required. These factors led to
a second devaluation of 352 in August 1982 and the suspension of
amortization payments on most of Mexico's external public debt. The
nationalization of the domestic private commercial banks in September 1982,
and the forced conversion cf foreign currency accounts into pesos at a
controlled exchange rate, dealt additional blows to private sector
confidence. The flight of capital abroad continued at a high rate.
5.       With the support of an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from the IMF,
the new administration of President Miguel de la Madrid undertook a
stabilization program beginning in late 1982 based on a large contraction
of domestic demand, mainly through fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary
policies. The peso was depreciated by an immediate 302 (in addition to the
642 cumulative depreciation carried out by the preceding government in
1982), and quantitative restrictions were extended to cover all imports.
Over the next two years, public sector expenditure excluding interest
payments declined from a high of 392 of GDP in 1982 to about 292 in 1984,
while revenues rose from about 302 to 332 of GDP. Public sector investment
was cut from an average of around 102 of GDP in the late 1970s to 7.52 in
1984, a contraction of about one-third in real terms. Between 1982 and
1984, the public sector borrowing requirement declined from 17.72 of GDP to
7.2Z, while the operational fiscal deficit (excluding the inflationary
component of interest payments on domestic debt) shifted from a deficit of
72 to a surplus of 12 of GDP. Real wages fell 20-252, while most public
sector prices were raised sharply in real terms. And a massive foreign
debt restructuring was successfully negotiated in 1983 and again in 1984.
6.       The results of the 1983-84 stabilization effort were initially
impressive. Nominal imports fell 25Z, non-oil export earnings (including
the earnings of in-bond industries) rose 40a, and the balance of trade on
goods and non-factor services showed unprecedented surpluses averaging
around 9s of GDP. Despite declining oil prices, net foreign reserves
increased US$2.0 billion to US$6.5 billion between the enid of 1982 and the
end of 1984. And a strong turn around in economic activity from -5.32 in
1983 to 3.72 in 1984 led many to believe a long-term recovery was underway.
However, most of the adjustment took the form of drastic cuts in imports
and investment. In contrast, long-term obstacles to growth were not
confronted. The anti-export bias of the trade regime was actually
intensified with the introduction of additional import controls. Nor was
the system of industrial incentives built up over the preceeding three
decades overhauled in ways which might have enhanced Mexico's international
competitiveness.



- 3 -
7.       The optimism generated by Mexico's initial adjustment su.cess soon
started to fade. The operational fiscal balance, after improving
substantially in 1983, levelled off in 1984. Inflation did not decline as
rapidly as anticipated by the IMf and the authorities, with consumer prices
rising by 811 from end-1982 to end-1983, and by 591 from end-1983 to end-
1984. As the Government prepared for the mid-term Congressional elections
of July 1985, monetary policy became accommodating, the fiscal deficit rose
well above program targets, and the exchange rate appreciated rapidly in
real terms. The brief recovery of growth was soon accompanied by rising
inflation, and turned out to be short-lived. Optimism turned to
disenchantment as it became clear that stabilization in the absence of more
fundamental structural reforms could not restore sustainable economic
growth.
8.       Most IMF program targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit
rose to 10? of GDP, inflation increased tc 63.7?, non-oil exports declined
by over 10X from their 1984 levels, and most components of the balance of
payments deteriorated. Net foreign reserves declined by US$3.4 billion.
Crowding out of the private sector in the credit markets became severe
toward the end of the year, as financial disintermediation accelerated and
the share of the public sector in total credit reached unprecedented
levels, in excess of 75?.
9.       It was only in mid-1985 that macro-stabilization measures were
complemented with the structural reforms needed to deal with Mexico"s long-
term development problems. At the heart of these reforms was the
Government's desire to increase the efficiency of Mexican industry through
greater exposure to international competition, to reduee the economy's
dependence on oil exports and foreign borrowing, and to create a new
stimulus for growth. The first major reforms were introduced in July 1985.
They included removing import licensing requirements from 40? of
merchandise imports, unveiling plans to merge, liquidate, or sell to the
private sector several hundred smaller state-owned companies, and starting
the rationalization of some major parastatal operations in steel,
fertilizers, agricultural commodities, petrochemicals, trucks and sugar.
10.      As for the macro-stabilization measures, the Government introduced
spending cutbacks in the public sector, including the elimination of some
25,000 full-time positions. Interest rates were raised frequently after
April 1985, achieving sustained positive levels for the first time since
mid-1984. Also, the controlled exchange rate was devalued by almost 20% in
nominal terms, and the system of a preannounced fixed daily crawl was
replaced by a more flexibly managed float linked to achieving steady
increases in official reserves. This new exchange rate policy greatly
narrowed the margin between the controlled and free rates and, combined
with tighter domestic credit, helped bring capital flight to a virtual halt
toward the end of of 1985.
B. Recent Developments
11.      In early 1986, the economy was severely affected by a sharp drop
in international petroleum prices and the consequent fall in national



- 4 -
income, export receipts, and public sector revenues. Mexico's losses from
lower oil prices and volume exported were equivalent to about 6.5
percentage points of 1986 GDP (i.e., over US$8 billion).
12.      The Mesiran Government responded to these deteriorating conditions
with an intensified economic program of growth-oriented adjustment and
structural reform, along the lines of what had been launched in mid-1985,
but with accelerated implementation. Furthermore, highly visible policy
actions were undertaken to give a clear signal that the integration of
Mexico to the world economy vas a permanent objective. Mexico joined
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in mid-1986 and announced a
three-year program to lower tariffs to a maximum of 30Z by Occober 1988, to
eliminate all official reference prices, and to undertake further gradual
reductions in quantitative restrictions. In the area of foreign direct
investment, the Government streamlined procedures for initiating and
approving foreign investment projects, so as to increase the flow of
foreign capital to selected sectors.
13.      Furthermore, the authorities strengthened public finances through
reform of the tax system, adjustments in the prices and tariffs of public
enterprises, and large real reductions in investment spending. The pace of
divestiture of many non-strategic firms accelerated with the announcement
of the closure of a major steel plant in Monterrey and privatization of the
country's largest hotel chain, along with the privatization. merger, or
liquidation of about 500 smaller publicly-owned companies over the
succeeding 12 months. The Government has also launched a process to
improve public investment management. In agriculture, sectoral reforms
resulted in modest reductions of quantitative restrictions on imports, the
initiation of wide-ranging improvements in the finances of the state-owned
marketing enterprise Consejo Nacional de Subsistencias Populares
(CONASUPO), the fertilizer parastatal, and the sugar milling complex, and
the virtual elimination of food subsidies, except for some low-income urban
consumers.
14.      Mexico's program of growth-oriented adjustment is being supported
by a comprehensive financial package intended to provide up to US$10.7
billion in net new disbursements through the first quarter of 1988. The
financing package includes planned increases of US$2.7 billion and US$1.6
billion, respectively, in the exposure of multilateral (in particular, the
World Bank) and bilateral (Japan, US) creditors, about US$6 billion from
commercial banks, and US$0.4 billion net from an IMF stand-by.
Disbursements are closely linked to the pace of structural reforms being
undertaken. The package also contains several contingency facilities--
backed by the cormercial banks and the IMF--originally intended to provide
as much as US$2.3 billiou in additional finance. These contingency
facilities ensure that public sector investment will not fall below levels
targetted in the program in the event of lower oil prices, and make
possible an increase in selected public sector capital outlays should the
economy fail to emerge from recession by the end of the first quarter of
1987. (It now appears unlikely that the Oil Facility will be triggered
because of subsequent improvements in world oil prices. However, it is
expected that the Growth Facility, in the amount of US$0.5 billion, will
be activated shortly, as growth in the first quarter of 1987 was
negligible). Among other components of the financial package are
modifications in the terms of commercial bank debt outstanding prior to



September 1986, rescheduling of US$1.8 billion in Paris Club debt, and
agreement to refinance k.reviously restructured private sector debt (US$11.2
billion), as well as maintain outstanding credit lines to Mexican banks.
15.      The success of the economic program will depend critically on
maintaining supportive macro-economic policies. In this regard,
considering the magnitude of the oil shock, the deterioration in the main
economic variables during 1986 was smaller than originally expected.
Fiscal performance in 1986 was slightly stronger than programmed in the IMF
agreement. The operational deficit rose by less than one percentage point
of GDP to 1.7Z, while overall public sector borrowing requirements reached
16.6X. These compare to the respective targets of 2.12 and 16.92.
Interest rates were raised sharply during the latter half of 1986 to
positive real levels, exceeding 20 percentage points for treasury bills and
some key lines of credit. The balance ef payments also was stronger than
had been projected, as non-oil exports expanded by 34Z to exceed oil export
revenue for the first time since 1978. The current account balance
declined by US$2.5 billion, or less than a third of the loss in oil export
revenues, while net foreign reserves excluding IffF credit declined by only
US$1.2 billion. There was a sharp turnaround in private capital flows with
repatriations for the first time in more than a decade of roughly US$1.5
billion. Stock prices doubled in real terms. Inflation, while reaching
1062 in the 12-month period ending December 1986, was somewhat below the
anticipated 1152. However, real GDP contracted by some 3.82.
16.      As the growth-oriented adjustment program enters a recovery stage,
new concerns are emerging, particularly because of the rapid rise of
inflation from 642 in 1985 to 106Z in 1986, and 1342 in the twelve months
ending August 1987. The present course of inflation appears to be the
product of diverse shocks and imbalances whose effects have cumulated over
time. In the early 1980s, it sprang primarily from large fiscal
disequilibria and the unavoidable temporary effects of adjusting long-
repressed prices and the exchange rate. No doubt, the sharp increase in
quantitative import restrictions in 1982-83 also removed what might have
been a useful competitive restraint on price increases and added to upward
pressures on the inflation rate. The collapse in oil export revenues in
early 1986 and the needed adjustment in the exchange rate added a new
inflationary shock. In 1987, it has been, paradoxically, the vigor and
effectiveness of Mexico's adjustment policies, notably the rapid real
devaluation of the peso, combined with high nominal domestic yields on
financial instruments, which resulted in rapidly accumulating reserves,
that addied new monetary impulses to inflation. Moreover, disinflation is
becoming more difficult, as increasingly frequent minimum wage and public
price adjustments, and the increased sensitivity of domestic debt se. rice
costs to short-term changes in inflation, create endogenous elements of
quasi-indexation in the economy.
17.      The acceleration of inflation poses urgent and critical choices
for policymakers, especially now that a comfortable foreign reserve
position has been restored. The lesson of the adjustment experience of
1983-85 is clear: reliance on exchange rate appreciation and falling real



- 6 -
interest rates to stifie inflation is costly and unsustainable. Some
appreciation of the real exchange rate is probably unavoidable, given that
the exceptionally low real exchange rate of late 1986 would be difficult to
sustain nov that exports have started to respond and the terms of trade
have improved. However, a sharp real appreciation must be avoided to
maintain stable incentives for non-oil exports. Solving Mexico's high
inflation will not be easy, but measures to dampen it might include:
(i) Pressing ahead with the three-year trade liberalization
program. In the present circumstances, there are short-term benefits to be
gained from accelerating this program. By increasing imports and placing a
lower ceiling on the rate of price increases, a faster reduction of import
barriers helps curb inflation, benefits consumers and efficient tradeable
goods producers, and relieves upward pressure on the exchange rate. The
Government has moved impressively to lower Non-Tariff Barrier (NTB)
coverage from 632 to about 432 of domestic production, in less than one
year. However, NTB coverage can still be lowered another 15 to 17
percentage points, while leaving sound leeway for oil and a few special
cases. With the present highly favorable real exchange rate, competition
from imports would be felt only gradually, giving time for import-competing
sectors to adjust.
(ii) A fiscal stance aimed at raising the 1987-88 primary
surplus perhaps 1.5 - 2.0? of GDP above the level originally contemplated,
would help to generate increased domestic savings needed to ease
inflationary pressures by reducing the demand for credit.
(iii) Accelerating the on-going program of structural reforms,
with a view toward creating a more competitive economy.  Areas where
furtler adjustment would be beneficial include: public sector resource
management; industrial restructuring; agriculture; foreign investment; and
th1v financial sector. These are briefly discussed in the following
pAragraphs.
C. Priority Areas of Structural Reform
18.      The de la Madrid Administration has been more active in
introducing structural reforms than any Mexican Government since the early
1950s. Whether in external trade, public enterprises, taxation, the
pricing of public services, monetary and exchange rate policies, or public
investment and procurement, the current administration has addressed
longstanding flaws in policy has been truly remarkable. In the following
sections, an overview of some key structural issues in a medium-term
perspective is presented. Recognizing that, however much has been
accomplished by the current government, the task of structural change will
require sustained effort for years to come.
Public Sector Resource Management
19.      A tax reform was introduced as part of the 1987 budget, to be
phased in over four years. It aims at reducing the distortions that have
resulted from high inflation. The corporate income tax base is being
broadened by allowing as deductions from taxable income only the real



-7-
component of interest payments. Concurrently, the corporate tax rate is
being lowered. Together, these two changes will make equity financing more
attractive for firms than debt financing. Other fiscal measures include
the closing of loopholes in the value-added tax, new incentives for the
states to increase their value-added tax collection efforts, and
significant increases in the resources devoted to curbing tax evasion.
20.      Regarding public expenditures, the 1987 budget called for
reductions of current outlays (public sector transfers and nonfinancial
expenditures other than wages) by about 1.1Z of GDP. To contain wage
costs, the total number of public sector employees was to be kept
unchanged, despite modest increases in vital social sectors (education and
health). On the other hand, an increase in capital expenditures equivalent
to 0.52 of GDP was planned as part of efforts to reactivate economic
growth. However, during the first half of 1987, while non-interest
(programmable) spending declined by llZ in real terms, this came about
largely because of reductions in real investment, which fell by half
relative to the first half of 1986. Current non-interest spending was
virtually unchanged in real terms. This emphasis on cuts in investment
rather than current outlays is consistent with the pattern of fiscal
spending adjustments of the past several years. An intensified search for
greater savings, notably from the public enterprises and further reductions
in some subsidies, would be desirable.
21.      Improvements in budgetary and public investment processes were
endorsed in the 1986 and 1987 budgets. Henceforth, ministries and agencies
are being asked to rank expenditure proposals by priority, identify
investments which would become operational during the fiscal year, propose
new investments outlays covering a two-year period and compare
appropriations versus actual outlays over the preceding two fiscal years.
Monthly and quarterly spending ceilings have been set and monitored for
compliance with fiscal goals. And budgetary procedures for externally-
financed projects have been changed to give implementing agencies stronger
incentives to draw down funds available from abroad. As experience is
gained with these procedures, other steps should be considered. The
horizon of multi-annual investment budgeting should be extended to at least
five years; federal quality control of project preparation should be
strengthened and duplication of responsibilities for project selection,
design, execution, and evaluation could be reduced.
22.      Another issue for which further Government attention is required
concerns the size of planned investments in certain capital-intensive
sectors. Reevaluation of their profitability, measured in international
prices and compared with investments to rehabilitate basic infrastructure
and improve human resources, might lead to some reallocations of existing
investment resources.
23.      The Government has made substantial adjustments in public sector
prices for energy, consumer foodstuffs, and urban transport in recent
years. Continued progress will be needed, not only in these areas, but
also in steel, fertilizer, and agricultural producer goods.



a -
24.      In the area of parastatal reform, in the course of reducing the
number of state entities f.om 1,155 in December 1982 to 588 by July 1987,
the Government decided to disengage from production of chemicals, textiles,
pharmaceuticals, and petrochemicals. This process may eventually be
extended to transportation equipment, coffee, and fishing. Also, a new Law
on Parastatal Entities, enacted in 1986, provides the framework for
modernizing management of the parastatals. It authorizes the liquidation
or sale of non-priority firms, greater autonomy with accountability for
parastatal managers, and the physical, financial, and organizational
restructuring of large parastatals.  Actu&1 implementation of the law's
provisions is likely to be a long-term process.
Industrial Restructuring
25.      Past policies resulted in an extensive pattern of industrial
growth in which output expansion was derived primarily from the incentives
provided by a trade regime that encouraged import substitution and
discouraged exports. Presently, the Government is shifting the policy
framework to favor a pattern of growth compatible with international
competitiveness. Efforts currently consist of: (i) extending and deepening
the trade reform process (See Part II of this Report); (ii) restructuring
parastatals in critical subsectors as discussed above; and (iii) supporting
private sector restructuring, with the assistance of a proposed Bank-
financed Industrial Restructuring Project. In this latter area, the
Government is selectively reducing price and regulatory intervention, and
reviewing the domestic content programs (Drogramas de rama). These
programs govern the automobile, pharmaceutical, capital goods, and
electronics industries, and are set to expire after 1988. The proposed
Industrial Restructuring Project would support a comprehensive approach for
targeted industries, designed to ensure appropriate relative prices, and
provide a package of investment and financial engineering aimed at
improving the international competitiveness of Mexican manufacturing.
Preparatory studies were completed in August 1987 for textiles, automobile
parts, and agroindustries. Once an agreed restructuring scheme has been
placed in effect, it could be extended to other industries, as necessary.
The business environment is currently favorable to this approach,
reflecting growing confidence in Governmental policies.
Agricultural Sector Policy
26.      Agriculture is of special economic and social importance in Mexico
given its substantial contribution to GDP (about 9.1, with agroindustry
contributing about another 7X), employment (25? of the labor force), and
international trade (about 26Z of non-oil exports). Oppressive poverty in
many rural areas, and the historically-sianificant political role of the
sector, are additional factors accounting for agriculture's particular
significance. Agriculture was penalized by the shift in the domestic terms
of trade resulting from import-substituting industrialization.
Agricultural growth rates averaged only around 2.41 annually between 1965
and 1980. During this period, the sector switched over from a major export
earner into a large net importer, dependent on credit and input subsidies.



Not surprisingly, the Government considers the revitalization of
agriculture one of the most important, if difficult, elements of the
structural recovery of Mexico.
27.      Substantial progress has been achieved in the past few years
towards improved price incentives for agricultural producers, phasing out
most subsidies to final consumers while targetting those few remaining
subsidies to help the truly needy, reducixug subsidies on agricultural
inputs, diminishing the role of parastatals in agricultural marketing,
storage, and processing, liberalizing trade in agricultural products,
rationalizing the public investment program in the sector, and
decentralizing and streamlining the Ministry of Agriculture. Further
reforms are essential in these areas and will be supported by a proposed
Agricultural Sector Loan.
Foreign Investment
28.      Consistent with its debt strategy and its move to an open trade
regime, the Government is taking steps to improve Mexico's appeal as a host
for foreign investment. It recently streamlined administrative procedures
for initiating and approving foreign investment applications, and
liberalized access rules for investments related to non-oil exports and new
technology. Majority foreign ownership of small and medium-sized firms no
longer requires Government authorization, so long as at least 35? of
production is exported. Also, new authorization is no longer required for
additional investments or for the restructuring of existing plants. The
volume of debt-equity conversions is expected to increase substantially in
1987 to between US$1.5-2.0 billion, and the benefits of the scheme have
been extended to Mexican investors. IFC has stepped up its support in
identifying new private investment opportunities, particularly for export
production. It is also assisting in a review of Mexico's capital markets,
and developing venture capital operations.
Financial Sector Reform
29.      Sustained and convincing progress towards restoring stable
macroeconomic conditions vill be a prerequisite for structural financial
sector reform. Rising public sector borrowing and the declining
availability of external credit have led to intermittent restrictions on
credit to the private sector, which received little more than one-fifth of
total credit flows in 1986. Although reserve requirements were eased and
the supply of credit to the private sector increased in August 1987, s0
long as the financial public sector deficit remains large, the availability
of adequate long-term credit to the private sector will be restricted.
Some measures, such as maintaining interest rates for savers consistently
above foreign rates adjusted for devaluation, would help speed
stabilization by sustaining the rising demand for local financial assets.
30.      The commercial banking sector needs to improve portfolio
management and capacity for analyzing project viability and borrower
performance. As a result of restructuring since 1983, the 20 or so



- 10 -
official development banks and trust funds have reduced overhead and
personnel. But, they, too, must focus on continued improvement of
portfolio quality and management. Moreover, they remain overly reliant on
substantial credit subsidies (estimated at about 3.71 of GDP in 1986), and
continue to allocate their resources largely by non-market criteria. In
the context of its continuing dialogue with the Bank on the General
Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) the Government has set itself the objectives
of limiting credit subsidies to agreed and progressively declining
ceilings, and improving the accounting, control, targeting, and budgeting
of those subsidies.
31.      As the loanable funds of all banks have declined in real terms,
and the costs of borrowing in non-preferred sectors have risen sharply, the
stock exchange and an inter-firm credit market have begun to offer
competing financial services. Other structural steps, like the merger of
financial intermediaries, have been underway for several years, and need to
be continued. Long-term efforts will be needed to deal with the weakened
financial condition of many borrowers, clean up bank portfolios, and expand
the use of lending instruments more suited to an inflationary environment.
D. Development Prospects
32.      Provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its current
stabilization program, accompanied by the major structural adjustment
policies described in the preceding paragraphs and a reasonably favorable
international environment, the fundamentals for future recovery look
promising. First, Mexico has a rich natural and human resource base and
close proximity to the world's largest market. Secondly, the
rationalization of the trade regime of the last two years and the recent
policy announcements about its future direction have created a set of
incentives favoring international competition. Thirdly, the drastic fall
in the terms of trade is beginning to turn around now that world oil,
coffee, and other commodity prices significant for Mexico's exports have
partially recovered. This improvement in the terms of trade should have
significant salutary effects on fiscal, financial, and balance of payments
performance, as well as on growth, investment, and employment. Fourthly,
the over 40Z decline in real wages since 1981 has brought Mexican unit
labor costs to internationally competitive levels, well below those of
Southeast Asia. Therefore, under moderately favorable external and
domestic conditions, Mexico's economic growth could reach 4-5Z a year in
the early 1990s.
33.      Progress in the areas of poverty alleviation and social sector
development has slowed in the wake of the 1982 crisis. As the economy
gradually begins to recover, it is possible to foresee a significant
increase in the emphasis on social sector issues in Mexico. Given the
continued stringency of public budgetary resources, this increased emphasis
will depend heavily upon better cost-recovery and improved efficiency in
the targeting and delivery of social services.
34.      Historically, ecological and natural resource management issues
have ranked low on the list of policy priorities. However, in recent



- 11 -
months, pollution control, soil erosion, reforestation, and other issues in
Mexico's management of its ecology and natural resources have received
increasing Governmental and Bank attention.
E. External Debt and Creditworthiness
35.      Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$14
billion during 1983-86, with the debt service ratio having risen from 452
to 512. At the end of June 1987, the Bank's share in Mexico's long-te*4
debt was 5.1?, and its share in Mexico's long-term debt service was 6.12.
The Bank's exposure in Mexico was 8.11 of its total portfolio. With its
expanded assistance program to Mexico, this latter ratio is expected to
rise somewhat by the end of this decade, but will remain below 102 of the
Bank's total portfolio. In the expectation that sound economic policies
continue, and that thp external environment remains favorable for the
execution of these policies, Mexico is considered creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - TRADE LIBERALIZATION AND RELATED POLICY CHANGES
A. Trade Policy, 1950-1985
36.      From the 1950s until very recently, Mexico consistently used
tariffs, quantitative restrictions, and governmental subsidies to promote
manufactured import substitutes at the expense of agricultural and export
activities. In the 1970s, intervention in favor of capital intensive
import substitutes was intensified.  With the onset of a balance of
payments crisis in 1982, Mexico's isolation from the world economy reached
unprecedented levels, as the coverage of quantitative restrictions (QRs)
was raised to 100X of domestic production and imports. Once it became
evident that the crisis would be of long duration, Mexico was forced to
look for a more permanent solution to its development problems. The
rationalization of the trade regime, aimed at reducing the anti-export bias
of Mexico's development strategy and excessive incentives to capital
intensive import substitutes, is one of the key components of Mexico's
structural adjustment program.
37.      The first step in the rationalization of the trade regime involved
the removal of QRs during 1984 and 1985, covering about half of domestic
production. Then, in early 1986, the Government announced its plans to
request membership in the GATT prior to the start of the Uruguay Round.
Next, there was the announcement of a three-year trade policy program
providing for a gradual shift in the main instruments of protection from
QRs and official reference prices (ORPs) to tariffs and a reduction in the
level and dispersion of tariffs, and the installation of a GATT compatible
antidumping system.
38.      In 1985, the Bank proposed a series of trade policy loans, one for
each year of the trade reform program. Trade Policy Loan I (TPL I1)
supported the actious rdopted in 1986, the proposed TPL II supports the
program being carried out in 1987.



- 12 -
39.       During the discussions on TPL I, it was agreed that progress in
each year of the program would be measured in terms of reductions in the
share of domestic production protected by NTBs which include QRs and ORPs.
ORP. are administratively-determined prices that the Government has used in
place of actual CIF values to calculate import duties. ORPs are often
significantly higher than CIF values. From the standpoint of their impact
on protection, QRs and ORPs are similar. The two protectionionist devices
w*e aggregated as NT88 on a net basis. In early 1986, QR production
coverage was 5S.6Z and net ORPs (ORPs not subject to QRs) 13.8?, for a
total coverage of 69.4? of production. As of August 1987, NTB coverage had
declined to 43.6?, The details of the liberalization process are
summarized in Table 1 and explained in the following paragraphs.
i"LA1: MEXICO: EVOLUTOXN OF IMPORT PRECTION
(value nS)
Year Imorts under           tlon undr   -la Averso Tarilt 11
us          QRe     E         J n             tri on /
41       Q2         Qs       Rang,
1_69  _7      _ -  -    22.0
1975 6               -       -     -    a9.0
1 980        55      -       -     -
1961         59      -       -     -
1982                n        - 
1968        I"    1i         -   1e
194          es      -       -     -
1966 CJune   76    96.7         -  -    20.0  (6-7.      (0.-1.9) (17.4-47.) (0-98.7)
196 (Jul     89    65.0  18.6   69.4   29.4  (9-8.4)   (e.5-2.1) (28.8-09)2 (0-97.8)
1966 (Nov.)  81    49.0   8.8   68.1   19.2 (r-7.4)   (6.9-21.4) (22.041.5) (0-49.0)
1987 (Augus) 25    41.7   1.9   48.6   19.  (9-9.6)  (11.S-21.1) (22.6-81.5) (9-40.9)
1/ The tariff rates are weightd by the production shares of the 198 input-output matrix.
V  QI, 1*0 *nd Q are the quartiles of the frequency distribution.
0 The productieon coverage of QRs and ORPo betwoen January 1984 and June 1985 Is unavalfable,
althouoh coverage m  cleerly 1OOS at the nd of 198.
Sour¢s lThe 1969 overage tariff wam published by eorardo Buono in 'Estructura de la Protecelin en
Mexi¢o', from El Ce  elo Exer  de m  l¢o, edited by the Instituto Mexican* de Comerclo Exterior
:nd the Acedwl de ArbiJijCo  r¢lo Inturnecinal (Mexico: Siglo XXI editores, 1962). Th 1976
averge0 triff wa pubilshed by Manuel Cavazos In his OEvolucHin del Protecciontm o n Mexico' tro El
Cooobld Exlerior de MmicI Id   Al1 other data are droan froe the World Bank publications No.
P4JO-iE (GM Aw1 Vn for    m ethodology In calculating production weight.) and from staff estimates.
Production weights were calculatdl using 198B values.



_ 13 -
B. Trade Reforms in 1986 - The TPL I Program
40.      In 1986, a movement toward rationalizing the trade regime became
even clearer. Four main accomplishments deserve to be highlightedt (i)
reductions in NTB coverage by about 6.3 percentage points of domestic
production; (ii) publication of the Trade Policy Program for 1986-88,
introducing timetables for a gradual reduction of the maximum tariff from
100Z to 3O0, and the elimination of official reference prices by December
1987; (iii) the publication of the antidumping law and its accompanying
regulations; and (iv) the accession of Mexico to GATT. Changes in related
policy areas included a relaxation of domestic price controls and a
refashioning of some industrial programs, notably of domestic content
requirements, so as to emphasize trapaparent tax and tariff incentives over
discretional NTBs and ownership restrictions. TPL I supported these trade
liberalization measures.
Non-Tariff Barriers and Tariffs
41.      NTBs.  Between January and November 1986, the overall production
coverage of NTBs (including QRs and ORPs) declined from 69.4X to 63.12,
while that of QRs alone fell from 55.62 to 49.82 (see Table 1).
Furthermore, automatic import prohibitions were removed, leaving licenses
and quotas as the two remaining kinds of QRs.
42.      Of the 49.82 of domestic production under QRs in the late 1986
(see Annex VI, Table 5), 15.9 percentage points corresponded to crude
petroleum, 4.6 percentage points to petroleum derivatives, 6.7 percentage
points to agricultural products, 9.8 percentage points to agro-industrial
products, and 11.0 percentage points to manufactures, mainly automobiles
and parts, consumer durables, some chemical products, apparel, and
pharmaceuticals. Most of the items freed from QRS were intermediate and
capital goods. On the other hand, automobiles and pharmaceuticals which
were under special industrial programs, were not liberalized. Other items
kept under QRs included products considered essential for national
defense, and items subject to strict public health controls.
43.      ORPs remained in effect for about 960 tariff positions at the end
of the year (see Annex VI, Table 6). Tariff positions subject only to ORPs
(and not QRs) accounted for about 12.9Z of production by December 1986.
The ORP liberalization in 1986 focused on alcoholic beverages. Industries
with a high incidence of ORPs were soft fibers, paper, resins, rubber
products, iron and steel products, other metals, electrical equipment and
apparatus, and automobiles.
44.      Tariffs.  By November 1986, the average unweighted tariff level
was reduced from 25.42 to 22.72 while the dispersion of the tariffs fell
from 18.92 to 14.12. The fall in dispersion was due largely to a reduction
in the range of tariffs in accordance with the pre-announced calendar, from
0-1002 at the beginning of 1986 to 0-45Z by November 1986. The production-
weighted tariff average fell from 29.42, the average after the July 1985
reforms, to 19.52 in November 1986.



- 14 _
Export Controls and Duties
45.      At the end of 1986, export quotas covered about 38? of total
production, or 172 of non-oil production. In addition, exports in about 40
tariff positions were still prohibited. The major category of controlled
exports comprises agricultural commodities, particularly those whose
exports are channelled through parastatals or whose prices are domestically
controlled. The removal of these controls is being discussed as part of a
set of reforms proposed for support by an Agriculture Sector Loan. In
industry, exports of steel and textile product are subject to controls, but
primarily because of international Ovoluntary export restraint agreements
regulating their magnitude.   In addition to phasing out some export
controls, the Government has rationalized export duties, exempting 72
products, and reducing 20 more. By the third quarter of 1987, only 62
tariff positions were subject to export taxes, mainly agricultural
products, such as coffee, which are subject to international quota
restrictions.
Accession to GATT
46.      Mexico's accession to GATT became effective in August 1986,
enabling Mexico to participate as a full GATT member in the opening session
of the Uruguay Round in September 1986. The accession incorporated a
package of reforms, covering tariff reductions, the removal of import
prohibitions, and the relaxation of quotas on 373 tariff positions,
comprising 15.9? of imports (1985 values). Many negotiated tariff rates
are higher than the rates presently in force, leaving the Government some
leeway to increase tariffs without renegotiation or compensation to
Mexico's trading partners. The majority of import licenses proposed for
removal and quotas proposed for liberalization can be phased in over eight
years. Surcharges of up to 502 of the base tariff rate may be imposed
until December 1994. By July 1987, Mexico had already signed the GATTs
codes dealing with antidumping, customs valuation and technical norms. The
Government is currently reviewing the code on subsidies and countervailing
duties with the intention to subscribe to it.
The Antidumping Law and Regulations
47.      The Government has introduced a new law and a set of regulations
on antidumping and countervailing procedures to conform with GATT
provisions, and is reforming the legal, regulatory, and administrative
framework of trade policy. The antidumping law and its accompanying
regulations were published in November 1985 and in late 1986, respectively
(the latter as required under TPL I). These two documents provide the legal
framework for determining cases of alleged dumping and unfair trade
practices. A World Bank mission supervising TPL I reviewed the provisions
in both, and found them broadly consistent with the GATT's provisions.
48.      Actual practice and interpretation of the antidumping law and its
regulations will more likely determine its real impact on protection. The
institutional machinery for determining injury and the corresponding
antidumping duty (cuota compensatoria) is being set up by the Ministry of



- 15 -
Trade and Industrial Development (SECOFI), with the support of technical
assistance financed by TPL I. According to the regulations, temporary
duties can be imposed on an affected bnport five days after a complaint has
been filed and the potential injury determined. Within the next 30 days,
the temporary duty may be revoked. SECOFI than has six months to fully
investigate the complaint and to impose a levy that will remain in effect
until injury is no longer present. One of the technical assistance
components under TPL I focusses on improving the exis:ing trade information
system, so as to enhance the availability of data sources for price and
cost comparisons. The objective of this work is to support GATT consistent
policies by ensuring transparent application of anti-dumping and
countervailing procedures, with an appropriate analysis of gains and injury
from trade.
Related Policy Changes
49.      Price Derexulation.  As of December, 1986 domestic price controls
covered about 47? of domestic production (of which 21X is accounted for by
petroleum products, administered by Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), and 42 by
agricultural products, administered by the Ministry of Agriculture). The
Government has undertaken significant reforms in this area since 1985. It
introduced flexible pricing mechanisms for a large number of products.
Products under price controls were divided into three categories, namely,
*strict controls, 'registered' controls, and price registration. Prices
of 'strictly, controlled commodities are adjusted discretionally, often on
the basis of specific cost studies. Price adjustments for products subject
to *registereds controls are based on a combination of inflation indexing
and cost analysis. In general, there is a greater element of automaticity
built into the "registered" system of price controls, although some
discretionality is still exercised. This category, introduced in October
1985, was intended to start the transition from a regime of strict a priori
controls to one of deregulated prices. Finally, producers of goods subject
to price registration need only notify the Government of price increases
after the fact. About half of production previously under "strict"
controls have been transferred either to "registered, controls or to price
registration. By December 1986, out of 140 products under price controls
administered through SECOFI, 21 were under strict price controls and 44
under registered controls, or about 10.2Z and 6.1? of production,
respectively (see Annex VI, Table 7). About 4.8? of production was subject
to price registration.
50.      The process of relaxing price controls has been generally
consistent with trade liberalization. There are a few products, however,
where domestic price controls have been retained, even after imports were
liberalized. Of the 50.2? of production freed from QRs by December 1986,
only 5.52 was under strict price controls, including some milk items, ham,
basic cookies and basic noodles. Another 1.1? had special domestic
reference prices, while 5.5Z were subject to registered controls. In these
categories were some seafood products, packaging materials for food
products, popular soaps and detergents, iron and steel products, and basic
home appliances. Comparatively few ORPs (less than 3? of domestic
production) were also price controlled. Among items free of export
restraints, goods representing about 82 of production still had price
controls.



- 16 -
51.      Special Industrial Proarams.  Prior to the start of structural
reforms in the trade regime, internal regulatory and protective measu-res
were in effect for automobiles, pharmaceuticals and capital goods as part
of special sector development programs. During the preparation of TPL I,
the Government promised that except for one sector program in electronics,
which was already at an advanced stage of preparation. future sector
programs would incorporate transparent protection (i.e., tariffs rather
than QRs). In 1986, an industrial program for petrochemicals was
announced. One of its key features was the cancellation of PEMEX's
exclusive license to import petrochemicals. Hence, this program was
broadly consistent with the overall direction of trade reform. Programs in
preparation for textiles and footwear are likewise expected to incorporate
transparency. Reform of the special industrial programs is expected to be
part of the Bank's dialogue with Mexico on industrial policy.
C.  The Second Trade Policy (A'P. II) Program
Scope
52.      TPL II supports the trade liberalization measures undertaken
during 1987. The measures on NTh reductions are summarized in Table 2. A
potential TPL III loan would then support liberalization from January to
November 1988, when the current Presidential sexenio ends. During the
preparation of the proposed Loan, it was agreed that TPLs II and III would
coJntinue to focus on progress toward eliminating NTBs and reforming import
tariffs. The reduction of NTBs under TPL II is about 20 percentage points,
which is substantially higher than the 10-15 percentage point reduction
originally expected for 1987 at the time TPL I was being negotiated. The
measures supported by the proposed loan are described in the Government's
Statement of Development Policy (Annex IV) and outlined in the following
paragraphs.
NTB Reductions
53.      Following the measures under TPL I, NTB coverage was reduced to
about 63.1? of production as of November, 1986, the date of second tranche
review. In fact, NTB coverage was reduced by about 1.3 percentage points
more than had been targetted under TPL I.
54.      TPL II supports the NTB liberalization to an end-target of 43.1?
of NTB production coverage (Table 2). This involves removing all ORPs by
end-1987 -- equivalent to 13.3 percentage points -- and reducing QR
coverage by 6.7 percentage points, for a total of 20 percentage points from
the 63.1Z level prevailing in November 1986. Thus, all progress under TPL
II would be measured against that date. At negotiations, the Government
indicated it intended to lower NTB coverage to 42.1?, or 1 percentage point
below the agreed target, by end-1987. Any reduction in coverage below the
target will be counted toward a possible TPL IIT.



- 17 -
TABLE 2: PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTION UNDER NMIs
(or NTS coverage)
(Re          ORUz S- Total NMSe
(1)          (2)             (1+2)
TPL I Target                                                64.4
After First Tranche 11
After Second Tranche       49.8         13.3            63.1
(November 1986)
TPL II Target                  43.1         0               43.1
(December 31, 1987)
Interim Reform
After May 1987 reform      46.4         11.0            57.4
After July 1987 reform    41.7           1.9            43.6
Expected NTB Coverage, by
December 31, 1987             41.7         0               41.7
(see para. 55)
1/ NTB coverage unchanged at 69.42, the pre-TPL I level.
Source: SECOFI, World Bank Staff-Estimates
55.      In fact, by September 1987, the Government had achieved virtually
all the liberalization envisaged under TPL II. NTS production coverage had
fallen to 43.62. When the remaining 1.9 percentage points of ORP coverage
are eliminated, this will reduce NTB production coverage to 41.7S or 1.4
percentage points below the TPL II target.
56.      NTB liberalization in 1987 affected mainly final goods, including
selected agricultural and agroindustrial items, only a few basic ferrous
metals and animal and vegetable oils. This focus on final goods is
expected to continue far beyond the TPL II target with a beneficial impact
on effective protection and resource allocation.  NT  coverage will
probably remain indefinitely for petroleum and derivatives (with a
production weighting of about 15.9X for petroleum, and 4.6? for its
derivatives. However, since Mexico is an oil exporter, NTBs are likely to
have little protective effect. NTBs are also expected to continue for
specizl manufacturing programs covering automobiles, pharmaceuticals, and



- 18 -
computers (representing about 3S of production), at least until these
programs expire in 1989, or beyond; for basic grains and some other
agricultural subsectors (about 3-52 of production); and for products
hazardous to public health and safety (about 1S of production).
Tariff Reform
57.      TPL II also supports the implementation of the of pre-announced
import tariff reductions in 1987. The Government's calendar for tariff
reform, published in 1986, envisaged an end-October 1988 system of only 5
tariff categories (down from 11 in mid-1985), with a target range of 0-30Q
for nominal tariffs, an unweighted tariff average of about 16.5?, and a
tariff dispersion of 9.5?. As part of its phase two commitmen4s, the
Government lowered the maximum tariff from 45? to 402 in February 1987, and
during the succeeding six-month period, reduced duties on some 4,900 tariff
positions. On some items freed from NTBs, tariffs were raised in August
1987, but always staying within the 0-402 range. Over 802 of production
and imports are already covered by the final tariffs as envisaged for
November 1988.
58.      5? Imnort Tax.  Tariff dispersion is increased by various
exemptions (approximately 402 of imports are thought to be exempt from
import duties), and by a uniform general import tax of 52 introduced for
fiscal reasons, into the 1987 revenue program. This tax represents a
consolidation of previous taxes to be assigned to export promotion (which
totalled 3.5?). During 1987, the Government will consider phasing down the
general import tax.
59.      Temporary Lmport Surcharges.  In addition to base tariffs, the
Government has retained the option of applying surcharges of up to 50? of
the base to provide transitional protection to industries whose NTBs are
being eliminated. According to the agreement with GATT, the duration of
these surcharges could be extended up to eight years. However, in early
1987, the Government announced that temporary surcharges would be applied
on a limited basis, requiring an explicit recommendation by the Tariff
Commission. The Government also declared that, in practice, these
surcharges would apply for no longer than five years, except in special
cases. The Government plans to publish explicit policies and rules
governing the use of temporary surcharges by December 31, 1987.
60.      Rule 8 (Regla Octava) grants industries included in special
industrial programs (see para. 51 above) the right to import inputs at a
preferential ad valorem tariff rate of 102. By increasing the spread
between tariffs on inputs and tariffs on outputs, this mechanism raises
effective protection for industries producing for the domestic markets. The
rule is intended to offset part of the firms' losses incurred in meeting
domestic content requirements. Rule 8 will need to be reformed along with
the fiscal incentives, domestic content requirements, and credit
preferences built into the special programs (proaramas de ram&). These
distortions are not addressed in this proposed loan, but are expected to be
included in the restructuring programs covering specific sub-sectors
supported by a the proposed Industrial Restructuring Loan.



- 19 -
Related Policy Issues
61.      In addition to trade reform, during preparation of TPL II, the
Government discussed with the Bank its objectives for reform in three
related areas: (i) deregulation of domestic prices; (ii) improvements in
transportation policy and procedures; and (iii) public procurement policy.
62.      Price Deregulation.  The Government recognizes that domestic price
intervention must be reduced to ensure the economy respon4s positively to
the more competitive environment created by trade liberalization. Indoed,
over the past two years, domestic price controls have been eased somewhat
(see paras. 49 and 50 above). Further easing is planned, but the
Government wants decontrol to be gradual so as to avoid raising
inflationary expectations even faster than at present. During negotiations
the Government has indicated it intended to continue its efforts to
eliminate the remaining price controls (excepting critical items of mass
consumption) in parallel with trade liberalization, barring unforeseen
social or political developments. Other Bank operations, such as the
proposed Agricultural Sector Loan, Steel Sector Loan, Fertilizer Sector
Adjustment Loan, and the Industrial Restructuring Project, will address the
pricing issue in their areas of concentration.
63.      Improvements in Transportation Policy.  Transportation
infrastructure, policies and procedures are being upgraded to meet the new
demands of a more competitive, outward-oriented economy. For example,
recently, customs procedures for container inspection previously identified
as a bottleneck for external trade, were streamlined. A Bank-supported
Ports Project supports measures to increase the operating efficiency of
Mexico's four major ports. The physical and financial restructuring of
Mexico's railroads underway since 1985, is likewise backed by a Bank loan.
As part of TPL I technical assistance, the Banco de Mexico is studying user
needs, and identifying improvements in transportation policy and procedures
which would facilitate trade. Ultimately, this study may provide the
policy elements for a proposed Transportation Sector Loan.
64.      Public Procurement Policy.  While the Government naturally secAks
to purchase goods and services on a competitive and efficient basis, lik?!
governments elsewhere, it also seeks to help local contractors.  In 198e, a
new law on public procurement of equipment considerably simplified the
legal framework. However, operating regulations are still being defined.
The new law also allows more time for the various stages of the bidding
process, ensures that foreign contractors will be paid in foreign currency,
and makes the conditions attached to bid bonds less onerous than before.
During negotiations on the proposed loan, the Mexican delegation informed
the Bank that no later than December 31, 1987, the Government would submit
to the Bank detailed information about policies and practices now governing
Mexican public sector procurement.
D. Social Impact of Trade Liberalization
65.      Income distribution and employment generation were adversely
affected by import-substituting industrialization. Its effects were



- 20 -
particularly pronounced in agriculture, where it slowed the absorption of
labor, led to declining real income and employment in rural areas, and
increased rural out-migration. By correcting the previous bias against
export activities, the program of trade liberalization will tend to labor
intensive activities where Mexico's competitive advantage is strongest,
thereby increasing the demand for labor. Studies have shown that,. on
average, export activities are 35-40Z more labor-intensive than industries
serving mainly domestic markets.
66.      Steady, determined execution of the growth-oriented adjustment
program will be the most important contribution the Government can make to
improve the well-being of the poor. In particular, if inflation can be
brought down significantly, the poor will likely benefit the most, since of
all income classes, they are least able to hedge against the rising cost of
living. Although by no means a panacea, trade liberalization can help
reduce inflationary pressures by boosting competition and the supply of
goods. Of course, the continued progress toward reducing the fiscal
deficit will reinforce the anti-inflationary impact of reducing import
protection.
67.      Nevertheless, the transitional costs of adjustments are real and
significant. While reliable, up-to-date income distribution statistics are
not available, unfavorable trends in real wages and employment growth
suggest there has been some worsening of the position of salaried groups.
Between 1980 and 1986, real per capital GDP declined by about 1OZ, and real
per capita consumption by 15Z. The share of wages in national income
declined by about 20 percentage points during this period. And unskilled
workers have experienced sharper increases in underemployment than have
skilled workers. Urban wage earners were among the hardest hit.
68.      It is thus, heartening to observe signs that the average labor
intensiveness of output may be rising, as evidenced by the rapidly growing
number of new, labor-intensive investments in electronics, transportation,
and manufacturing assembly of maguiladora operations. On the other hand,
public sector social spending has declined as a proportion of GDP since
1982, and the most redistributive expenditures within the education and
health sectors have declined more in real terms than other components.
Hence, there is an urgent need to improve the efficiency of social
programs, for example, by phasing in targetted subsidies for food, housing,
utilities, and fuels, shifting educational expenditures to pre-primary and
primary education, and emphasizing lower-cost health care.
69.      The Bank is assisting the Government in addressing some of these
issues. The policy dialogue is now giving much greater weight to a
discussion at cost-effective schemes for alleviating the costs of
adjustment for the poor. Several operations in the lending program for
1987-88 support this thrust. For instance, in agriculture, the Government
recently introduced a system of food stamps to mitigate the impact on the
disadvantaged of eliminating most global food subsidies. The proposed
Agriculture Sector Loan would support the introduction of a targetted
subsidy program to supplement the caloric intake of the urban poor. In the
housing sector, the Bank's proposed Housing Finance Project is oriented



- 21 -
toward meeting the needs of lower income groups. Similarly, in the urban
water supply and sanitation sectors, Bank-supported projects emphasize
expanding service to lower-income beneficiaries. The recently approved
Manpower Training Project supports the expansion and improvement of
retraining programs for unemployed semi-skilled workers, employment
services, and in-service training. By reducing frictional unemployment and
increasing productivity, lower income groups would be helped.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History
70.      Direct Bank support to the Government's objective of gradually
opening the Mexican economy began with the First Export Development Project
(EDP 1, Ln. 2331-ME) in 1983. Through this operation, the Bank provided
financing and technical assistance for export promotion in the context of a
liberalized import regime for exporters. Subsequently, the TPL I loan,
approved in July, 1986, was conceived as the first 3i a series of trade
adjustment loans to Mexico. Because of the time needed for firms to adjust
to the new incentives, the phasing and continuity of the reform process is
essential and requires the support of the Bank through a series of loans
between 1986 and 1988. TPL II is designed to provide such support for the
phase of the reform implemented in calendar 1987 and is expected to be
followed by TPL III in 1988. As trade liberalization progresses, the
process is also facilitated by complementary reforms in other areas.
Hence, TPL II is being processed in parallel with other operations
supporting structural change. The loan was appraised in March/April 1987.
Initial negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in June, 1987.
Negotiations concluded on September 28, 1987. The Mexican delegation was
led by Mr. Penaloza of BNCE, the National Foreign Trade Bank.
Supplementary loan data are provided in Annex III.
B. Loan Obiectives and the Trade Liberalization Program
71.      TPL II supports the following specific policy measures for the
year 1987. A major part of these objectives has been already achieved.
(i) NTBss By December, 1987, the production coverage of NTBs,
composed of QRs and ORPs, will be reduced by at least 20
percentage points, vis a vis the level existing in November,
1986. This includes removing all ORPs. To be able to fully
meet this commitment by end-1987, the Mexican Government
needs only to remove the remaining ORPs.
(ii) Tariffs: The maximum tariff will be further reduced, from
40X in early 1987 to 35Z by December 1987 (see Tariff
Calendar below). The number of rates will also go down to 7.



- 22 -
(iii) 5? import tax: The loan supports the phasing down of this
general import tax by the end of 1987.
(iv)  Temporary import surcharaes:  As part of the package of
policies discussed with the GATT, the Government may impose
temporary import surcharges of up to 50? of the base taritf
rate. To increase transparency in the system of surcharges,
specific guidelines on their imposition will be published by
December 31, 1987.
72.      The Government also intends to further pursue reforms consistent
with trade liberalization. It will continue the deregulation of domestic
price controls except for critical mass consumption items. It will also
submit to the Bank detailed information on the status of government's
public procurement policy.
73.      Table 4 summarizes the policy measures under TPL II, the
achievements in these policy areas in 1986 and the planned targets for
1988. The tariff levels planned for 1988 are based on the calendar of
tariff reductions, while the 1988 NTB target is based on the production
coverage of a set of products which the Government indicates it intends to
keep protected through QRs by the end of 1988 (See para. 56). Furthermore,
Table 4 also summarizes briefly complementary policy measures that would be
supported by other proposed Bank operations.
TABLE 3: TARIFF REDUCTION PROGRAM. 1986-88
SITUATION ON 4117186               SITUATION AT:
RATE  OF      NUMBER                  RATE OF TARIFFS (X)               NUMBER
TARIFFS (X)    OF ITEMS  4130186    02128187   12131187   10/31/88  OF ITEMS
0         251           0          0          0           0          279
5         325           0          0          0           0
10        10         10          10
10       3,4S18         10         10         10          10        3,549
20          53           17.5      15         12.5        10
25       1,372          22.5       20         20          20        1,361
30          27          27.5       25         22.5        20
40       1,837          37         33         29         25         1,876
50       1,040          45         40         35          30        1,058
TOTAL    8,123                                                      8,123
Sourcet SECOFI



_.                         TRACE PMLICY *WmF  WTRIX
POL.I  SJtl tIE                AI@)ST AS OF W6                PiRliR Aerie  mUOE  11t tt                I8LS PM  1918                 (SuWITA*  IaSis TO GE
SiFPRTrD tn ofl  OPERAIrlSn
1. Proesive reduct i,n of   I tlR coerg reduced to about            (a) Reductlen of d11 ceverag      W9 coe"  to he reducetd t          (a) Uwal Of N   S a     icUitpfsl
os.t. to lewr ovel             63.1% of donetic  rouctlon,           by a further 20  olats of      2-50% of d rtlc  Productton.           roducts undr the ASi.
preetbn, Increase              aparislng 49.% Cli. arid              dosattc productlon                                               tb) Pashavel of 111B In spefic
treonoy of trade                 11 t3  S.                           through:                                                              rwtctwl  MaO
rel_. end llltt                                                     i)  etl-luntion of el I                                              aro-lndustries mboectors
discertlaelty.                                                            ORWs by lV!31/87;                                               coeed bi t+e lndustriet
(l ) Further rnvl of                                                 0eetructurfoo Loan.
2. Tariff refom to                (a) Mm. tarItf rate Ioerd          (s) Continued reduction of        (a) aec. tariff to be reduced     (a) Ralsia  level of effetinv
retiotllge levels of               to 43%.                          +triff lewels. dispeson,           to 30%.                            prutect ia for ovirultursi
effective prctotln.ead                                              and  _    r of rat                                                   producrts. unite r  inf
redue disaprs Ion.                                                    eordin  to nnonead                                                  d tic Dries coatrois. eport
caloendr. 4j/l                                                      .otrols  nd dutlis under APL.
'bl Level tunegigtted) of         lb) Agreent on t                  (b) Avero. terif to be             lb) Rove of distortions of
taiffs redued to 22.7%            pesibilitr of shilnig oMt          lowered to at I-pet               scial orgrems (eg. Rul. 8)
end distperon to 14.1%            5S of gen erl imort tax.          16.5% and dIsoerIon to            In sub-seco   restructured
9.5%, with onlr 5 rat  .          untdr the induatrliI
te) Publication of guldelines                                           RstructuorIt Low, end other
for spolying t*eorar                                                restructurlog overations.
lImort I aurcthrg.
3. Ocaslstoncy of macrt?          neiateined Consistent maro-        entlffteanc  of cealstent
econlc fr_eork wIth           aomoIc Dolicles, wIth             secoeconaic  aolcls.gj/j
trade reotoa.                  swcial nspl   on acm hnee
ret. policy.
4. Col lateral Arent
4.) ODettc Price Controls    introdt1on of mrer  ltlbble         Int,lenti  to ontin   efforts
pricing rutes for 119 (out of     to elwlinett destli prIce
140) cetrolled Itas.              controls exceet on connod1t+1e
of eas conupton.
(b) Treffortetlon FbiIcy      lmeworovts In castaes                                                                                   (a) Anawlvsi of further
lspc ioa eroodures                                                                                        trade-relatod lmwormnts, to
be supported under o
Transportatitb Sector Leon.
tc) PublIc Pecur_mnt                                             SebaissIon to the Seeni by the
Maicon  torm.nt of detled
Information   o   policies and
bractIes" on ttbttcon public
sector procuremtet.
4  First tranahe re tere
condltlon.
3 Seond tran. reloeose
conadtIon.



- 24 -
C. The Borrower
74.      The borrower, as for TPL I, would be BNCE.  BNCE has acquired
considerable experience in administering Bank projects such as the First
and Second Export Development Projects (Lns. 2331-ME and 2377-ME), in
addition to its role in TPL I. BNCE is, by charter, a key institution in
foreign trade, and contributes to policy formulation in this area, as a
facilitator in the Bank-Government dialogue, and in designing specific
improvements in the framework for export promotion.
D. Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing
75.      The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches, the first
one of US$300 and the second of US$200 million. The first tranche would
become available upon effectiveness, and the second upon fulfillment of
specific conditions for tranche release. The closing date of the proposed
loan is June 30, 1988.
76.      The loan proceeds would be used to reimburse 10O  of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible imports, the latter defined broadly as imports in
categories freed from NTBs on or after July 25, 1985 (as under TPL I).
Ineligible imports include goods subject to ORPs or QRs of any kind, goods
financed from other official multilateral or bilateral sources, luxury
goods, and goods intended for military or paramilitary use. Loan proceeds
may be used for retroactive financing of import expenditures incurred after
March 31, 1987, up to a ceiling of US$100 million.
77.      BNCE will be responsible for maintaining loan accounts and for the
preparation and submission of withdrawal applications. Disbursements from
the proposed loan would be made on the basis of a summary from the Banco de
Mexico detailing individual import transactions in each relevant period,
together with a certification of payments of the amounts involved, and of
their eligibility under the loan. Applications for withdrawals will be
consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million.
78.     Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Contracts under US$5 million each would be awarded on the basis
of the normal procurement practices of the purchaser. Contracts for other
goods and services, estimated to cost US$5 million or more each, will be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
79.      Audits of the supporting documentation for the statements of
expenditure used for disbursements will be carried out annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
E.   Effectiveness and Tranche Release
80.      The proposed loan would be declared effective on the Bank's having
been furnished with evidence satisfactory to it that: (l) the Government's



- 25 -
macropolicy framework is consistent with the objectives of trade
liberalization supported by the proposed loan and set forth in the
Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex IV)t and (ii)
continued implementation of the program of tariff reform as announced in
the Government's Statement of Foreign Trade Policy of June 19, 1986, in
accordance with the calendar presented in Table 3.
81.      The release of the second tranche is expected to take place by
March, 1988 after an exchange of views with the government. The second
tranche release conditions ares (i) progress in the implementation of the
calendar for tariff reform as announced in the Trade Policy Program, (ii)
reduction no later than December 31, 1987 of the coverage of NTBs by 20
percentage points of total production, from the coverage existing in
November 30, 1986 and (iii) consistency of the macroeconomic policy
framework with the trade policy propram.
F. Monitoring and Reporting
82.      The trade policy reform program and the proposed loan will require
monitoring of the adequacy and consistency of the macroeconomic framework
and of implementation of specific actions vader the program detailed in the
Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex IV). The Bank will
monitor these areas through regular supervision and exchange of views with
the borrower and the Government. These discussions will cover both policy
and NTB targets, the reduction of tariff dispersion, the growth of non-oil
exports, and the maintenance of an adequate real exchange rate. The Bank
will coordinate closely with the IMF on monitoring of key economic policies
and indicators. Monitoring of the real exchange rate and inflation will in
particular assist in assessing the consistency of the macroeconomic policy
framework. In addition, BNCE will prepare and submit quarterly to the Bank
a report on progress and trends in foreign trade and trade policy,
including a quarterly assessment of effective protection levels.
G. Benefits and Risks
83.      Benefits.  Trade policy reform remains at the core of Mexico's
adjustment program. The reform is currently making a major contribution to
the recovery of sustained growth and Mexico's creditworthiness. Moreover,
the program is reorienting the economy away from inefficient import
substitution towards greater international competitiveness in non-oil
exports and production for the domestic mari.et. Trade liberalization is
also expected to help reduce inflationary pressures in the economy by
stimulating greater efficiency and strengthening external confidence in
policy management. Furthermore, the TPL program provides a basis on which
the Government can mobilize needed financing from commercial sourcest TPL
It is a trigger for drawdown on the financing package signed in March 1987.
The parallel cofinancing therefore entails direct Bank support to Mexico
and Bank monitoring of the proposed trade liberalization program. Through
assisting in the economic restructuring, the proposed loan and the TPL
series will help facilitate a return to voluntary commercial lending over
the longer term.



- 26 -
84.      Risks:  The major risks are: (i) possible inconsistency between
the macroeconomic policy framework and continued structural change; (ii)
pressure to reverse the liberalization as dislocations in the import
competing sectors become more severe; and (iii) adverse external
developments. There are, however, significant elements in the Government's
program and in the design of the proposed loan which reduce-these risks.
85.      A major risk of the program would be that the macroeconomic policy
framework might not remain consistent with trade liberalization. For
example, any sharp appreciation of the real exchange rate would potentially
derail the current strong export drive and trigger balance of payments
difficulties. Were this to occur, a reversal of the liberalization of
imports might occur. A failure to maintain fiscal discipline in an
election year would pose additional difficulties, exacerbating inflation
and undermining the private sector confidence crucial to successful trade
adjustment.
86.      A second risk would be that, as the trade adjustment process
deepens, dislocations in inefficient import competing sectors will be
inevitable. The gradual approach to trade liberalization followed by
Mexico with the help of complementary actions facilitating resource
reallocation reduce this risk. However, if factors of production cannot be
smoothly transferred to expanding efficient sectors, then mounting domestic
pressures against liberalization can be expected. In part, this transfer
of resources will be helped by the introduction of complementary reforms in
areas such as parastatal management and agricultural and industrial reform.
The Government supported by the Bank is currently formulating industrial
restructuring schemes for specific industries that would help firms
adjusting to the new set of incentives. At present protests against
liberalization do not appear to represent a serious threat to the trade
reforms. Moreover, the performance of non-oil exports and the gradual
economic recovery are reinforcing the resolve to continue with present
reforms.
87.      These domestic risks are reduced by the Government's commitment
to: (i) maintaining a real exchange rate consistent with its balance of
payments objectives; (ii) ensuring budgetary discipline and the control of
inflation; and (iii) continuing the trade policy reform program. The
design of the proposed loan is also intended to ensure that the
macroeconomic policies are compatible with the trade reform. Careful
monitoring of the real exchange rate, in particular, and the overall
macropolicy framework, in coordination with the IMF, will also help reduce
this risk by providing the basis for corrective action.
88.      A third risk would be adverse external developments which could
include possible fluctuations in oil prices and interest rates and dangers
of increased protectionism in Mexico's export markets. Current
expectations are for no fundamental deterioration of oil prices and
interest rates in the TPL II period. The high level of foreign reserves
and the recent conclusion of Mexico's external financing package,
comprising both major rescheduling of existing debt, and new money
commitments, increase the assurance of adequate financing for



- 27 -
implementation of the economic recovery program so long as policy
management is effective. Improved balance of payments performance could
also reduce, to an extent the magnitude of external financing needed in
later years. Mexico's accession to GATT and recent bilateral trade
agreements enable it to address possible protectionist moves from a better
position.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN MEXICO
A. Bank Operations
89.      As of June 30, 1987, Mexico had received 103 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$9.8 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 70 loans totalling US$4.7 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$7.60 billion, of which US$2.84 billion had not yet been disbursed.
Some 35Z of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development,
201 for industry, 162 for transportation, 8S for power, and 5? for policy-
based lending; the remaining 16? has been for water supply, tourism, urban
development, and vocational training.
90.      Of the US$9.8 billion total lending, about US$5.35 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related
appraisal of investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These
credit,programs have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small-
and medium-scale industrial, mining and tourism enterprises.
91.      Adequately funded and properly monitored, Bank-assisted projects
had been implemented satisfactorily until mid-1982. Disbursements, as a
result, rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448 million in FY82.
However, the 1982 financial crisis caused delays in the provision of
counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements declined to US$389 million
in FY83. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in early 1983 to
help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding constraints in
development projects. A total of 18 Bank-financed projects (including the
US$350 million first Export Development Loan approved in mid-1983) received
support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, and similar
features maintained thereafter, disbursements improved, reaching US$528.87
mlllion in PY84, and increasing further to US$787.93 million, in FY85.
But, disbursements dropped by about 18Z to US$656.7 million in FY86. This
decline is attributed mainly to the acute shortage of counterpart peso
funding, lack of credit demand, and the delays in declaring some projects
effective. However, disbursements picked up again increasing in FY87 by
about 53?, to US$1.22 billion. This increase can largely be attributed to
the fast disbursement of the Trade Policy Loan (TPL I) which became
effective in November 1986.



-28 -
B. IY O h"nertions
92.      As of June 30, 1987, INC had made investment commitments in 30
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$776.7 million, of which US$645.9
million had been sold, repaid, or cancelled. IFC has been working together
with the Bank to: (i) identify investment opportunities which would best
suit the needs of the private sector in the current phase of Mexico's
growth-oriented adjustment program, and (ii) assist the Government in
reviewing the requirements of the country's capital markets, both through
economic sector work and specific proposals for venture capital operations.
The IFC has carried out three operations in the motor vehicle and cotton
seed business. The provision of foreign exchange and export promotion have
been the principal objectives of these operations.
C. Bank Strategy
93.      The Rank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis
were to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution
of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that,
directly or indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment;
(c) help reduce Mexico's urbanlregional imbalances; and (d) help free
bottlenecks which prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important
objectives of Bank assistance to Mexico. However, following the 1982
economic crisis and a reassessment of the Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank
Management coacluded that: (a) increased Bank lending, critical to
Mexico's recovery, must be linked to central policy reforms; and (b) the
lank should play a central role in assisting Mexico's return to voluntary
lending by commercial banks. In its new role, the Bank has intensified and
broadened its economic and sector work. Specific policy reforms that are
being pursued through a dialogue with the Mexican Government cover priority
macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberalization,
rationalization of preferential credit systems, improvement in public
sector pricing and investment, and subsidy reduction. Traditional lending
incorporating project or sector-specific policy issues is being conducted
in parallel with policy dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro policy issues.
94.      As a result of these initiatives, the Bank is contributing to
Mexico's external financing needs in 1986-87 in a very substantial way
through continued project lending and quick-disbursing operations in
support of policy reforms and structural adjustment in key sectors. The
Bank's cammitments in 1987 could approach US$2 billion, assisting
Government initiatives in trade, agriculture, industry, transport, and
housing finamce. To lend broader support to Mexico's adjustment process,
the Bank has, with the Board's authorization, put in place guarantees for
the comiercial banks' cofinancing and growth contingency facilities up to a
total of US$750 million.
95.      Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and
the sector's crucial importance for one-third of the nation's population
living in rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for
its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims ats



- 29 -
(a) a more efficient and rational use of natural resources to increase
production; (b) productivity improvements of cultivated lands, with
emphasis on the productivity of small farmers; and (c) promotion of
employment-generating investments in rural areas. To support these goals,
infrastructure investments in Bank-assisted projects have been complemented
with support services, such as extension, marketing programs, and credit.
The Bank has made 16 loans in FYs80-87 totalling US$2,638.93 million, for
irrigation, rural and agricultural investment projects, and agro-industrial
and livestock credit programs. Projects for irrigation rehabilitation,
forestry, and agro-industries, are in various stages of preparation.
Special emphasis has been placed in recent -ears on the development of
rainfed areas. A broad sector adjustment operation is also in an advanced
stage of processing, which would help correct the incentive regime in
agriculture and reduce subsidies.
96.      Bank lending for industry between FYs80-87 amounted to US$1,572.25
million, covering areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining,
capital goods industries development, industrial technology development,
and export development. After the 1982 crisis, a US$350 million loan was
approved to assist in Mexico's non-oil export sector. The loan contributed
to an intensive and continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and Mexican
authorities regardings (a) export promotion and trade liberalization
policies; (b) administrative and institutional aspect of export promotion;
and (c) financial support for non-oil exports. Based on the lessons of
experience under that sector adjustment operation and broad economic sector
work, a new comprehensive assistance strategy has been formulated to guide
the Bank's lending work for industry. This strategy supportss (a) trade
policy reform to move towards greater uniformity of incentives and greater
international competitiveness; (b) complementary financial sector policies
to reverse the prolonged contraction experienced by Mexico's financial
system, including its securities market; and (c) measures and programs
required to encourage adequate supply responses, particularly in export
promotion and industrial restructuring.
97.      Working towards the objectives of its strategy, the Bank in FY87
processed a US$500.0 million Trade Policy loan (TPL I), which was
complemented by a US$250.0 million Second Export Development operation.
TPL I is almost completely disbursed, except for the technical assistance
component of US$110. million. Terms of Reference for the latter component
are currently being prepared. To strengthen industry's supply response to
policy reform and structural change, the Bank also made a US$150.0 million
Industrial Recovery loan, a US$48.0 million Industrial Technology
Development loan and a US$185.0 million Fourth Small and Medium Industry
loan. These would help strengthen the financial position and expand the
production of industrial enterprises, and support technology development at
the enterprise level. Projects in industrial restructuring, including the
fertilizer, steel, automotive parts, textile, and agroindustry sectors are
under preparation, and would help achieve the strategy objectives over the
medium term.
98.      Bank lending for transport has focussed on regional development,
strengthening of institutions, and rationalization of public investment



- 30 -
outlays and pricing policies. Between FYf80-87, six loans amounting to
US$752.84 million were approved, including two in each of the following
three subsectors: highway. railways, and ports. Additional projects to
support similar goals in the urban sector were undertaken. During FYs80-
87, ten urban loans were approved, totalling US$1,263.50 million, in the
fields of water supply and sewerage and urban development, including a
first US$125.0 million Urban Transport Project which was approved on May
28, 1987. In response to Mexico's 1985 earthquake emergency, the Bank
processed a US$400.0 million Earthquake Rehabilitation Project, which the
Fxecutive Directors approved on March 25, 1986.  A federal highway
L.intenance project was approved by the Executive Directors in October
1987. Additional projects are under consideration in the transport and
urban sectors, including urban transport, which would aim at strengthening
the various institutions in the areas of planning, management, and finance.
99.      The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico
through various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and
institutional reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at
courses/seminars on water supply and sanitation sector management,
transport policy, agricultural policy, industrial development and finance,
and macro policy analysis.
100.     The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.54 billion as of June 30, 1987. Over 50Z of the total has
gone to agitcultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism
infrastructure, education, municipal development, and preinvestment. The
IDB and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects.
Each has made loans for the national integrated rural development program
(PIDER), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale
industries development, and hotel development projects. The IDB is also
providing a program of assistance for earthquake rehabilitation and
reconstruction, and two loans in the health sector, totalling US$41.3
million, were approved on June 27, 1986. A loan of US$100.0 million was
provided for a tourism hotel in the private sector in December 1986. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan
of US$22.0 million for a rural development project in the State of Oaxaca,
which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as
cooperating institution for administering the loan.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP
101.      Since 1982, the IMF has supported Mexico through: (i) an EFF
negotiated in late 1982 for a total of SDRs 3.6 billion, covering the three
years through December 1985; because of non-compliance with some of the
performance criteria for the second and third quarters of 1985, this facility
became inoperative, with about SDRs 908 million undrawn; (ii) a special
emergency assistance drawing, for SDRs 291 million, in support of Mexico'e



- 31 -
earthquake reconstruction needs, approved in early 1986; (iii) a stand-by of
SDRs 1.4 billion, approved in November in 1986, covering up to April 1988, with
the possibility of increase to up to SDRs 2 billion depending on oil price
developments.
102.      Performance under the stand-by program was satisfactory in 1986 and
the first quarter of 1987. Details of the performance on the stabilization
program in 1986 and the macroeconomic framework for 1987 are presented in Part I
above. Coordination between the two institutions has and will continue to be
close on monitoring of the macroeconomic program and the harmonization of
lending programs.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
103.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Attachments                                              Barber B. Conable
October 21, 1987                                         President
Washington, D.C.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
FACT T11  3M  anICewtTlh  Ft;"CI6 FACIaC
Maturity/
A. S Iti, Unk
ta) tleSt :y9dcettos                    .01/    12/5   LS1t * 13/16
esA la" Cstlaactsg 3/                 1.0      -S/1  13/16
2.Ceaasual      VselUgteao 3/
(s) laveatmag Suppeit C.st1ngeuo"     1.2        8/4   Lt501 t  13/16
(O) Cr@bt Cettla"ane  Vf              0.3       12/7  t1.30k   13/16
3. Mitigatlefsa   a Pn EMet T      of KElet5ap Debt
(C) Pre-1983 Debt                               2Q17  1.530 * 13/l
CPrevl.usly Iotearstaz,e)        40          07 LN          31
(b) Debt Ceatracted to 1983/04        8.53             11301   13s1o
(tSo be rstr ured on
4. P   Ite Db  (ICOXCa)                  9.0   tC*i-n  -table to the
restNUt"1t38 Of puabUoe
debt).
(The 01181 Leve" go
S. larerbeak Ctedls                      g.luee  5,2   be mLaelaej omtl
J1.  30. 190)
Stead-p ?Ill:y (16 isttw)         511 1.4 (sktt Uto.? be)
Oil Wtrie Cositaoga       .        S3 0.6 (ab      0   hi)
2. !al s                                2.3
3. t                                     o.
4.                                        1.0
,.  rs  clu Z /                         1.J      10/5
T ota ell we mertOOICeto 1sbe u   available to Rodice u
the ie.he  Ciueudiag Pterl(at Clubeeeetaltaee 46mutiagaseles)
tsr 19M M6  aMUM  to sams$ US16.2 billis.
.1/ Ts be tmest by amen sa  by Nealesla 1907 asa Mutt af lone
s*r_     a si  dam   d shuft frm him  to 1.30, 3.  gesd as Port
df tdo awwal patae  (e"titied et _eke  15300 esltua).
3/ 34     eeflmat  wish  eld "ea traepe  mtew  leao. A
800Satedeesab   VW"S Dauk poem"te  for us$50 sUite  io betas.
In a Ita  oat i            Stlqesay preped by D_.
ante  31sm3 stutes Is %wiSt Dek geauwms.
Y   leela  mg Pnt wale (mm) co X    swid sa* guaat  eet Abst
=1$'0 euite (tea  VeiU  as =$?so elIlt).
9 M US20   "          is  eIh3aIIwit ts     wk  so V eEDP  TI Project US$250
lue s   t     st presa emm 1 0   Ites fr tet  retifs  etreleu
Prejeas.
y  D_ho bept of lo   t as tpwe               feIIl  de  tb-ue   the tint
q_se  a  10sd 603 of sg  ise*et pXau  tee g    t_ dhre
tn a" a' Iw. tateiet em ahe das  Mt be -fit" btlteely
em   wee  of s ppee _ soe nrhas  aten.'



-33 -
Pd-NW Iqatims Wig.)  .3                                                                                                                 Ngp 2 of'4
toS Pr CW1t  W  to oSf   to                                                                              St Flseea        111HfliP
A. amre of bmIn          c himtl                         L ~  NO Ws (t Wg i
(fin  earu  vrice data)                                  (fine cmtae  price detW
M 594    197      INS      395     lie5    INSS            193-73  Tin3-*   1955        iNS      595
bese Sosutic Prowuc c.p.          00.    t00.0   I00.    t00.0   aoo0-  zM.-o                    *.        i       ...g             -.
kl1uilfrwtonu                   4.3      5.8      ,I       *.   *.   ..               ..
Aricoltwo   ~          14.4    I1.A       M.      1.4    10                           3.      3.4      2.3       . i.
taut"                31.1,  I32.      U1.S     3.6      Si                         6I       7.0      0.3      4.9     -445
tel 801c8 Ihefetf ntq)         23.0,  23.       23.0    25.9        ..       .                .3      0.      -.9
service                        54.4    54.      54.4    SkI5   54.5          ..                .6     42       0.5      I.5      -3.
hso.'ce3elce                      -1.0    -1.1    -0.9       6.1      5.2      3.8                .       .         .       .
fayertt of Ws                   9.3      6.4    32.4    37.7    18.5    14.9                 4.2      6.       5.6    -3.0        4.5
5oarts of an                   50.3      9.5    13.5      9.7    30.9    13.2                8.9      9I.7    14.      U.1    _13.0
Tota fapeoitwe                   101.0   301.1   100.9    91.9    94.1          ..                .9     LI1   -2.2        4.8      48.
Total CI.5Wt1                  19.2    19.7    72.1    70.3    73.6          .                 .5     5.9      0.3      2.7      42.9
Private C.,Avtl.            12.2    70.5    Ak.0    10.  684.1            ..               .2      5.4    -0.4       3.0     -5.2
level lowerMet               7.0      9.2    10.#      9.5      9.5                       L?6.     7.3      3.3      1.3      -9.4
grame housic lavastmet         21.7    21.4    26.1    21.4    21.4                          LS3.     7.3    -9.0    12.0    -10.4
FiletS Iswetmt              11.4    19.3    24.2    11.0         .         .95                     7.2   -10.4
am" ein ltctk                4.2      2.1     4.0      3.W        .       .                 .       .
fass Snotc Sevi                   20.1    20.3    27.2    29.?    24.7        235               6.5      .6.    -3.4       0.8    -57.2
Set Factor 26cm                -0.8    -3.3    -3.2    -5.3    -4.7    -4.5                    .       ..       .
Set Serre  Treasfon              ..      0.1      0.I     0.2      0.4      0.4                .        .       .
krm  Istime  Ssve                   .      19.2    24.1    24.1    22.5    24.4                 17.4     7.6    -5.4       7.3   '_2S.0
5. .1111., of LWII                1945    197      1950    1934    lip        lIel
IdtCOaetaotIlopricms)             -         -        -
areoss    U DomesticPht        1040     273     4276    4564    482        4451              4.9      6.2      0.3      2.6      -3.3
Capaity to tapt                 I30      225     537      541      504      35               6.7    52.3    -2.3    -9.8    -29.5
Torn of Trade djostaso         -63      -107       0    -2W       -268    -41..                        .
Gros Imetic teem               1535    2651    4274    4287    4380    393                   4.9      6.5    -0.8       2.       -6.7
boss ReilPod auct              1506    273    4131    4241    44il    4223                   7.3        8      0.4      4.2      -4.3
mrm  Retiona  locs             1439    2814    4133    4004    4151    3760                  7.9      4.3    -1i.2      3.7      -9.4
--Itma 500)-------                           -la flatdfi Riate (2 P.ad.)              -
C. Price tndIce                   398     1962    393       1900    1965      19p           194573  I97-60  59*44         198     lYlip
Canne  Prices (If  44)           100.0   203.3   410.2   479.0  t071.2  t994.9                  4.3    20.3    41.2    57.6        34.2
Ikl"sal Price, (IFS 633         300.0   194.2   402.7   844.0  1053.4  1973.2                  4.0    22.3    81.5    53.6        37.J
tar  it GOP Defltor              100.0   205.1t   394.4   631.3   964.3  1747.4                 5.5    2135    82.2    54.2        M7S
taplicit Eapa.ltoree Dflator    100.0   201.7   397,    683.6  1029.0          .                5.7    21.2    83.9    58.2
0. Other Incatos                        1957317-80,                        1980-I
bath Rates 42 g.e.): ~ ~     ~      ~       --                - -           ltn
PapulatIm                     3~~      ~       ~~~.3  3.0        2.8          gate as the tSamuel Indicators tiblia
Liar ForCe                                .....                                         sud felio the defialtimn ai
boss ktloaal icu  p.c.                   4.               3.2              -3.          cinps of the stasiar  Tibes SWd
Private Consuawtm P.C.                   2.6              2.8              -29           tandad detahuste. Tie indicators
laport flastlcLtys                                                                         racatly copetda celmiw  VW  (w
tmowts winU3  i w1  op)                  1.0              3.4             -19.5         fiscal yea In the cm  of fIscal yea
countries. staff astluate ay "ve sam
SworimS  8103  Matis                                                                       if fisal o prelIinary act   ame Met
Gross ltioual Sdavl                       .                 .                            yet availahle. Se in of .siata  aid
krm   mastic  Wast0                     19.              36.               3.2           relieinay fiure  shoud he odicatad
owre of Tota                      1945    1973    1960    196                                       P a prelldway date
Lior Fwrcea to-    - 
AIricelture                    34.7    30.4    28.1t    2.4.
Industy                        20.7    22.      23.5    20.9
Services                       44.6    47.5    50.4    52.!
TOta                          300.0   100.0   300.0   300.0



.zzu-muRmmlm  - 34 -
Mm           4193 * 6031                      Oil s Fat Xllt_ rtu  leli   U
L brboe 1 twl                       190    LU    L              116   116   £U    11    11    11    193                            U       l
Cil   2                            1b0 t.0    91.4    1510    241       191.    243.         99       t3      121      163       141        72
gini£thS                           10.0    74.t    42.4         73.?                                      g, 3 2 £  10   16  2    n      .9o
e_lty *                            M'sO  IJL2  MA   I1 M. UW                                 "I S               M    up   1 41                ..
fawtwes                            10.0      95.0    19.       12L2    16.4       MTL    263         234      319       no6    461
low Wef                            ItO4 O1  MO Ls.    M}   1M    It                                                                                                    - UU <.
064u                               100lB.0   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..  329327302314321331..
Ta  b               _b  Fs16 1.0               ..        ..       ..       ..        ..    £610    2         23130    251    2314         1031
ft'"
biuinr Isle                    100.0       ..        ..       ..       ..        ..     2426     1317      614       34     0I02        04
ItuSiatkd                     10O.O        ..       ..        ..       ..       .,    11006      U4l      1740     7323     31         732
Cltat  11*                     10.0        ..        ..       ..       ..       ..       119     402      2197       73      31        29
TotlW   chdi         wa   CbF      10.0        ..        ..       ..       .        ..    1 1    14437         01    1tin        m2s      11432
L. Truu  of Tn*ej  I10  a 10 1      19       13        190      190      10        £9
dbrc.  eIsu Pric  hoe              100.0   t1.1        94.4     9.0       0.1 
Niral.   1     Pr 1prc  IBM        10.0      96          .      94.2     92.7    102.1           Dti a the kEtec Indicators tdi
1eesr    l  Two  of Trad           100.0    101.0      91.2     90.0     97.6     67.4           elsil  fil"e tie diefistioi  ad
csc  of to t dt_d T&le ad
M$ delie   l(t  aret pricslt                             son ftttbusls Tt4lt IdicAeutr
O_ ld  it olet de tkt ts ut
L  blae d  Pap                      1        12        13       1        I9       1904           rKmltlY cplete dcle udat yr (w kr
-  -  -        -    -*-   -    -    -                             fiel We                o th  e cmof flul VW
E    t, of Bob ad Ws               23M      26167    27119    301       2762     2212            t bin).  hWf euel   ay be no
brdmdiu  MM                     106    21230    22312    2419        21143    16031            f fi#    o. r a rdleey ectols we Mt
Ns-Factoryies                    739      43       40r        36      396      511            yet avellebl.  Thbe Mo    tuteS   ad
rdiden   florn  led be lisuedd
leWft of Dode V                    2143W    197    1260    160          1o4       16211          by,
Mrcndiu   (FM                   1ON6    1443U    310    1123         £32t2    1132
Ni-Ftlr   "ice                   6780     32       414       43       $116     4179
Rnwce  Deleac                      -220      630      144      M06       926       M101
Not factor l1e                     -620    -12314    -9472   -1024?    -90       -7161
(isrtw   ml                     45.       77       3154    1023       946      on?
Ibt Dorset Truasfrs                  27       296       502      4;1     1002      "0
Sonrts remittancesl                  ..        ..       ..
Curreot kcnmt  ianec               -3t62    -62110    541       4240     123    -1270
Lug-Tue Cett  In.l                    74     93       47        24m1     -410      144
Direst InnVtw   t                2136     165       461       190      491      90
Offidtil Caitl   mt                ..       ..        ..       .         .       .
4,t LT Ls  (M dIat a)                     791      2165      1142      323   -2951
11rW  LT infloe  (lkt)          -1271      236      £91o      519    -1229     2194
Totatw  ntess (t)                   136I   -337      -S        -41      -311      1191
lbt   ort-we Capital             1136    -1       -0        -32      -169      1412
Capit Fls R   ILLI.                 0        0        0         0        0        0
Ernrus ad knees.                -3770    -5313    -1075    -1014    -136       -217
Dam  in Nlt huu                     -99      410    -I3        -2110     mt        -69
NAt Creit frai  INF              -13       221      I03      1100      610     109
ot0b kw" aenp
S - iuilctn tlweru              -3        4569    -        -3w50      2121    -1160
i   rsh of UP
bi        blow                   -1.2      3.0     t0.2       3.2      5.2      4.6
Inteasl Paymtl                    2.5      4.7      3.7       6.0      5.3      6.9
Carrot koust LDe.                -4.4.  -S.7        3.3       2.1      0.7     -1.0
_made it=,
utenatl herna  (el1. ON)            2960       3      3913      7272     46       570
Wee f.  1e   eIt. 101               4197     17M      4739      M11      516      6614
ifficdl I-* t  ILC -)              22.91    16.40   120.09   167.13   256.37   611.77
I      HIs EMl II I. 1-4 1M   19  100.00    31.57    71.71    93.31    96.22    60.40       -
60  (illns of  rst UN)    13 t1    1                 142736  1t71      In=3 I77  27136



- 35 -
Pago   of 
Ewe  sE     ( U                                      bath  ates 11 t.l
1,  st Seti _w       t            19t       M 12  115        11    to          ltwo              l1                to 1     1to      Ii
Otmt  $      Its                    .6       9.6     4.t     33       3.5      30.6               4.6              -3.6    -5.6       -6.2
can"t  twdltue                    PA.2       7.     34.5     3.?    5.4         0.6              12.2              -2.3      1.9      21.4
COWt kEt lae                        1.6    -7.6     4.4       0.3    -2.9    -9.3                  ..              2.1   1l8.        200.0
cqitI Racte                          ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..                ..                ..       ..        ..
Cusitel fapesEitares             -9.4    -9.         6 .0    -7.5      4.1    -5.8               -9.6               4.2     -.7       -3.?
genll leidt fecuatel               -7.1   -17.7    -6.4    -7.2       4.0   -15.6                 2.5               0.0      5.3      69.4
Offbt 11Cpital baits
IatUc ko-as  Fusaing
luntic 8Du  FiuiKing
lit Dishurseuexts (USM  llionsl                  lot Oetstla I   Diswtd (WS sit.)
i. Wfitd  Captal FlusIdt           -
ad  Ilt kr. Ratios              1960    1962     1M       191      IM       1986     1910     I92      19M      1914     195      t
Pillc   hbltcly  wartud LT   519           86t1    234         1158    "9       614    3398?   514       667      70071   1251O      7124
Officidl Crdito                 797      156     -23        M        66       ..    444    60          611      7370    839
thitilatSral                         its 11   -520      670      70        ..    3160      4761     4203    4630    5754
of itc  113               u3       21       176      419      43       m4      20       U9   261O           6      31m       448
eoif 1ick                   ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        0        0        0        0        0         0
llatoral                     29       4        257      334      -19       ..    12S       219      2460    254       2645
Private Cruitws                 4343   7I2       262       3        262             29M      44712   6009   61270         111 
Supplirs                     -52      -44      171    -15          e       ..      257      102       3       205      217
Fianscial Ibkets            439      7072     2443      509      257        .    296    440   59716   241    6331                .
Private tha-Enrmta    Li           1700    -700        0      3       -620      500              31 00Oo    1460    150    1t50      17
Total LT                          63        913    2365      1542      326     1114   41237   5942   61559    37I   69010            90124
IV let Crodit                     -114      222    1072      1234      30       m          0      221     1210    236O      2969     4060
Net 9orl-Tun  Capital             5114   -305!   -530   -37    -193            1412   16163   21147    10139    640         550      5w
Total including IF & MIt ST       11141  S071   -2393    -751    -1064         3249    57450   611Q 0    929      97t71    97429    100064
Bak and IDA Ratios                t980     1952     19M      194       7115    1             -----------------------
=______                                              --      -- _      -- _.   _--           Ila,:
S ar of Total Long-Ttta UOM
t. 1331 u 2 of Total              5.00     4.51     C.52     3.71    4.24    5.13            Data on the Econouic lQdicators tables
2. 1I as 2 of Total              0.00     0.00      . 00    0.00     0.00     0.00          should follow the -dfinitimns and
3. 11RD.t16 as 2 of Total         5.00     4.51     3.52     3.73     4.24     4.66          concepts of the Standard tat.en aud
Share of Total LT Ibt Sarvices                                                               Standed Attahamt.  The indicators
1. 38  as 2 of taQtl              2.71     2.t5    t.O?      3.11     4.32     6.10          should include data through the mot
2. IDA a 2 of Total                               ..           ..            ..              racently co"leted calendar year (or
3. IDID  as 2 of Total            2.73    2.65      3.07     3.11    4.32      6.10          fiscal yeW  if the Cas of fiscal year
couritri"e.  Staff  stiat. say be used
Dol-to-faots Ratios                                                                          if final or prlimnary actuals ae not
- *                yet available.  Theuseof estimitus ad
t. Long-Twa Mt/Exports          161.64   215.AS   265.06   272.79  299.25   362.15           preiainy fiures should he indicated
2. IMF Crditperhts                0.00     0.80     4.40     7.27    9.98    17.09           by:
3. krt-Tors ltlfports            65.63   94.46    35.44    19.63    13.32   24.13
4. LT410`41 OllIEapprts         233.27   311.16   324.90   29S.39  27 .6   362.15
p t preliinay data
NI-o-lI  atios
1. LotTwn Iet/IP                 22.t6   35.78    57.14    51.71    SD.IS it .69
2. IWC itlUP                     0.00     0.13     0.36     t.33     1.17     3.19
3. Short-tera DutI6               3.67    11.6t    7.10      3.76     3.07    4.64
4. LTIIIF*IT 1086i1              30.83   51.57   is.13    56.64    54.93    67.69
lWt krvlce/Enmrts
t. Public  6 rat d LT            32.0    34.22   40.04    34.9    31.90    39.5
2. Private lu-laraataed LT        5.6    10.44    5.40    14.26    11.25    11.53
S. tot  Lt hit  3vlce            37.97    44.67    45.4    49.19    43.16    51.04
4.  VF ARpurChas 'v WY gtL
5. Interes lly     S t  tdt
6. Total (LtylWIUFT lot.)                                                                            ----------------------------



- 36 -
Pao   of 2
YAtUM  OF OA*k  GROUP OP86A1tO6  to NWXSCO  1/
#a..a.uan.aaai..U  U5*.....................
A.  ,ttseant of lfok Lease
14. of June a0o  16071
iusa s1tlten)
Fieeet                                                Asount Lese       Undie-
Locn Me.   Vest    Sorrosec        Purpose                      Cenoelttesinen    Sured
TO teens ftulty diobuteed                     4t0OO.t1
706-6    1870        M "APZelA     Irrigatioen                         0.00        8s.11
-S~   1660    "NAFINIA             Irrigssation                      160.00        l30.66
1818       lot       1    6ANON*A  Vetsr Supplty                     133.00         44.48
1080       160t        6063AAS    Urben OaveloPaent it               161.00        66.tt
1046       113       "NAPINSA      Integrated Buret Oev.             1,5.00         16.86
t143       1060      NAPINSA       Capitat Soode tndustey             ¶53.1O        64.40
Otie       1863      WAPINSA       Poleution Contreol                  11.0         1t.61
31694      1868      6*o0n0*       Urban Engineering                    8.30         8.48
o368       1108      PAPINSA       Aerttoitural marketing            110.00         83.81
0601       1368      8AM033A6      Third Wetet supptl                 10.*$0        68.1?
Rose       18ts      IAPINSA       Third so/Ned Industyt              1t.00        117.60
3881       1868      IAPCOONXT   lSpert OevetOpeent                   810.00        84.07
3436       1884      5*A0Q8*A      WiGhways                          100.00        107.11
8450       1064      GARPMACA      Poets                               76.30        66.03
f585       18$8      3Aft156       Chiapee Rapeis  Noel.               83.00       .1.86
Rse6       1665      N*9168A       Chi epee ALte Gev.                  00.00        61.04
-346       1065 t80    PIOA        So/Red Seels* t1n1r It             101.00        0l.O6
ease       1866      XAFIXsA       Vsoetionatl  oueetten               81.00        88.16
8576       l068      3AONWAS       Neit*18 V                         a00.00        837.46
3610       l066      6A*6168       Agtioultturs  Credit               180.00        446.8
3018      100       0*5OOR66      Low-lonoue  osweing I              160.00       1128.3
Ros6       1806      3*At*         Proderith St                       106.00        80.15
--0S-      1966      0A*OOA*      lertheushee Nehab.                  400.00       147*.1
1666      106       6ANOSRNA      NunietL £teagtben                   40.00        37.8
66e6       1360      BAU*0*84      Solid waste Pitot                   35.00        01.06
3748       1S0?      SA0*00fXT    Tr?ad  Peltio  Loan I               800.00        10.06
3746      10S       5Af*t         Industriel Neeovery                160.00       13o.90
3747      11"?       3AFI*         T,chn oloo  oetel@ePent             48.00        4S.39
37?7       1607      811           import Oevetopemot IT              8o0.00       187.51
3264 S/   1687       5A*0A8*S      Urben Trensport                    185.00       1325.0
358? SJ/  1667        APIX         Agrloutturet Crndit               400.00        400.00
2se5  5/   100?      *AFtf       t Se/Wed Zdustlise ITV              16S.00        185.00
3650 S/  1t7       NAPS$          Agricultural Istenelon             30.00         30.00
TOTAL                                         6,766.51
of wheich h es been repaid to the took        30i16.56
Totlt neow outstndin g.001.sS
Amount saet                  80.14
Of which as beeSn repaid    0.84                   0.00
Totat now held by Bank  I/                    t ,1.$
TOtet  undie*kured                                          3.8.
-------------------------------.*..---*
1/   Thn etatus of the projectse  listd  1i  Pert A Is in a separeted revert er
all 8en&/ZOA fteenoee prajeote in eeoutioen whch Is updated%v t-eue learty end
oiroutoeed to tbe Ixeutive Ottectere on April 80 and October 11.
3/   rieeri  to eachasof edjeteadsta.
not waet etfoties.
PR0Pn4t fAt .J761
1*revsotooLAIGG
August 8   1607



S. Stelseest* at 130 Im.eeSmemt
As of Joag $80 6307
SlUO oi Sloe)
Peer  *    Oh tiger                     ip~~~~~~~Tpe or Smeimees     Equity       Loan         feota
1350/00         nedustri@l Perfect
Gsleet. 6.A.  a/                   tndastri.tl quomenSo             0.0          0.e         e.g
lose            gelseel de Moulem                      A.G. Eagle* guerhesl             '.0         0.0          0.0
iW0             Leers Bolero S.A.  ', Twist *titlm                                      0.0         3.6          0.0
louI/0/S/S       uodr  aonenorep.              s        teel Ss.                       es..         3.8         38.7*)
loss       ~Tubes de Ie,.o do penis*               Uteinlee. Steel Pipep            0.1         0.0          1.0
1oss            Outmice del Aep, B.A.  a/              Sodium oulphsts                  0.0         0.1          0.7
j0e4/s          Kaduetrie del W          Lsts, d,..A.  censtruotiom Iquipeent           o.0         0.0          S.,
1e70            11109t  dot lorte  a.                  lro  ate llinfon                 0. 0         O.0         9.0
1671            Cotlons Owutlcao. 0.A.  s/             texttlee                         0.0        13.0         ls.'O
1073            Promotrer  de       *t its P   Periodi,os
0.A. et   C.V. A/   Pelp end Paper                                   hI          0*0           0/
1373/9         tCssets      e Vetosrei. 0.A.          Caement                           e.O        0s.1         10.
174/01          Ca1n Aret tes Notl                       ane.  tt1ntn                   0.3         1.0         1*.
107s/7e         Ueainfoa  S.A.                         Otatainse $toot                  $.e        ii..         1.0.
1370/01/08      Papoles Pondrorse. B.A.                Putl  *nd Paper                  5.0        10.7         10.?
10470           TerCfeetn to              .A8..        Potrsehes io                     O.0        13.0         1,.6
1073/81         betelo Goas* Resto muops.
0.A. de C.V.                       leurism                          4.3          0.8         4.*
1370/58         Impree.s Teltee.e  8.A.                Cgents                           7.0 1t0.0              175.0
1370            Cenductee Pe    ontee,rp  S.A. 8rA         tniest wire S Cobt           0.8        16.0         $*,0
1100            TImeeties.  llerotere 3.A.             Petieete eaed                    0.0        35.0         36.8
1000            Vidnis Pisan  do H1stee, $.A.          Fist $te..                       0.0       114.e        114.9
1000           l1lneret Beal de AC geles,
3.A. doe t.v.                      Nif1*g                           0.0        Ile.*       110.3
1o00           CXeluleslee  Centauts, 0.A.  a/    PUlP *nd Peepr                        0.0        34.0         04.0
1eo0            Cerperoeen Areenduesotic4
0.A. de C.V.                       .Agol-Sumose                     3.0        '11.3        14.0
10s0            Capittl 05de0 Peailip  a.'         coPnitp*t seeds Ptmamoi              0.0       104.8        I0S0,
100s            K1a4tsiee  8.A.                        Aute Shoels                      1.4          3.0         4.4
i004            Pfetelson, 0.A. is C.V.                lgni-eSuiaess                    0.8          3.0         I.S
1305            Preeengenoe I,duetnialee
Nesto.ss e.0.A. do 5.1.            Pogeemiete                       0.0         10.4        16.4
les 0et86                 I       zt OmeC  pt Paa   . Oursg
8.A. .e c.V.                       Pulp end Psopr                   1.0         Is..        11.6
100e            Agroemx Phaee I 11181)                 V*o. a Frust Preceosein          0.0          1.0         3.0
108s            utltenew                               Cheeeolt C Perecbemiceal         0.50 280                 3.
Tetet Orose commitments                                                51.3      7;4.;         77;.7
teee Cencttestise# Ter.iaetine,
Repepeeni, and Isles                                               to.?       6311.3       340.6
________ --  -------  ---------O 
To%*% commits-e%  tten ttetd by IPC                                    90.        lo.$         ISO.* 
--- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- ----*------- ---*---w@ - --" ------
0/   nwvsteepts cslb %teuw  beeen frtly eanocettod to rmietsd. eritte t *.
said. redeemed on repO1d.
0S ISUSSO000.
F/ LEteudas 10905.000 cepileltted inotrest.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO: SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Tinmetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare program:       6 months
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                   March/April 1987
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:          September 28, 1987
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       November 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The following are additional conditions of loan effectiveness:
The Bank shall have been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to it
that:
(i)   the Government's macropolicy framework is consistent with the
Trade Policy Program (the Program) supported by the proposed loan
and set forth in the Government's Statement of Development Policy
(Annex IV); and
(ii)   continued implementation/maintenance of the calendar of tariff
reform as announced in the Government's Statement of Foreign Trade
Policy of June 19, 1986 (para.aO )
(b) Release of the second tranche of US$200.0 million of the loan would be
contingent upon:
(i)   satisfactory progress with respect to continued implementation of
the Program (para. 81);
(ii)   consistency of the macroeconomic policy framework of the
Government with the Program (para. 81); and
(iii)   reduction, no later than December 31, 1987, of the coverage of
NTBa by a minimum of about 20% of total production of goods in
Mexico, from the level of 63.1% of total prcductic.n existing in
November 30, 1986. Total production and the coverage of NTBs will
be calculated based on 1983 data, and according to the methodology
agreed with the Bank (para. 81).



_39                  annx IV
1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AH1
"A                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~PalleI of!I!
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
/<%Jllll£3L                       SECRETARIA DE CQMERCIO Y FOMENTO
INDUSTRIAL
MExico, D.F., a 29 de septiembre de 1987.
SR. BARBER B, CONABLE
Presidente
Banco l4undial
Washington, D.C.
En relacidn al Segundo Prdstamo de
Polltica Comercial, anexo al presente nos permitimos enviar a -
usted el documento que describe los principales avances y objeti
vos del Programa Econ6mico y de Polftica Comercial del Gobierno
N4exicano para 1987.
Aprovechamos la ocasi6n para reite
rar a usted las seguridades de nuestra mvs atenta y distinguida
consideraci6n.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION.
El Subsecretario de Hacienda             El Subsecretario de Comercio
y CrSdito Pdblico.                           Exterior.
LIC. FRANCISCO SUAREZ DAVILA.            LIC  LUIS B      AGUILERA.



40-                  ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11
c.c.p. Lic. H4ctor Hernandez Cervantes.- Secretario de Comercio y
Fomento Industrial.- Alfonso Reyes No. 30-lOo. Piso.
c.c.p. Lic. Gustavo Petricioli.- Secretario de Hacienda y Cr6dito
Pdblico.- Secretaria Particular.- Palacio Nacional.- Pre -
sente.
c.c.p.  Subsecretaria de Comercio Exterior.- SECOPI.- Alfonso    -
Reyes No. 30-9o. Piso.
c.c.p.  SubsecretarIa de Hacienda y Crddito PAblico.- Secretaria -
Particular.- Palacio Nacional.- Presente.
c.c.p.  Lic. Alfredo Phillips Olmedo.- Director General.- Banco  -
Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.- Camino Santa Teresa
No. 1679-llo. Piso, Ala Sur.- Col. Jardines del Pedregal.
c.c.p. Lic. Josg Angel Gurria Treviflo.- Director General de Cr4di
to PAblico.- Palacio Nacional.- Presente.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 11
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conablet
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC AND
TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987
1.       In July 1986, Mexico announced in the context of the National Plan
of Development the adoption of ezonomic measures for structural change and
growth. Two basic principles hive guided formulation of the economic
strategy for the immediate fut re: (a) a return to sustained growth of the
economy in a climate of finar Lal stability; and (b) introduction of the
measures needed to resolve internal and external disequilibria and foster
efficiency in the economy. The achievement of these goals is mainly the
responsibility of the Mexican people and their Government. It is, however,
clear that an important role should continue to be played by the Country's
foreign creditors.
2.       In this context, we refer to the Government's Statement of Foreign
Trade Policy of June 39, 1986. Through this document we review recent
developments, and the major directions and measures which the Government of
Mexico has adopted, or intends to implement, in economic and trade policy.
Recent Performance of the Mexican Economy
3.       The fall in the price of oil and other commodities which took
place in 1986, constituted a major shock for the Mexican economy. In
addition to the impact on the balance of payments, the decline of US$8.5
billion in oil receipts (6.6 percent of GDP) reduced public sector revenues
by one-fourth. In response to this situation, the Mexican authorities
undertook fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policy measures aimed at
containing the impact of the fall in the terms of trade on the balance of
payments and output; at the same time, the process of structural change
initiated in 1983 was intensified. Despite the fact that external
financing was greatly below expectations, the economic program was
implemented and the policy objectives were achieved.
4.       Fiscal performance in 1986 was broadly in line with expectations.
The operational deficit for 1986 is estimated to have been the equivalent
of 1.7 percent of GDP compared with a program limit of 2.1 percent of GDP
and the total public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) was the equivalent
of 16.3 percent of GDP compared with a program limit of 16.9 percent of
GDP. Due to delays in the availability of foreign credit the public sector
deficit in 1986 had to be financed entirely from domestic sources.



- 42 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                    ANNEX IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                                Page 4 of 11
5.       The balance of payments of 1986 was substantially stronger than
had been expected. There was a sharp increase in non-petroleum exports, a
contraction of imports and an inflow of private capital. Non-petroleum
exports rose 'y 41 percent from 1985 to 1986.  Foreign direct investment is
estimated to have risen from US$0.5 billion in 1985 to about US$1.1 billion
in 1986; this increase reflected in part operations under the debt-equity
swap scheme. The deficit in the overall balance of payments, which had
reached US$1.9 billion during the first half of 1986, amounted to US$1.1
billion for the yeor as a whole. This performance occurred notwithstanding
the large decline in oil expo-v receipts from 1983 to 1986 and delays in
the entry of external financing.
6.       The measures implemented in 1986 limited the potential disruptive
effects of the sharp drop in oil export revenues. The latter,
nevertheless, had major adverse effects on output growth and the price
level. Real GDP contracted by 3 1/2 percent from 1985 to 1986, and the
rate of growth of employment decelerated. The rate of increase of consumer
prices rose from 64 percent in the 12-month period ended December 1985 to
106 percent in the 12-month period ended December 1986.
7.       In the first quarter of 1987, the steady implementation of sound
policies continued to have a major, strong impact on the balance of
payments, leading to a substantial accumulation of international reserves,
estimated net of the official external financing package, at around US$750-
900 million monthly. This was, to some extent, the result of recent
developments in oil exports, but also substantially because of inflows of
private capital. However, the inflation level continues to be high, it is
a high priority of the Mexican Government to achieve a turn around in
inflation as early as feasible.
Macropolicy Performance in 1985-86
8.       The encouraging results of 1986 were made possible by the Mexican
authorities, response to the crisis, which consisted of intensifying policy
reform in public, finance management and introducing far-reaching structural
changes, particularly in the area of trade liberalization. To summarize
some of these actions, in the fiscal area, public expenditures have been
tightly controlled, relative prices of goods and services provided by the
public sector have been adjusted, subsidies have been reduced while still
attending to the needs of the disadvantaged, and tax regulations have been
modified to permit significant improvements in tax collection.
9.       A major step in the transition to a more competitive economy was
taken in July 1985 with the drastic reduction in import licensing
requirements. At the same time, important flexibility was introduced in
exchange rate and interest rate policies, and monetary and credit policies
were maintained consistent with the Government's efforts to achieve
stability. Important efforts were also initiated in reducing the public
sector's role in non-priority and non-strategic areas of the economy,
industrial reconversion of public enterprises, improving the selection
process for public investments, and the legal framework for procurement by
public enterprises. The oil shock of 1986 did not lead to a reversal of
direction, but to the reinforcement of structural change.



- 43 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                   ANNEX -IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                               Page 5 of 11
Trade Policy'Performance in 1985-86
10.      In 1985 the Mexican Government announced its intention to achieve
a sharp reduction in import licensing requirements by the end of the year.
After some gradual progress earlier in the year, the Mexican authorities
removed licensing requirements from 3,604 tariff positions out of 8,010
drastically reducing the import coverage of quantitative import
restrictions (QRs) to 39?, and the coverage of domestic production to about
552. Tariffs were raised on some items at this time, the objective being
to prevent an adrupttchange in the levels of effective protection, yet the
dispersion of import tariffs declined to 18.9?. After the July 1985
changes, official import reference prices (ORPa) covered about 1,215
tariffs positions or about 19.52 of domestic production, of which 13.8? had
no QRs.
11.      After the July 1985 reforms, the Mexican Government's drive to a
more open economy and an increased integration of Mexico in the world
trading community was marked by further prominent achievements in 19.6.  A
crucial test for the new trade policy came following the collapse of the
price of oil early in the year. To instill confidence in the private
sector and generate clear signals for efficient iuvestment planning, the
Government published its Trade Policy Pregram for 1986-88. This Program
announced A calendar for reducing the maximum rate of import tariff by 302
by October 1988, as well as for reducing the number of tariff levels and a
strategy for further opening the economy, through gradual elimination of
QRs and ORPs. Implementation of the Tariff Calendar and of NTB Reduction
was carried out according to plans in 1986. The msximum tariff was reduced
to 45X, and the tariff range from 0-100 in April 1986 to a range of 0-45Z,
with fewer rates. By November 1286, the production coverage of QRs
decreased by about a further 5.8Z from the July 1985 level, and ORPs, on a
net basis, (i.e., on items not controlled by QRs) by about 0.5?. As a
result, overall production coverage of NTBs (QRs and ORPs) declined from
69.4? to 63.1? between January and December 1986, while that of QRs alone
fell from 55.6Z to 49.82; excluding petroleum derivatives, this latter
figure comes down to 29.2Z. The number of tariff positions covered by QRs
decreased from 839 to 638, and their import coverage (in 1986 values)
dropped from 35.1? to 27.8? Moreover, the automatic prohibition of imports
were removed, leaving only import licenses and quotas as the two forms of
QRs. ORPs were removed from over 220 tariff positions by December 1986,
remaining only on about 960 positions. The Trade Policy Program announced
in 1986 made clear the Government's commitment to remove all ORPs on
imports by December 1987, as also its intention to review ORis every three
months with a view to eliminating redundant protection. By ')ecember 1986,
the average unmeighted tariff level was reduced from 25.5? to 22.6?, while
the dispersion of the tariffs fell from 18.8? to 14.1?. The overall impact
of reduction of NTBs and tariff reduction was to diminish the prevalence of
excessive protection.
12.      Among the most important events of 1986 was the accession of
Mexico to the GATT, 'which became effective in August. Mexico is thus
participating as a full member in the current Uruguay Round Trade
Negotiations. The Mexican Government has announced that it intends to sign



- 44 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                 ANNEX IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                             Page 6 of 11
five imporaant GATT codes those relating to subsidies and countervailing
duties, anti-dumping, valuations for customs purposes, import licensing
procedures, and technical barriers to trade. With the signature of these
codes, Mexico will reach a highly satisfactory level of compliance with
GAST regulations and codes.
l
13.      Major efforts were made in 1986 to modernize and revise laws as
well as administrative and regulatory procedures affecting trade and
customs, with the aim of facilitating trade and reducing costly delays for
importers and exporters. With this objective, the Government has initiated
the establishment of modern anti-dumping and countervailing procedures to
combat unfair trade practices, in conformity with GATT provisions. The
Foreign Trade Act Regulations of November, 1985, and the new Trade
Regulation Act published in November 21, 1986, are designed to help
implement these changes. Further development of administrative and
technical capability and information resources are required to improve the
trade information system and ensure transparent application of anti-dumping
and countervailing procedures, with appropriate analysis of gains and
injury from trade.
Trade Policy Program for 1987-1988
14.      The Government intends to continue the implementation of its
Program of Trade Policy reform as it was originally conceived and announced
to all sectors involved in foreign trade. The specific measures to be
taken in 1987 and 1988, in accordance with this Program, are expected to be
carried out as proposed and planned without any significant change. Yet
some degree of flexibility must be retained to undergo minor adjustment, or
adaptation to prevalent economic conditions. The Program requires further
progress in removing NTBs, rationalizing the tariff structure, implementing
complementary policy changes and other structural reforms, and maintaining
an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.
15.      Between January 1 and September 15, 1987, a series of measures
helped keep the pace and progress in the program of rationalization of
protection. On March 6th, actions were taken as a second step of the
general program of tariff reduction, in which the number of tariff rates
came down from eleven to seven. The maxfimum duty diminished from 45? to
40X. Also, on August 28, as an additional measure against inflation the
Government eliminated the tariffs of about 900 items. The arithmetic mean
of the whole tariff schedule was decreased from 23? to 202. The average
standard deviation, also known as the tariff dispersion, was trimmed down
from 14 to 13, while the average tariff weighted with the value of imports
of 1986, decreased from 13? to 112. In the same period, the number of QRs
was brought down by 211 tariff items, QRs are currently applied on only 427
items, with a 25Z coverage in terms of import value (1986 data) and 41.5?
in value of production. ORPs were eliminated on 908 items, so by September
15, 1987 ORPs apply only to 52 tariff positions, amounting to 1.52 of the
value of imports for 1986 and 1.9? of the value of production. These
figures remain the same when considered net of those items which are
subject simultaneously to QRs and ORPs.



- 45 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOiMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                  ANNEX IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                              Page 7 of 11
NTB Reductions
16.      In addition, by December 31, 1987 the Mexican authorities will
further eliminate qualtitative import restrictions (QRs) so as to reach a
maximum level of NTB coverage of only 43.1Z of domestic production,
calculated pn the same basis and using the same methodology as so far, with
the commitment for no 'backtracking", i.e., no reintroduction of
quantitative import restrictions. With these measures, NTB coverage would
be reduced by the end of 1987 by approximately 20 percentage points of
domestic production, in comparison with the November 1986 level. It should
be noted that of the remaining production under QRs, about 20.6Z represents
petroleum and petroleum derivatives, which, because of the imperatives of
the Mexican Constitution and the legal framework, would remain controlled,
even after the trade policy referm process. Certain other items in the
basic agriculture, pharmaceuticals, automotive, and electronic subsectors,
as well as paper and cellulose, and a few luxury consumer goods may also be
excluded from the liberalization process, since these are covered by
specific legislation, or involve special economic and social
considerations. Similarly goods injurious to public health or morals, or
of strategic importance to national defense will remain subject to import
controls. In addition, the Government plans to undertake an effort to
remove import restrictions in agricultural and agro-industry products, as
part of the comprehensive, on-going reform of the agricultural sector; in
some cases,, an effective system of variable or seasonal tariffs will be
introduced.'
17.      The Mexican Government is concerned by the fact that its trade
policy program, which has already led to historic levels of openness, can
be jeopardized by the renewed protectionist trends in the industrialized
nations.  The elimination of QRs for certain products is affected to an
important extent by this issue, as it seems only reasonable to expect
greater opportunities for Mexican exports through market openings in
trading partners as the counterpart of rationalization of protection. The
elimination of QRs on apparels and garments is in particular constrained by
the economic effects of the Multifiber Agreement. The need to ensure
parallelism and equality of treatment with other countries is also evident
in steel and steel products which are affected by quotas in foreign
markets.
18.      The Trade Policy reforms in 1987 are seen as a key element to
complement and reinforce macroeconomic policies by permitting the
maintenance of a real exchange rate adequate to encourage non-oil export
growth, achieve balance of payments objectives, and the restructuring of
the economy to increase competitive efficiency. An equally important
macroeconomic 'objective of the trade policy is to combat inflation, to the
extent prices of tradeable goods would be restrained by the competitive
pressure of imports.
Tariff Reform
19.      The Government is committed to continuing the announced reform of
import tariffs in order to reduce dispersion and lower protective barriers.
The calendar for tariff reform, published in 1986, envisages by October 31,



- 46 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                  ANNEX IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                               Page 8 of 11
1988 a target range of 0-302 range in nominal tariffs. There would remain
only 5 tartff levels at this date, and the unweighted tariff average and
dispersion are expected to decline to 16.52 and 9.5%, respectively.  The
number of tariff rates has already been reduced to seven. The Government
plans to reduce the maximum tariff rate to 35X by the end of 1987. It is
estimated that already, in the third quarter of 1987, over 802 of items in
terms of total imports pay tariffs at the rates envisaged by the end of the
reform calendar.
General Tax on Imports, Temporary Import Surcharges. and Regla Octava
20.      In 1987, for fiscal and revenue considerations, and in the context
of macroeconomic policy, the Government consolidated previous taxes on
imports totalling 3.52 (allocated to FOMEX, the municipalities for export
promotion infraestructure, etc.), and increased the rate to 52, thus it has
become a general tax or levy. Although, to some extent this tax raises the
range and dispersion of the tariff structure announced in the tariff reform
calendar. The Government will examine, during 1987, the possibility of
phasing down or eliminating the general import tax of 52.
21.      In several programs, such as PRONAFICE, PROFIEX, as well as the
1986 Trade Policy Program, the Government declared its intentions of
granting industries or specific sectors deemed of priority or special
economic importance and covered by development programs additional
protection through temporary import surcharges not to exceed 502 of the
base tariff rate set for the product. So far, no such temporary surcharges
have been imposed. Under GATT provisions, such temporary surcharges on
imports can be applied for periods of up to 8 years. Any and all temporary
import surcharges will be imposed only after careful analysis of the
circumstances, and approval by the Tariff Commission. To guide the
evaluation of such cases, the Government intends to publish, no later than
December 1987, guidelines governing the imposition and use of temporary
import surcharges.
22.      The Regla Octava grants industries under special promotional
programs the right to import inputs at preferential tariff rates. To the
extent this feature contributes to increased dispersion or discretionality,
the Covernment intends to analyse the possibility of rationalizing the
incen:ive framework in industry in the context of restructuring projects in
particular sectors, and in formulating an industrial policy consistent with
a competitive economy.
23.      It should be noted that an important objective of the Government
is to control inflation and induce a turn-around of inflationary
expectations, among other objectives, to complement and support changes in
Trade Policy. In the case of some industries and subsectors, the pricing
issue requires careful analysis. In addition, the Government has
introduced major reforms to make the administration of price controls more
flexible, and adapt to a dynamic economy. These improvements will be
continued, particularly to make the process of establishing prices respond
to more uniform criteria.



- 47 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                   ANNEX IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                               Page 9 of 11
24.      The expansion of international trade as a result of trade reform
makes it important to ensure that transportation and telecomunications,
infrastructure, policies, and procedures are in a position to respond to
greater demand. Important recent improvements have been in the area of
customs inspection of containers. The Government has undertaken also a
project to improve the operating efficiency of major ports, as well as the
physical and financial restructuring of the railroads. The authorities
plan to conduct further analysis of transportation to facilitate trade.
25.      The Government will also further pursue in 1987 the improvement of
customs procedures, and of the information base and administrative
capability for implementing transparent anti-dumping and countervailing
procedures. Mexico signed the GATT codes on import licensing, anti-
dumping, customs valuation and technical norms in July 1987. Additionally,
the code on subsidies and countervailing duties is being examined with the
intention to subscribe to it.
26.      The Government has, in recent years, reduced substantially export
controls, and implemented in February 1987 a major reform of export duties.
Excluding oil and derivatives, export controls currently account for only
about 17Z of total production; an additional 39 tariff positions remain
prohibited from exporting. The major portion of controlled exports are,
for important social and political reasons, agricultural commodities; the
reform of these controls is being analyzed by the Government in the
framework of comprehensive reform of the agricultural sector. Steel
products are subject to controls primarily because of international
agreements. In export duties, the Government introduced in February 1987,
72 new exemptions and 20 reductions. Following these changes, by the third
quarter of 1987 only 62 tariff positions remained subject to export duties.
They represented special items, e.g., coffee (subject to international
quota restrictions) and animal or plant species to be protected.
Macroeconomic Policy Framework and Related Structural Changes
27.      The Government is determined to maintain an appropriate and
consistent macroeconomic policy framework and should conditions require,
undertake structural reform in other areas, with the objective, among
others, of supporting the Trade Policy Program in 1987. The Mexican
authorities' economic policy for 1987 will be guided by the following main
objectives: a) to encourage moderate growth with increased employment;
b) to control inflation; and c) to consolidate and widen the process of
structural change.
28.      The Revenue Budget for 1987 calls for measures, which, together
with some projected recovery in oil export prices, are expected to result
in a surplus at the level of the primary balance of about 4.2Z of projected
GDP. This represents an increase in the primary balance excluding oil
exports in 1987 of 2.2Z of GDP, which would imply a full absorption of the
fiscal impact of the 1986 oil shock in only two years.
29.      The correction of relative price distortions is an important
element in improviz8 resource allocation, eliminating inequitable
subsidies, and achieving a satisfactory fiscal performance. Substantial



- 48 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                    ANNEX IV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM  OR 1987                               Page 10 of 11
adjustments have already taken place in recent months in a large number of
public sector prices. While public sector prices and tariffs are to be
revised in a periodic and timely fashion, care will be taken to avoid the
indexation of prices and costs in order to avoid the institutionalisation
of inflation.
30.      The fiscal reforms that has been introduced as part of the
Economic Program for 1986-87 aims at reconstituting the tax base that had
been eroded by inflation. A key feature of the fiscal reform is the
recently approved correction of the corporate income tax base, which will
now be calculated on the basis of income calculated by deducting only the
real component of interest payments and/or exchange losses from taxable
income. The reform is to be phased in over a four-year period, during
which the corporate tax rate will be lowered from 422 to 35Z. The changes
in the income tax law will make it more attractive for firms to finance
themselves with capital increases instead of borrowing, and other
incentives have also been designed with this objective. Other measures
include the closing of loopholes in the law governing the value-added tax,
a higher yield from import duties because of the replacement of import
permits by tariffs, an increase in the tax on automobiles, and the
adjustment of a number of non-tax revenues. These changes are being
supported by a significant increase in the resources devoted to tax
administration and incentives for improved collections. The Fiscal Program
for 1987 also calls for a reduction of current outlays on goods and
nonfinancial services, and provides for some increase in investment
expenditures, even while diminishing total programable outlays. At the
same time, the process of budgeting, evaluation, and selecting public
investments is being greatly strengthened.
31.      The Mexican authorities intend to continue during 1987 with
structural change within the public sector along two major linest
'desincorporacion', which includes the selling, merger, closing, and/or
transferring of nonstrategic and nonpriority public enterprises, and
industrial reconversion. The authorities reaffirm the principle stated in
the Constitution and the various laws of Mexico of maintaining under state
control the strategic and priority public enterprises.
32.      Apart from parastatal restructuring, the authorities are currently
designing measures for industrial restructuring in the private sector.
Other measures in the private sector include substantial improvements in
the incentive, administrative and credit framework of export promotion.
33.      The Bank of Mexico will continue to pursue a monetary and credit
policy in 1987 designed to contribute to the achievement of the balance of
payments targets establishment under the Government's program, the recovery
of economic activity and deceleration of inflation. A flexible interest
rate policy will continue to be followed in 1987, thereby assuring the
maintenance of a competitive yield on domestic savings. It is projected
that the available domestic financing savings will grow in real terms in
1987. These savings, together with the foreign resources flowing to the
country, are expected to ease restrictions on credit.



- 49 -
MEXICO - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND THE ECONOMIC                    ANNEX TV
AND TRADE POLICY PROGRAM FOR 1987                                Page 1-1 of 11
34.      Considerable progress has been made in recent years in improving
the efficient allocation of ciedit by the development banks and the
official trust funds, and in reducing Implicit subsidies. These efforts
are being continued in 1987.
35.      The exchange rate policy followed during 1986 and early 1987 has
proven successful in the very difficult circumstances faced by Mexico as a
result of the oil shock and the virtual absence of net external financing.
This policy, which, through gradual daily exchange rate adjustments,
resulted in a substantial depreciation of the real exchange rate in 1986,
stimulated non-oil exports, reduced imports, and fostered efficient import
substitution. Exchange rate policy will continue to be directed to
fostering a degree of external competitiveness consistent with the growth
of exports, the rationalization of protection and the achievement of a
satisfactory overall balance of payments situation.
External Financing
36.      For 1987 it is expected that credit will become available to
Mexico, reflecting in part the delayed entry of funds originally expected
in 1986. Overall, net capital inflows to the public sector of about US$5.8
billion are now envisaged. Consistent with the monetary and fiscal
policies being planned and the projections for the current account and the
private capital balance, the authorities anticipate that the credits
available in 1987 will contribute to support the Government's objectives in
the external sector, which include continued growth and diversification of
non-oil exports, and supporting efficient economic growth.



- 50 -
ANNEX V.
Page lof 2
Mexico
Second Trade Policy Loan
fund Relations with Mexico
(As of March 31, 1987)
1.   Membership Status
(a) Member since December 31, 1945
(b) Status - Article VIII
A. Financial Relations
1I. General Department (General Resources Account)
(a)  Qaoea:  SDR 1,165.5 million
(b) Total Fund holdings of Mexican pesos: SDR 4,434.7 million
or 380.5 percent of quota
(c) Fund credlt:. SDR 3,269.1 million or 280.5 percent of quota
Of which:   SOR 591.6 million or 50.8 percent of quota
under credit tranche
SDR 1,123.5 million or 96.4 percent of quota
under IF?
sDt 1,554.0 million or 133.3 percent of quota
under £h
(4) Reserve tranche position: None
(e) Curreat Operational Budget: Not applicable
(f) Lending to the fund: Not applicable
LUI. Current Stand-By or txtended Arrangement and Special Facilities
(a) Stand-by arrangement Is in effect at present
(i)   Duration from November 19, 1986 to April 1, 1988
(ii)  Amount:  SDR, L,400 million
(iiI)   Utilization:  SDR 450 million
(b)  fergency assistance
(1)   Duration:  purchase in January 1986
(Il)  AMout:  SDR 291.375 million
(III)   Utllization:  SDR 291.375 million
(e) Previous extended arrangement
(1)   Duration from January 1, 1983 to December 3f, 1985
(i)   Mount:  SOBR 3,410.6 mdllion
(iII)   Utilization:  SOD 2,502.7 mlllon
(tv)   Undrawn balance:  907.9 million
(d) Special facilities: CFF
(1)   Year approve4:  1976
(1i)   Amount:  sD  185 million
IV.   SDR Departnen
(a) Not cumistive allocation: SDR 290 million
(b) Holdings: SD& 0.24 mIllion or the equivalent of 0.1 percent
of net cumulative allocations
(c)  Current Designation Plan:  not applicable



- 51 -
ANNEX V
Pase 2 of 2
V.  Ad=uinistered Accounts,(amounts)
(a)- Trust Fund Loans:  Not applicable
(b) SFF Subsidy Account: Not applicable
Vl. Overdue Obligations to the Fund
None
B. Nonfinancial Relations
VIZ.  Exchange rate a:angement   Since August S, 1985 two official
markets have been operative in Mexico:  a controlled market
covering specified transactions amounting to about 80 percent
of trade and payments transactions, and a parallel sarket. The
controlled market rate is determined under a managed float
system guided by a set of indicators whereas the parallel
market rate is established by market forces. The cottrolled
market rate undergoes daily unspecified discrete adjustments.
Parties eligible to utilixe the controlled market (with the
exception of offices and agencies of the public administration)
can choose to complete any transaction at a "retail rate'
agreed between the parties and the financial-institutions
authorized to operate in this market, or at the 'equilibrium
exchange rate" of the day. The daily *equilibrium exchange
rate' is determined each day at a fixtig session at the central.
bank, uhere representatives of the varlous financial
institutions operating in the market exchange bids for
purchases and sales of foreign exchwage; the central bank may
also submit bids in these sessions. for transactions exceeding
US$50,000, the parties concerned maym ake completion of the
transaction contingent upon the equilibrium exchange rate
achieving a particular minimum or maximum value.  As of
March 31, 1987 the controlled market equilibrium exchange
rate' was Mexfl,126 per U.S. dollar, the average 'f.ree' rate
was Meax$l,118 per U.S. dollar, and the spread between the-
exchange rates In the,controlled market and the free market was
less than 1 percent.                                     .
VTTI.  Last Arttil  IV consultation and review under EI!:  The last
Article IV consultation and discussions of the 1986 program
were completed by the Executive Board on September 8, 1986
(UK1/861149, 9/8/86).  The relevant supporting documents were
Sh/86/220 and Supplement 1; tBS/86/161, Cor. 1, 9/5/86 and
Supplesents 1 through 3. For consultation purposes Mexico is
on the 12-month cycle.
On January 10, 1986 the Executive Board approved a purchase for
emergency assistance following the September 1985
earthquakes. The relevant document was 1BS/851276, 12/12/85.
II. Technical Assistance: At the request of the Mexican authorities,
during 1985 two  technical teas  from the Fiscal Affairs
Department provided technical assistance in the fields of
direct and Indirect taxation.



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
T-1
Table 1: MEXICO - QUANTITATIVE RESTRICTIONS ON IMPORTS. 1956-87
Number of Tariff Positions     % of Imports
Year          Total     Free    Conitrolled    under QRs
1956          4,129     2,753      1,376          28%
1962          5,204     2,891      2,313         52%
1966         11,000     4,400      6,600         63%
1970         12,900     4,500      8,400          59%
1973         16,000     3,200     12,800         64%
1977          7,340     1,476      5,864         92%
1978          7,453     4,214      3,239         81%
1979          7,587     5,228      2,359          60%
1980          7,776     5,910      1,866         55%
1981          7,877     5,794      2,083          60%
1982          8,017         0      8,017         100%
1983          8,030        13      8,017         100%
1984          8,063     2,844      5,219          83%
1985, June    8,068     3,555      4,513          75%
1985, July    8,068     7,168        929          39%
1986, Mar.    8,100     7,284        816          35% 1/
1986, Nov.   8,178      7,540        638         31% t/
1987, Mar.    8,161     7,525        636         31% r/
1987, Aug.   8,161      7,734        427         25Z
1, Based on import values in 1985
Source: Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
(SECOFI), unpublished statisties, various years.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
T-2
lMble 2: mUao - sItumRE (U QMIrM ITRVESREICr    ((S). 9&I
(Minber of llberzi aid Gazrolles tkeo, by Type Of Goods)
(in B$ Ml liors; As a erwrt)
31 DaMM  1984 1/              31 M =R  1985.                     18 Mai 1987 2/
Type of xds           NO. of        imrt             Nb. of        lurt             Nb.O Of         Mpt
Itnes    %  Value       2     items    2  Valte        2      items    2  1a           %
TMIAL GIMS 3/            8,063  100.0  10,047  100.0   8,091  100.0  11,804  10O       8,161   100.0  11,874   100.0
Cownmer Godas            711   &8       795   7.9       709   8.8  1,009   8.6         729    8.9   1,009    8.6
=-ernelate Gs            5,504  68.3  7,067   70.3   5,536  68.4  8,206   69.5    5,655   69.3  8,107   69.4
- CptA GIs               1,848  22.9  2,185  21.8   1,846  22.8  2,589  21.9    1,777   21.8  2,561    21.9
LPDLAL   ) 1fi           2,844  35.3  1,664  16.6   7,252  89.6  7,664  64.0    7,512   92.0   8,09%   69.0
- Cew        Groaos         31   0.4       23   0.2       40)  5.1    294   2.5          477      5.8    305    2.6
- Iitexmdate Good        2,032   25.2   1,065   10.6   5,109   63.1  5,20t  44.0    5,323   65.2   5,462   46.9
- Cqtia Goods              781    9.7    576   5.8   1,734  21.4  2,169   18.4    1,712    21.0  2,270    19.5
*xiRDUVJ  Si              5,219  64.7  8,383  83.4        839   10.4  4,140  35.1        636    7.8  3,619   30.9
- Ca rw Gsd                6D)   8.4    772   7.7         300   3.7    714   6.1         252    3.1    704    6.0
-   temdiate Coo         3,472   43.1   6,0M   59.7       427    5.3  3,006  25.5        320    3.9  2,624   22.4
- C tul Gds              1,067  13.2  1,609  16.0         112   1.4    420   3.5          64    0.8    290    2.5
1/ 1w inmort vales are for tin perioa           e    r  1984.
2/ 11  Impt valu   a   fwor ttn priod J         e      r 1985.
B  G BMul bat Tariff Stuce
MIM: (a) As of Atust 1987, only 419 taiff pouitboa are uler quimtative rnszetiom. 7h kdum  by tin
eaties dob  is ot curently  ailable.
(b) Prduibitmi ta    we nt inclue. T FAny 1987, tce inmer of tciff ina wm    ed   tom 8,161, but tte
orall stmrtue of tie contolle  sar uzt=rlld  tan rmeni    the aA.  Mjusunat  for error arA datur
tadff8 iCCost for wen. discrepona. Data lbed an this dwe classificAtion for huwt 1987 are At
availdla.
Sazre:   Gan     &2en of  arIffs, UrAer Sccriat Of Pbreigi Trai, Secretarit of Caar  arn Irntrlal Dwdqpt
(SlmI).



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
T-3-
Table  3:   MEXICO - CONIROLLED IMPORT ITEMS BY SECTOR O  oRIGIN I/
(effective March 18, 1987)
No. of
Sector of Origin           Tariff            z           X of Domestic
Posit ions                    Production
Total Number
of Tariff Positions        8,161           100.0             100.0
Controlled Items              636            7.8              49.8
Agroindustry/Forestry      114             1.4              13.9
Petroleum/derivatives       12             0.1              20.6
Automotive industry         63             0.8               2.5
Rule 8                       54             0.7               0.0
Chemicals                   22             0.3               0.6
Pharmaceuticals             91             1.1               0.8
Capital goods               24             0.3               0.1
Luxury goods               151             1.9               7.2
Textiles and garments       36             0.4               3.0
Paper and printing           6             0.1               0.3
Fisheries                   27             0.3                1.1
National defense            25             0.3               0.0
Health hazards              11             0.1               0.0
1/  As of August 1987, onIy 419 tariff positions, covering about 41.7%
of production, are under quantitative restrictions. The breakdown
by categories, as given below, is not currently available.
Note: A historical comparison is not available because of a recent
change in classifying products in some sectors, such as agriculture
and luxury goods.
Source: SECOFI



Table 4:  MEXICO - CHANGES IN STRUCTURE OF THE IMPORT TARIFF, 1985-87
January 1985          January 1986         November 1986             March 1987
Tariff
Level         No. of      Share      No. of     Share    No. of      Share       No. of       Share
Items        X        Items        X       Items        2         Items          2
TOTAL         8,063       100.0      8,091      100.0    8,178       100.0       8,148        100.0
Exe-ptions      257         3.2        228        2.8       288        3.5         288          3.5
5           405         5.0       333         4.1         -         -            -          _
10         3,954        49.0     3,182        39.3    3,481        42.5       3,354        41.2
15             0         0.0          I        0.0        -          -            -          _
17.5           -          -          -          -         32        0.4           -          -
20           470         5.8        112        1.4        23        0.3       1,313         16.1
22.5           -          -           -         -      1,279       15.6           -          -
25                                                                              191         2.3
27.5           -          -           -         -          9        0.1           -          -
30            51         0.6         52        0.6        22         .3           -          -
33             -          -           -         -          -          -       1,934        23.2
37             -          -           -         -      1,894       23.2           -          -                        V
40         1,061        13.2      1,883       23.3         9         .1       1,044         12.8                      1
45             -          -           -         -      1,043       12.8           -          _
50           458         5.7       969          -          -         -            -
75           183         2.3          0         -          -         -            -
100           339         4.2        151         -          -         -            -          -
Average
Tariff                     23.3                  25.4                 22.7                     21.0
Tariff
Dispersion                 22.5                  18.9                 14.1                     12.1
Weighted
Tariff                      8.6                  12.4                 12.5                     13.1*
Source: General Bureau of Tariffs, lInder Secretariat of Foreign Commerce, Secretariat of Commerce
and Industrial Development (SECOFI).
* Weighted by imports of January-March, 1987.
c-



-56 -                                              AEX VI
T-5
bbl. 5    0 -    X _oWVdUWIUin81)
_ee              tel        Sd
Table_Ss  M UM               _I         r f                         t    1 OM
fto~~im  WI37F~~~               7I   f T4Pvc*sg"
IACI                                          6.9  *1.6          10.15           63.90           4        6.8         5.30
i        A Jimliue                        8.9     11.8       10.15           65.10        8.04        6.M         .30
It    1ODLt:S                                                    23.90          35.02        1S."         9.5         6.S
11      Vlt ad sil roaft,                21.4     2.S         6.57           35.40        5.20        13          1.24
12       Pmuued fLimts aid ,a*1m         3.       S.4         0.57            7.20        0.4         046         0.00
13       IUluq twosoe                    34.7     34.7        2.45           39.90        1.94        0.76        0.00
14       8am1 Mosus                      37.      37.4        2.4             00          1.90        0.00        0.00
15       conetosom                       40.0     4.0         0.1             9.50        0.4         O."         0.64
16       3afind _                         1.2      1.4        1.34           90.0         1S          0."         0.95
17       AnteS ad V_EtUle ml             13.6     13.6        1.52           60.40        1.20        0.6         0.69
18        iAI bood                       26.6     26.6        0.96           o0a.         0.76        0.00        0.0
19       lueellamamfeob                  31.7     32.4        2.47           51.50        1.96        0.9         0.56
20       Lcole  UaUrs                    29.9     29.9        0.96           99.40        0.7s        0.78        0.78
22       boalcobolf bmw_                 39.2'    39.2        1.64          100.00                    1.29        0.03
is       Tolec_ twosm                    40.0     46.         0.76          100.OO        0.60        0.40        0.40
1tt LI31E, I inS41D, 56)SAM                                       7.97          17.12         6.31        I."         1.06
2        tlut_t                          13.7     14.0       6.38           11.60         4.97       1.93        0.56
3         otrWt                         2.0    22.0          0.74            0.00       0O.9         0.00        0.00
4        pubh   d Safood                 39.3     39.5       0.95           66.70         0.75       0.50        0.0
v   m1818                                                         3.0            0.00         2.77        0.08       0.00
S        Cata dbuivetvm                  1L?      1.7        0.37            0.00        0.29        0.00        0.00
7        Imora                           0.0      0.0        0.18            0.00        0.14        0.00        0.0
a           Nh       tarutl iodmi.      23.6      23.6       2.05            0.00         1.62       0.00        0.00
9        Cate                            17.9    19.7        0.53            0.00         0.42       0.00        040
10       Otlurn wtaiuc daataI             7.4      9.6        0.36            0.00        0.30        0.0o        0.00
v    dAACwRM                                                     7t.1            36.01        6.11        2.89        2.20
56       hStintUa.                       31.1     31.1        2.44           95.50        1.93        1.64        I4
38         unogucaleo                    18.2     27.2        1.40            9.90        1.11        0.76        0.1
SI    _ malastria o m1iuq                26.0     26.0        1.99             .70        1.56         M1         0.14
52       glotricul _ddsub                31.5     30.0        0.86           0.0          0.61        0.01        0.00
55        BlastrIsel .*u1z t             33.1     33.1        O.9             0.00        0.47        0.01        o.0o
so       ?riptr euipet ad smartals 17.3            17.3       0.43           MOO          0ao4        0.12        0.11
VI 02986 NA3A1401                                                46.77          1646         370          7.91        5.95
24        sot fibr prdeut                30.7     30.7        3.4             5.40        2.76        0.13        0.15
25      lRd filor proDums                18.6    I16          0.20            3.00        0.16        0.01        0.01
26       Otbt t _ttle                    359      35.9        0.92           28.30        0.73        0.19        0.t9
27        1Arel                          39.9     39.9        3.40           91.2         2.49        2q67        2.4
28        1thr ad d.e_                   34.3     34.3        1.67           67.10        1.48        1.10        0.99
29       StlnlprOklet                    26A      36.4        1.64            0.00        0.62        7.25        0.00
30       O0r idPto&,Cto          38.2             3a.8        1.38            0.00        1.09        0.00        0.00
31       P    ai ca"  d_ boa             27      V26          2.76           10.80       1.97        0.22        040
32                                        9.7      9.7        1.59            0.00        1.26        0.00        0.00
34       saec Pegreaja                    4.2      4.2        1.24           0.00         0.98        0.00        0.OA
35    _    scdms1                        22.0     220          .14            5.30        0.90        0.06        0.05
36      1*re ad fatWier                   7.2      7.2        0.56           0.50         0.44        0.00        0.0
37       Stleaan                         29.5     29.5        2.13           0.0          1.9         0.00        0.00
39       su, bterpt, camale             36.7     36.7        1.96           52.          1.57.       0.80        00
40             dmmlaas                   24.6     24.7        2.".           24.30        1.63        0.47        0.45
41       _ubbor predats                  32.5     32.5        1.5            3.70       t1           0.05        0.05
42        PlUati proades       c         34.0      34.0       1.33           19.60        1.07         .47        0.21
43       Gln ad lcu    prudust           36.3     36.5        0.81            0.40        0.          0.01        0.00
U4        c t                            i0.0     2D.0        0.92            0.00        0.73        0.00        0.00
43       Othr _tm       o mieral         31.5     31.5        1.74            4.00         1.39       0.16        0.06
46         uc   rm    "Kau               18.2      17.6       4.0     O       0.60        3.E0        0.02        0.02
47        lu    Aer        U  2la                 22.6        1.11           0.40         OS          0.00        0.00
48       Ibtal fam                       32.6     38.6        0.29            3.10        0.23        0.01        0.01
49         st1ua  _b%a                   31.0     31.0        0.51           o0a.         0.40        0.00       O.0
50      Oad" (NW. mdiln )                25.3      5.3        2.05            1.0         1.62        0.05        0.03
53       no     actimi  mditezy          395    309.5         0.67           29.80        0.53        0.4         0.16
54          Onctr   dp                   32.6     33.5        1.50           22.20        0.99        0.26        0.22
57       Ir._ e. tui. vdich  pit         26.2     27.6        2.21           24.0         1.75        0."         0.4
59       Otlematwtud proadcts            33.6     33.6        1.37           18.U0        1.4         0.29        0.26
m1 mu?i UID 1cvrm
6        Petrolumb                                                         100.0O        15."3       15.93      13.93
33       etrolm batyatlwe                                                    93.40        4.86        4.64        4.64
_ariff                   IS~ 18.2  18.6
Proamufs eCawo,0vmau                                100.0                       99.9       49.80       41.n7
L #  m  ta £ bawr          a od    .3 prn_tt 3   palt do t lower mitm  In b  dits.
Booms tuld lwk ataf intimtam.



- 57 -
ANNEX VI
T-6
Table 6: MXCO - SRUCYTM5 OF OFFICIAL REFUGE  PRICES. 1986. 1987
January 1. 1986   Dec_Wr 31. 1986    March 18, 1987         ugust 18. 1987
No. of     2 of   UO. of      S of    %D* of      S of      lb. of      X of
Tariff   Pkod. Tariff         Prod.  Tariff       Prod.    Tariff        Prod.
Positions         Posltlon            Positions             Positions
me. of Tariff
Ptostouw        8,091     100.0    8,178     100.0    8,161       100.0       8,161      100.0
Tarilff Positions:
itbout OtPo   6,900       80.7    7,218      84.6     7,442      87.1        8,108       98.1
with RPs       1,191      19.3      960      1S.4       719       12.9          52        1.9
Free       1,095      13.8      939      12.9       700      11.0           52        1.9
Controlled    96       5.5       21       2.5        19        1.9           0          0
Sources SICOFI and World Sask Staff Calculatilons



- 58 -
ANMIEX VI:
T-7
Table 7:  MEXIPO - COINCIDENCE OF DOMESTIC PRICE CONTROLS AND IMPORT
RESTRICTIONSLMARCH, 1987
(Figures are x of 1983 production) I/
Price Controls Managed by
SECOFI 2/           PEMEX      CONASUPO         Total 3/
(wl price
Regime                 ----- -  --                                  controls)
SPC     RGC      RGF
Free         5.5      5.5      1.6       1.0          0.12            14.8
Controlled
w/ Permits  4.4      0.6     3.1       20.6          3.87            32.1
w/ Quotas   0.3      0.0     0.1        0.0           .09              .4
Totals      10.2      6.1     4.8       21.6          4.08            47.3
Source: World Bank staff computations and SECOFI.
1/  Based on a matching of items fiith domestic price controls to those with
import restrictions.  Weights are based on the methodology used for Trade
Policy I.  Whenever items with price controls are of narrower coverage
than the nearest corresponding BTN code with production weight,
appropriate adjustments are made based on extraneous information.
2/ SPC = Strict price controls
RGC - Registered Controlled
RGF - Registered
3/ Horizontal totals may be greater than the totals reported in column 7
since some products are controlled by both by SECOFI and CONASUPO. One
relatively important category of domestic reference prices (about 1.5% of
production) was excluded in the summary above, although it is incladed in
the total coverage of price controls.)



- 59 -
ANNEX VI
T-8
Table 8: MEXICO - COINCIDENCE OF DOMESTIC PRICE CONTROLS AND ORPs
(until November 1986)
SPC          RGC         RGF
With QRPs                           .26           2.5        1.7
SPC - Strict price controls
RGC - Registered controlled
RGF -  Registered
Source: World Bank Staff Calculations.



- 60 -
ANNEX VI
T-9
Table 9:  MEXICO - COINCIDENCE OF DONESTIC PRICE CONTROLS AND EXPORT
CONTROLS,'MARCH 1987
(Percentage of 1983 production)
SECOFI
Type of                                   _       PEMEX     CONASUPO
Trade Control       SPC       RGC      RGF
Free                5.1       2.8      4.5         0.0         0.5
Controlled          5.1       3.3      0.4        21.5         3.6
(Export controls, without petroleum and derivatives, cover about 17.1%
of total production.)
Source: World Bank Staff Calculations and SECOFI.



- 61 -
.ANNEX VI
T-10
Table 10: MEXICO: STRUCTURE OF CONTROLLED NON-OIL MERCHANDISE
EXPORTS AS OF WARCH 18X
(Percent of Total Exports)
Sector                         Number of         Value of       % of
Tariff       1983 Exports      Total
Positions          (OS$M)       Exports
Total Merchandise ExDorts        3,054                           100.0
Controlled Non-Oil Exports         201             2,378         11.1
(Mining, Agriculture,            140             1,394          6.6
and P4sheries)
(Nanufacturing)                   43               265          1.2
(Other-endangered                 18                 1          0.0
species, etc.)
Oil Derivatives                     31               718          3.4
Source: Secretareat of Commerce and Industrial Development.



Table 11: MEXICO - EFFECTIVE RATES OF PROTECTION IN SELECTED INDUSTRIES
July    December Oct-Dec
1960      1970     1980      1984     1985      1985       1986
CON{SUMER GOODS
Meat and Milk Products                 195.7      27.2      94.0     70.0      110.0      2.0       -53.0
Wheat Products                         -23.2      43.7    -39.0    -73.0       -38.0    -51.0        -54.0
Other Foods                             16.7      25.2      28.0    -45.0      -21.0    -37.0       -47.0
Beverages                               45.4       1.6    -20.0    -50.0      -46.0    -45.0        -54.0
Clothing                                38.6      39.6    119.0      39.0       26.0     -3.0       -30.0
Soaps and Detergents                     0.6      38.1      17.0    -35.0       10.0    -21.0       -30.0
Cosmetics                               65.0      92.9                           -        -            -
Pharmiceuticals                         10.0     229.1      30.0    -70.0     -48.0    -57.0        -29.0
INTERMEDIATES
Textiles                                32.8      44.4       7.0    -49.0        3.0    -25.0        -69.0
Other Textiles                          50.2      -2.1      14.0    -29.0     -23.0    -49.0        -56.0
Wood Products                           35.0      12,2     64.0      -3.0      -9.0    -31.0        -45.0
Rubber Products                         52.9      14.5     98.0      71.0       5i.0     10.0       -19.0
Paper Products                          95.4      21.3     96.0    -53.0      -25.0    -45.0        -42.0
Basic Chestcals                         48.5      61.3    121.0    106.0         6.0    -12.0        -5.0
Synthetic Fibres, Plastics              17.2     252.3    250.0    290.0        49.0      2.0       -20.0
Fertilizers                             10.9    1026.4    -48.0    -79.0      -51.0    -58.0        -69.0
Other Chemical Industries               72.1      97.4      82.0     68.0      87.0      15.0       -12.0
Nonmetallic Mineral Products             3.3       5.5      31.0    -14.0     -31.0    -46.0        -51.0
Basic Metals                            71.7      22.9      38.0     80.0      -8.0    -21.0        -34.0
DURABLE CONSUMER AND CAPITAL GOODS
Metal Products                          49.5      45.6      57.0     87.0      43.0       0.0         10.0
Machinery                               44.7      66.8     65.0      35.0       27.0     -6.0       -11.0
Electrical Machinery and Aparatus      48.4       87.5    238.0      70.0       4.0    -29.0         -3.0
Transport Equipment                    49.1       90.0     50.0    -11.0        12.0     10.0          5.0
Automobiles and Ports                 254.7      111.4    300.0    157.0       93.0      74.0        22.0
Source:  Instttuto Mexicano de Comerc1i6 Extertor (1MCE()



Table 12: mao~D - PRIxCIAL smwm ANussw Fmm gawz nme cm aiw wow. 1977-6
(13 MU1Unn Equileut)
1977       1978       1979      1980        1981       19RI       1963       1984      1965      1986     1966        197
L    Total Naemullaw  oRqxta          4,649.8    6,063.1    8,796.2   15,37.5  19,419.6    21,22.7   22,312.1   24,196.0   21,866.4 15,759.3    6,857.5    6,469.6
A. Petr~olam and Petro1aun
bond eozte                       1,037.3    1,863.2    3,975.0   10,441.3  14,573.3    16,477.2   16,017.2   16,601.3   14,766.8  6,258.5    2,603.2    3,514.4
BO Thta Nen-Ntrolanu
?hrdmuL"a grntt                  3,612.5    4,199.9    4,842.7    4,690.9   4,863       4,752.5    6,294.9    7,594.7    7,099.6  9,500.8    3,984.4    4,955.2
- Nterlis
(Agrloaalit, Livmbod
odvsal 1ad)                     1,312.9    1,501.7    1,778.7    1,527.9   1,480.9     1,233.3  1,188,5      1,460.8    1,3228  2,107.0    1,165.9      873.9
Nivanrl (xclubxlU
petwieso)                ~~~216.9    212,8      337.8      511.9     677.3       501.6      323.7      539.1      310.3    509.7      195.6     231.9
)m,jfecttwem                     2,082.7    2,483.4    2,726.2    2,651.0   2,688.2     3,017.6    4,573,8    5,594.8    5,266.6  6,841    2,622.0    3,849.6
Total lhrdiuula  IREoZt           5,706.5    7,917.5   11,979.7   18,832.3  23,929.6    14,437.0    8,551.0   11,254.3   13,4603  11,384.6    5,083.1    4,577.4.
PubUIc                          2,098.5    2,916.1    3,994.3    7,106.4   8,821.9     5,400.5    4,363    4,789.7    4,354.1  3,217,5         0.a.        Mae.
Private                         3,606.0    5,001.4    7,9B5.4   11,726,0  15,107.7     9,036.5    4,244.7    6,464.6    9,106.2  8,167.1       noa.       R.e.
IL  Tcawjaa (Net)                      470.       602.0      750.5      626.2     188.5       618.2    1,183.2    1,307.1    1,700,0  1,460.0      615.2      866.9
M. BnAwr T?mai±somon (Not)              714.9      731.8      673.5      592.7     933.8       183.6       37.3      19.0       400.0    1004)na.                ne
IV. Net Ino    frem TraiwsontLian
serviam C'lu.MN  Or'               344.6     452.3       637.6      77.4     976.3       851.3      818.4    1,155.3    1,262.0  1,356.0*       n.         ns.a
Saurce: Rax de Mexico, Secretariat of ProSpamirsi and BugMtg
* preIIml*wy Bo"scc



Table 13  IMItCO -  AWAC        RD EXPORTS, 19754B7
(U8$ d111  Oqulualelt)
1973    1976   1977   1978   1979  1980   1981   1962   1983   1984   1985   1986*         1986         1967
Mamfacturd Bports, Total               1325   1,730  2.125  2.574  2,936 3.383  3.427  3,366  5,448  6,543  6,685  7,609            2,274        3,233
Food* terae,  aud Tobacco                 455      531    636    737    799   770    679    707    725    822    747    953            279          40
Teut11s, Clothi, aul lOAtber Goda   166            182    180    189    209   201    181   10    191    275    207    342              73         15
lbo and Wod Product                        26       36     Sl     73      72    S8      59     52     82      98     91    107          25           44
por, Ptlftiu t ad Pb1lls g                 40      62      64     67      74    86     S1      78     75      97     99    139.         31           40
Petroleum Uezivatlve                       26       16     39     25      96   427    611    261    738  1,244  1.351    639           216          200
l!etuodaelcale                             16        8      S     64    113   117    133    116    136    161    107        87          27           29
*Chi6alt                                  205     236    241    250    335   395    457    441    628    756    676    $30             265          314
Plastic ad Rubber Products                  7        9     16     20      20    21      23     26     44      65     S0     80          1s           38
fwIbtalllc Ebworal Products                62       82    140    156    136   129    125    140    210    269    315    376            113          135
I.ui. ferrous metals                       48       54     92    137    132    71       64    112    319    378    246    447          117          17
Usac MeI-furto_   etals                   123      87      85    136    146   121       70    378    562    510    403    474          122          1"
Metal Produets,  aceblnery a   Equlp.    326       399    542    680    755   938    894    868  1,663  2,075  2,300  3,051            228          42
Otber   utdsries                           22       28     32     40      47    48      50     36     75      74     91     84           0           30
* Preltoay Ratiates
sooes Rwco de Neuico
I l



- 65 -
Sse14  n=  -   ft hSO  STCTfA  ADJUS14' E
-a   -
..2  umou
6* ,
~_ .   *~W                        Jiul          _sis.A
*  _~st81w  us4m  t_
roftnlin41 ftsum
c.uu                     xs~e _ou
k&afaelq    ~~~~dgg  se6q
.I               S in_
: .     .              s..
qusl  j          jIa.      . _
_ r c-- - ~ ftp.  thual fuV
d                    t
S_                O*t _  d          1d CU
bmu2du     Vs   . t.As"*Iead Tas -    4rwaftaew
SseI _S ~. .           vaa.          NslC
|___ r-__ l
_t            U~~~~~~~~~~a _-"I
du"            3l.ewel
_ _ _ _     F~
I~~~-mIutA"wsft
-w2a       Gwfi M    nf"lma     real
"M                  M" cocup~~I
tminle 



-66-                       ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 
Figure I
LONG TERM  TREND IN GOP GROWrH RATE
4:: ,-.                           . ._
7a                                           n I    X
_4. 
3
-1                                              I
-2
484M ~ ~~F so    sol2s                 g
RAT10 Of NO*OIL ExP/00p TOGO
aX ^Xrtc"/
-3       ...... 
-4
_,
RATI  OF NO I  EXPORZQTS TO GOP
';T\~~ ( "xAPX 



- 67 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
INFWA0b TRENDS
.NILUL cI&ANUS tIN Cpl. lUSatg01
iso
110 -                                           ._
30-
20 I-O
1:-        .,. I    , ,  ,,, 
VTMLY WrA
Figure 4
STRUCTURE OF TAX REVWENUES
i4'& PERMNT Cf GOP)
13-
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
25-
3a -
|^   ~ ~~~Fiue  4
as do or an 09 J0 Jt ;2 ;S Ar AS Z0? iO Z  go Ot 02 OS 04 OS 00
0 SCL TCUR4O TAX RAXENUES



- 68 -
AUE VII
Figure 5                                   Page 3 ofeS
NON-INTEREST PUB.SECTOR EXPENDITURES
AIS ptCeWT o so
32.
33
23
27 
23
24
233
22
201                                / '5                           >
11
14
13
12
IIS        I? as     70 71 72 73 7  71 7 77  73 n    II oo   33 14         a I'
(NONIItI.CURUX. + cAP.cxP.}/w#
Figure 6
PUBLIC SECTOR BORROWING REQUIREMENTS
Ul PERCENT CC COP
13
13
13                                                    /   I;    47    6 ?I7     I8    38  
|  12]                  41L    K
-                                                     IW
ULr   l-w-r 
5        *.w*r*rr
4       ar? Ot Zt0O   +U0
3 ~    ~     a      u    n.ca



- 69 -
ANNEX VII
Figure 7                  .           Page 4 of 5
OPERATIONAL DEFICIT OF PUBUC SECTOR
ADU T  tO;INLnt OC". Of INlAYIT
tI 'I
7X-                                                    V   I'
I_A
_4 I  ,  ,I '    '                     '    '
lll o ? ;I 5o 690 ?1 ?:n 2JOJ  JJ 74      J9 800  10   9010
Figure a
RATIO Of DOMESTIC D)EBT TO GDP
21
2-
is
-s
14                                                       V
?I l I       I  I  I     II   2   I   3 I    4
111171H7?s2774177,u7as.u                                   g. . .A
tt S " 0   01 oG 0 u                    S
RATIO O  DOPvETI DEB  TOGD



-70 -ANNEX VIT
Figure 9                 .                Page 5 of S
DOMESTIC DEBT AND MONETARY BASE
ON 0WtSI lu tlu  PRICS)
|S 40   -........,_
_l .
tSO
330 -     0     o        0      0       z      "       S       s      lf
506
2501
205 
77 73    7A               II      12     83      3        5      I
0   UACSC: OCUT                  4  MONct"EY Ic
Figure 10
MONETARY GRO'WTH FROM DOMESTIC SOURCE
140 -
130 -I
so
go            I                                          I.
70  rt1  n2    74  75 73 77  7t  71  30  81  12  03  4+  0   33
QI1Aa1W mATA



NOTES



MAP SECTION



UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
NX   Q   <       oEWs                                     .,~Nogles- 
l                 F~~~~~Hrmosillo    V       t 
"AJA  - bmOu  
-                                         Ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ihuahua   aPI
8AJA                                                              C   A A  H UI I.
CA  IFORNIA
Patro
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Son                                     uet>  l t A$ N2 6
Pazac~DU          , N  C          .   A    AS-
I-
..zatIan  '-;S.                            SANA
NA ARI    /I    I SCfEA
Z\huaten.
gtmis_   O    m          200t0           400     Sao
IAL FS 6          le0          2X0          3OO
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00                                                                                 PimrtoV0iio, *4 G~ doIag
e*w_a_ _rzr v   *el_r              ~~~~~~~~~~~110,
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1,C                                                                   4 



Ibo                                         -                                       ..                            IBRD 20
3'
M EXICO
t  : - \.                                                , l,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Notionl capital
I.f.  .           .                                                         j5i  5tate ctat(an            arto     heUadqutr)
a    Principl cities or htwn
4  NUSt?@                                                                -     Divide hiops
j    -  i                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Select nuinroad
> t r t 8?'. R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alIroeas
/CF       t1S                                                                     Rivers
N UE N  Af; O   .                                                              Prinpal airporh
L  -.                                            --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State bowdwiess
AS   Matamaros                            i~~~~~~~~~~ntenational boundaries
t                       9Aitamir_
.  ~secvg   ~nv Attampica
ftJANA@  ~% f,~  ~rt RAC UtG MALA
ma                                                                                                        Y i   f >   w        uCAJAi  4 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~rzrr                                                             CotObc                              ZUNSLI.20.
'\'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Top'HODUAS___ X
*~_ / 7                                                                               Cavpenclino      oS \ uex ecra J    y \.< D BEelZ8
)AN-   ..*C   '                                                   ?.45         \    4         CAMPEC_if              etma
-R~~~~~~~~~~ --
'SUERIERO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~   CEXlE      S



