Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4019 
Operation Name 
EMPLOYMENT, ENTREPRENEURSHIP& SOCIAL SERVICE 
DELIVERY PROGRAMMATIC POLICY LOAN 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P112765 
Borrower(s) 
 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
July 10, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
Date of Board Approval 
September 16, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Poland has made impressive progress towards creating a modern, market-based economy, 
and has successfully managed its integration into the European Union (EU) since accession 
in 2004
.
Recent macroeconomic performance has been favorable, with strong output growth and 
a
rapid decline in unemployment combined with low inflation and external imbalances. 
Meanwhile, buoyant tax revenues have led to a decline in the fiscal deficit. Growth has been 
built on a vibrant private sector which now accounts for three-quarters of the economy. High 
growth in domestic consumption reflects the rapid increase in living standards for most Polish 
citizens. Likewise, poverty levels have decreased and are now concentrated in rural areas and 
among the long-term unemployed. But the reform momentum has slowed down following EU 
accession, and the strong growth over the last few years reflects to a significant extent a rebound 
from the economic downturn in the earlier part of the decade combined with a favorable external 
environment.  
 
The constraints to continued rapid EU convergence are becoming increasingly visible
.
Notably, infrastructure development has been lagging and bottlenecks are emerging in the labor 
market
—exacerbated by outward migration, including of skilled and highly educated workers—
fueling acceleration in wage growth that is adding to inflationary pressures and increasing the 
external current account deficit. The business environment is hampered by excessive regulation 
and high costs. Lack of fiscal space, combined with technical and administrative constraints, has 
also contributed to a slower rate of absorption of EU funds. Environmental commitments and the 
challenges posed by global warming at the same time call for further efforts to improve energy 
efficiency. 
 
The key challenge now will be to strengthen the business environment while enhancing the 
quality and efficiency of the public sector
.
Streamlining of business regulations, improvements 
in public-private partnership frameworks, privatization in strategic sectors, and enhanced 
efficiency of the judiciary sector are needed to maintain the ongoing stimulus in private 
investment. Along the road to adopting comprehensive EU standards and practices, further 
strengthening of public administration capacity and reforming public finances will be essential. 
Page  2
Poland intends to increase the quality of public services (including the quality and relevance to 
the labor market of the skills of graduates from the education system) and make room for 
financing of critical infrastructure and other investments while further lowering the high tax 
burden, not least on labor. To this end, the government will strive to improve the efficiency of 
social and pension spending and the targeting of social assistance programs. The development of 
an effective medium-term expenditure framework, consistent with continued lowering of the 
fiscal deficit and reduced public debt servicing costs, and increased performance-orientation in 
the management of public resources are key complements in this regard. The program of the new 
Government augurs well for addressing these critical challenges, although concrete strategies and 
policies in many areas remain to be fully articulated. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The programmatic policy lending program would support the government’s plans to stimulate 
productive employment, encourage entrepreneurship and SME development, improve social 
service delivery, and strengthen the management and longer-term sustainability of public 
finances.  
 
The program will specifically help to: 
ƒ
Ensure a continued gradual reduction in the fiscal deficit and improve the quality of 
public finances through a lowering of the tax burden and increased emphasis on 
productive spending and institutional reforms in Public Finance Management in order to 
make the budget more transparent, predictable over the medium-term, and performance-
oriented 
ƒ
Improve the utilization of labor resources, including reaching the Lisbon target of 70 
percent employment/population ratio and reducing the incidence of long term 
unemployment in order to foster income growth and combat social exclusion. 
ƒ
Reform some of the incomplete components of the pension design, specifically oriented 
toward lowering pension expenditures, reducing or eliminating disincentives for early 
withdrawal from the labor force, and generating additional revenue by making the 
pension system more attractive to workers and employers. 
ƒ
Remove regulatory barriers to enterprise start-up and operations, increase private 
investment into the productive enterprise sector, and offer for sale various remaining state 
owned enterprises for transfer to private owners while increasing corporate 
competitiveness and efficiency through private sector-led growth. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank has been a close partner of Poland in supporting its successful 
transformation and EU integration
,
both by helping design and implement policies and 
institutional reform, and addressing the social costs of transition. The focus of the World Bank 
during the 1990s and early 2000s was on private sector development, strengthening social 
support services, rebuilding basic infrastructure, and protecting the environment.  Working 
closely with successive governments, World Bank support has been provided through a 
combination of analytical and financial services and technical cooperation (TC).  Since World 
Page  3
Bank lending to Poland started in 1990, financial commitments total US$6.4 billion for 45 
projects. Currently, eight investment projects are under implementation in support of roads 
rehabilitation and modernization, port improvements, energy efficiency, river basin flood 
prevention, and social services in rural areas.  Recent analytical and advisory activities includes 
studies on growth, employment and living standards; the fiscal framework for growth (public 
expenditure and institutional review); Doing Business and investment climate assessments; a 
knowledge economy assessment; legal barriers to contract enforcement; and regional economic 
and public finance reports. 
 
The World Bank has been adjusting its partnership model in Poland to reflect the 
country’s major progress and evolving needs.
 The nature of Poland’s challenges and reform 
agenda has changed considerably since the earlier days of World Bank involvement.  The EU 
and its institutions are now Poland’s main external partners, to which the World Bank is 
committed to play a supporting role.  Poland also has access to considerable external financing, 
including large volumes of EU Structural and Cohesion Funds on a grant basis. In this context, 
the nature of the relationship has moved to a more selective engagement, with more flexibility to 
respond to Poland’s priorities and increased focus on areas where the World Bank can offer the 
most value added. At the same, support for broader policy reform continues to be most 
effectively provided through bundling of lending and technical cooperation as this helps to 
strengthen policy coordination and consistency and build consensus around reforms.  
 
Following a period of limited cooperation with the previous government, the new 
government and the Bank have recently focused on defining a more strategic re-
engagement in core policy areas
.
The Bank has renewed its dialogue with several line 
ministries under the new government, and there is widespread interest in technical cooperation 
and knowledge sharing in key areas of planned reforms. At the same time, the Bank has made it 
clear that on its part the desired program of analytical and advisory services could only be 
financed in the context of a significant lending program or alternatively through cost-sharing and 
fee-for-service arrangements. The latter, however, while initiated at the sub-national level, would 
take time to roll out more broadly, and the government indicated that it believed that the former, 
bundled approach would be more effective. 
 
While external market conditions have largely normalized, since the sharp downturn in 
late 2007 and early 2008, for emerging markets like Poland with strong fundamentals, 
the 
Bank’s loan pricing reform has led to renewed interest in borrowing from and policy dialogue 
with the Bank from several of the new EU member states. In recent weeks, Poland—like other 
countries in the region—has raised sizeable financing in international markets,
1
but the Ministry 
of Finance reiterated its interest in a quick-disbursing, policy based budget support loan from the 
Bank in the amount of Euro 700 million, both to support the government’s reform program in 
key areas and as part of a rational and prudent debt management strategy. From the Bank’s 
perspective, this provides a conduit for a continued partnership to support government reform 
plans and develop new lines of business. It is also part of the Bank’s key role in international 
knowledge transfer (a global public good) to various clients in the region and beyond and an 
important demonstration of the Bank’s evolving upper-middle income country agenda (the 
Page  4
knowledge and learning role was identified by President Zoellick as one of the Bank’s six 
strategic priorities). 
 
The Bank has engaged in close consultations with both the Fund and the European Commission, 
who are supportive of continued Bank policy lending as long as it support further restructuring of 
public finances and fiscal consolidation and is fully consistent with EU commitments, including 
the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines, Poland’s Convergence Program and Council Opinions 
on this, and EC assessments of Poland’s National Lisbon Strategy implementation. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed Euro 700 million Policy Loan would be the first in a programmatic series of three 
policy loans within a total lending envelope of up to Euro 2.5 billion. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank will work closely with the Ministry of Finance and sector Ministries (Ministry of 
Treasury, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, 
Ministry of National Education) to monitor and assess reform progress and impacts during the 
life of the Program
.
Monitoring and evaluation will be supported by the various Ministries as 
well as budgetary, legislative and economic data provided by the authorities and verified in 
official disclosures, directives and regulations. Baseline and updated data will be provided by the 
respective specialized agencies for the pertinent functions. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Risks Mitigating 
Factors 
Macroeconomic risks 
 
1. Fiscal targets through 2010 are realistic 
assuming timely implementation of the 
announced structural policy measures. 
 
Although the European Commission on 
June 11, 2008 recommended closing 
Poland’s Excessive Deficit Procedure 
(imposed in 2004), it has a less optimistic 
forecast for 2009 than the Government. 
Tax reforms will enhance the growth 
potential of Poland’s economy, but there is 
a
need for budget prudence on the 
expenditure side taking into account 
mounting spending pressures. 
 
2.  The markets could react to Poland’s 
request to the Bank:  either positively, as 
the Bank is giving a seal of approval of the 
1. The Bank’s involvement and cooperation with 
the Government on the implementation of its 
reform program would facilitate the establishment 
of clear spending priorities in such areas as 
infrastructure, health, and education, and 
intensifying wage pressure in the public sector. 
The operation would thus provide support for 
maintaining expenditure targets, focusing on the 
key structural reform measures to achieve this. 
 
Overall risk assessment: Moderate 
 
2.  Poland in recent weeks has raised sizeable 
financing in international markets at attractive 
spreads, thus demonstrating market confidence in 
Page  5
reform program; or negatively, if the 
request is misconstrued as due to economic 
difficulties and thus translate into less 
favorable country perceptions.   
its economic prospects.  This loan should signal 
Bank support for the new reform measures 
proposed by the Tusk Government.  In addition, 
the Bank will work with the authorities to manage 
communications with the markets and ensure the 
basis for the request is fully understood. 
 
Overall risk assessment: Low 
 
Political risks 
 
3.  The first loan of the programmatic 
series is based on the Government’s efforts 
at fiscal consolidation and reforms already 
implemented in the context of Poland’s 
Convergence Programs, even though, due 
to the timing of the budget cycle, the 
Government of PM Donald Tusk, formed 
after the elections of October 2007, did not 
have as much opportunity as it would have 
liked to introduce major changes in the 
draft budget for 2008.  
 
3.  The Government has restarted the structural 
reform agenda which had stalled under the 
previous Government. Economic policy 
objectives in the medium-term were set by the 
Government in the March 2008 Convergence 
Program. The European Commission earlier this 
month recommended closing Poland’s Excessive 
Deficit Procedure, and the IMF endorsed the 
Government’s fiscal consolidation plan in its 
April 2008 Article IV consultation.     
 
Overall risk assessment: Moderate/Low 
Institutional risks  
 
4. Policy formulation tends to be 
fragmented and technical/administrative 
capacity in some Ministries is relatively 
weak. 
 
4. The proposed loan would help support policy 
coordination and build further technical/ 
administrative capacity through the Bank 
analytical and advisory services. 
 
Overall risk assessment: Substantial 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The Operation’s design includes objectives with social benefits for all segments of the 
population, particularly with respect to the social sector reforms and mitigation of environmental 
liabilities.
 
On the environmental front, there is no foreseen impact emanating from the reform 
program and Poland has adequate environmental controls in place. Poland’s environmental 
legislation and regulation is reinforced by EU environmental directives, including the EU’s 
guidelines on adoption of environmental assessments at the planning and programming level 
(June 2001) and the EU’s Environmental Liabilities Directive setting out liability for damage to 
properties and natural resources (April 2007). Under past privatization programs, the government 
instituted procedures still in effect, in coordination with the pertinent sector ministerial 
authorities, to conduct pre-privatization environmental audits to determine the existence and 
scope of any such liabilities of companies in state hands, manifested as contamination on real 
Page  6
property or other conduits. The quantification of such liabilities is then used as part of the overall 
valuation of the state enterprise for purposes of negotiating a fair purchase price with the private 
party. Private sector bidders of enterprises will be subject to the environmental provisions 
embodied in Polish and EU law once they acquire previous state assets in the process of 
ownership transfer. The labor market, education, and health reforms envisaged under the lending 
program should yield broad-based social benefits, including among vulnerable groups. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Thomas Blatt Laursen 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5243+8037 
Fax: (48) 22 520 80 01 
Email: tlaursen@worldbank.org 
Location: Warsaw, Poland (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
