Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo"t No- 8637
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIRST AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 988-EGT)
MAY 14, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00     -           LE  2.55
LE 1.00    _            US$ 0.39
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
BM          -           Bank Misr
DIB         -           Development Industrial Bank
ERR         -           Economic Rate of Return
FRR         -           Financial Rate of Return
GOE         -           Government of Egypt
IDA         -           International Development Association
INP         -           Institute of National Planning
PB          -           Participating Bank
PBDAC       -           Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit



For OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WOLD LBANK
Washtngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
offie i Dnecg<n,ewwa
Opnrata IVwAhIta
May 14, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Egypt First Agroindustries
Project (Credit 988-EGT)    -
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Egypt - First Agroindustries Project
(Credit 988-EGT)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodation.



FOR OFFICIA USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION RMORT
EGYPT: FRS AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 98-EGT)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE . . . .  .  .  ........................... .
EVALUATION SUMKARY  . . .................... .                         ii
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
Background . .   . ..   . .    * . ..     . * * * *. . * * * * *  1
The Project and Its Objectives . . . ... . . . . . . . .       1
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . .  . .. .       2
Project Implementation and Results . . . . . . . . . . .       4
Technical Assistance, Training & Institution Building  .       8
Project Sustainability . . . . . . .    . . .. ... ..  .      10
Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .   . .   . . .  10
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . .    . ...... . .        11
Conclusions.. . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .                   12
Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE . . .        14
PART III  STATISTICAL INFOMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
ATTACENT S  ClOMETS FROM TIE  BORR8IEER. . . . . . . . .         39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bmnk authorization.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIRST AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 988-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First
Agroindustries Project in Egypt, for which Credit 988-EGT in the amount of
US$45.0 million was approved on March 11, 1980. The credit was closed on
June 30, 1988, two and one-half years behind schedule after cancelling of
US$1.2 million. The last disbursement was made on December 22, 1988.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) has been
prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III, of
the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region. The Bank sent the
Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II, but no reply
was received.
Preparation of this PCR started during IDA's rinal supervision
mission of the project in May, 1988, and is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Development Credit Agreement; the Project Agreements between
IDA and implementing agencies; the Subsidiary Agreements between the
borrower and implementing agencies; supervision reports; progress reports
provided by implementing agencies; correspondence between IDA and the
borrower; and internal IDA memoranda.



PROJ=C  2X=10TIN REPOR
EGYPT
FIRST AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 988-EGT)
VyLA=ION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
The major objectives of the project were:
a) to assist in the modernization of and expansion
of processing and marketing of basic agricultural
products by introducing improved/new technology and
provide foreign exchange needed for investments; sn(d
supporting Government s "open door' policy;
b)   to initiate steps to forge links between
financial institutions and agroindustries, and to
strengthen the capabilities of the four participating
banks in identifying , appraising, and supervising
investments in agroindustries; and
e) to improve the quality of meat supplied to
Egypt s most populous urban centers. introduce better
sanitary practices. and reduce pollution caused by the
old and unhygienic abattoirs.
TMR.04LRW       BITER
The project partially achieved one of its main objectives, namely,
the modernization and expansion of agroindustries through investments by the
private sector in small- and medium-size enterprises, and the promotion of a
more competitive environment. The construction of new abattoirs at Cairo grA
Alexandria contributed to improving public health and the environment.
The credit component faced major problems in connection with the
foreign exchange risk of borrowing in foreign currencies by small firms which
primarily cater to the domestic market. This resulted in an untenable debt
service for many enterprises. a drastic fall in the demand for funds, and some
deterioration in the quality of portfolios of participating banks. These
factors would severely limit the viability of agroindustrial lending in the
Bank's on-going and future lending operations. Although the foreign exchange
risk was not fully anticipated at appraisal, efforts were made by IDA to
address the problem at project and policy levels. No definitive solutions were
found during the life of the project.
The abattoirs encountered procurement, managerial. and financial
problems. Procurement delays and the lack of spare parts beyond the initial
period agro*id with the                     iuiii/edL'.,   eii@d sievs;l xtaan.ionS of the
closing date. Management problems were endemic, and capacity utilization,
until recently, remained low. Also, project design failed to adequately
evaluate the concept of a central abattoir for Cairo, a city of 13 million.
Resistance by butchers and the lack of commitment to close old abattoirs
contributed to low utilization and poor financial performance. which was
exacerbated by failure to raise slaughtering and other fees. As a result, the
target of cost recovery is not attainable: whereas the Alexandria abattoir
could meet its operating expenses and part of the investment costs, the Cairo
abattoir must depend on continued Government subsidy to cover its operating
costs.



- 111 -
Institution building met only with limited success due to the
reluctance to borrow for financing technical assistance and training. At
eompletion. participating banks achieved some institutional progress, but not
to the extent envisaged. In addition, the information systems of all banks.
and the financial management of some. were inadequate.
AAIUSTATNARTT.TT
The exchange risk situation adversely affected the financial
performance of sub-borrowers and participating banks, and curtailed the demand
tor credit. These factors seriously jeopardize the sustainability of
agroindustrial credit in the Bank's lending operations.
While the Alexandria abattoir has achieved financial viability in
terms of covering its operation and maintenance costs. the Cairo abattoir car.
not meet even its operating costs, and it is unlikely it would become
financially supporting in the foreseeable future. Both abattoirs must depend
on Government support for future survival.
Overall, the project is expected to continue to generate a modest
level of financial and social benefits over its economic life.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS TEARNED
The major lessons learned are as follows:
(1) Credit operations should not be viewed in isolation, but
within the wider context of the financial sector and the macroeconomic
setting;
(2) The design of a single abattoir for large cities like Cairo
should be more critically evaluated. not only in terms of economies of scale.
but also by considering social and political aspects;
(3) The need to evaluate economic rates of return for medium and
large projects in order to determine project viability under potential
elimination of controls and distortions; and
(4) When project design proves to be inadequate or inappropriate
during implementation, supervision should propose remedies or changes, or
introduce meaningful amendments.



EGYPT
FIRST AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 988-EGT)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Agroindustries Project
Credit No.:        988-EGT
RVP Unitt          ENENA
Sector:            Agriculture
Subsector:         Agroindustry
2.       Background
2.01 The project was identified and prepared by Bank staff in 1978, in
cooperation with Egyptian authorities, appraised in 1979, and became effective
in December, 1980.   Through the early 1970s, the Egyptian economy was
characterized by extensive Government controls over imports, investments and
prices; a stable but overvalued currency; high import duties; import and consumer
subsidies; and predominance of the public sector. In 1974 Egypt adopted an "open
door' strategy, whose impact was being felt at the time this project was
conceived. This strategy aimed to modernize the economy, make it more market-
oriented, reduce production and price controls and subsidies, and provide a more
active role for the private sector. Impl-mentation of the policy resulted in
liberalization of the exchange control teagime, a gradual devaluation of the
Egyptian pound, adoption of a new law to encourage private investment and greater
autonomy to public sector enterprises.
2.02 Through the end of the previous decade, Egypt's agroindustry subsector
was undeveloped and based on outmoded technology.  With the new policy of
encouraging private enterprise and decentralization, there arose an increasing
interest among private entrepreneurs to move into new areas such as fruits and
vegetables, poultry, dairy and cold storage, which were not subject to price
controls.   However,  investment funds available to private agroindustries,
especially medium-and small-scale, were very limited, while the potential demand
was rapidly increasing.   There was no bank which specialized in financing
agroindustries as such, although a number of banks provided limited financing
to agroindustries as a part of their broader lending programs.
2.03 The Cairo and Alexandria abattoirs, which were built around the turn of
the century, did not meet adequate sanitary and environmental standards: meat
handling and distribution was less than sanitary, and effluents were discharged
into the Nile and the Neditterranean.
3.    The Project and Its Objectives
3.01 This $45 million credit was comprised, in effect, of two projects:
a)    a credit component for $19 million for on-lending to small-and
medium-scale agroindustries through three participating banks or
PBs, namely Development Industrial Bank (DIB), Bank Misr (SU) and
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC); and
b)    construction of two new, modern slaughterhouses or abattoirs in
Cairo and Alexandria, to replace existing slaughterhouses.  The
original allocation for both slaughterhouses was US$13.7 milion,
but due to the expansion of the Alexandria slaughterhouses, increases
in the costs of civil works and equipment, and the need to provide



- 2 -
adequato spare parts, the allocation was later raised to US$23.5
million. To support the above activities, $1.7 million was provided
for technical assistance and training. The project also included
studies for the replacement of the main fruit and vegetables markets
in the above two cities. However, this item was later cancelled at
the request of the Government.
3.02        The major project abgkie xues were:
a)    to assist in the modernization and expansion of processing and
marketing of basic agricultural products, to make available better
quality products and reduce post harvest losses, thereby contributing
to increased incomes and better nutrition;
b)    to initiate steps to forge links between financial institutions and
agroindustries, and to strengthen PB capabilities in identifying
appraising and supervising agroindustries investments; and
c)    to improve the quality of meat supplied to Egypt's two most populous
urban centers, introduce better sanitary practices, and reduce
pollution associated with the old unhygienic slaughterhouses.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01        The two abattoirs were designed to replace obsolete and unhygienic
facilities, therefore no problems were foreseen of the adequacy of business.
Weaknesses in managements at the governorates and veteritsry departments were
anticipated, to address which improvements and strengthening of operating
practices and management structure were designed and agreed at appraisal,
including overall control by an operating manager at each unit, technical
assistance in operations and a comprehensive training program.
4.02        The concept of one major metropolitan slaughterhouse in each city
was considered to be a continuation of the prevailing system; and it 48s
stipulated that the old slaughterhouses be closed down. Because economies of
scale favored a single central slaughterhouse, the alternative of a number of
satellite slaughterhouses in each city was not thoroughly investigated. Another
alternative, viz that of locating the slaughter in producing areas, was rejected,
because the existing system was well entrenched, and due to projected higher
costs of moving perishable meat versus cattle on the hoof.
4.03 For the abattoirs, provision was made for the two governorates to receive,
from the IDA Credit, 25-year loans at 8X interest. In addition, Government would
provide, on a grant basis through budgetary allocations, 20X of the capital costs
of the Cairo abattoir, and 501 of the capital cost of the Alexandria abattoir
(due to its smaller capacity and practical limitations on fees charged). The
Government vas to bear the foreign exchange risk on these loans. Based on
gradual increases in slaughter fees, it was estimated that both abattoirs would



be able to meet their full O&H costs, with Cairo and Alexandria anticipated to
recover 801 and 501, respectively, of their capital cests. A lower recovery was
projected for the smaller Alexandria facility. At appraisal, the FRR for the
Cairo and Alexandria abattoirs were estimated at 91 and 31, respectively.
Management accepted these modest projected rates of return because of expected
substantial unquantifiable other benefits, including improved public hygiene,
and cessation of discharge of untreated effluent into Cairo's sewage system, or
into the western harbor and beaches of Alexandria.
4.o4        For the credit component, the design adopted was innovative for that
period and within the Egyptian environment.   Three intermediary banks were
selected, rather than one, to foster competition, complementarity and wider
coverage. The Bank had prior lending experience with all the three banks. (A
fourth bank was selected, but it withdrew following appraisal). Each of the
participating bank (PBs) has its own characteristics: DIB is a centralized,
reasonably successful industrial development bank, BR is a majsz commercial bank
with growing interest in investment financing and a large branch network, and
PBDAC is the major agricultural bank with branches throughout the country and
direct access to rural areas. This diversity was needes to cater especially to
a wide range of small and medium enterprises dispersed over the country, most
of which hitherto had little access to institutional credit. Accordingly, it
was stipulated that at least 331 of the credit would finance small sub-borrowers,
and not more than 251 public sector enterprises. There was no preallocation of
credit funds between the three PBs. To strengthen the PBs institutionally,
provision was made for technical assistance to PBDAC and BR (DIB was being
assisted under other projects); and for staff training through a national
institute.   Prospective sub-borrowers were also to be assisted in project
idenification, lending procedures, and appraisal methodology.
4.05       A minimum on-lending interest rate of 111 to subborrowers was
stipulated; however, the Bank, in its letter of August 25, 1981, agreed to
finance loans from the Credit proceeds at 8X for farm machinery, and at 61 for
food security projects. The PBs were free to pass on to the subborrowers the
exchange risk between the local currency and the US dollar on subloans, s 4d they
did so.  The foreign exchange risks of borrowing had been identified and,
following appraisal, it was recommended that the Government should assume the
full foreign exchange risks on loans to small subborrovers. This was designed
to protect this group, unfamiliar with international procurement or currency
practices and selling mostly in the domestic market, from the impact of
anticipated  further  devaluation  of  the  Egyptian  pound.   However,  this
recommendation was not accepted in the Bank partly because of signals received
that GOE would not agree to this proposal, and partly to follow a policy
consistent with industrial lending in Egypt through DIB (Loan 1533-EGT) and
proposed practice in such lending of passing the exchange risks to gubborrowers.
Also, it was difficult to assess the magnitude of the exchange risk in a country
still undergoing structural and macroeconomic reforms, although the Bank believed
at the time that after the initial impact on the exchange rate of the 1974-75
reform measures, any further depreciation of the pound would be at modest rates.
With expected further devaluations of the pound, a case was made that the



effective lending rates were likely to be positive in real terms. The *spread"
allowed to PBs was considered adequate to make their participation financially
attractive. With the above arrangements and provisions, it was assumed that a
major risk in the credit component, namely a failure to commit or disburse funds
at an adequate rate, would be minimized.
4.06       The project organizational structure was not the usual one, in that
implementation responsibility was "decentralized" at the three PBs and the two
governorates for the abattoirs, with a loose coordination by the Ministry of
International Cooperation, and the involvement of the Ministries of Economy and
Finance. The decentralized arrangement proved to be appropriate, for the most
part. No major issues were raised at negotiations.
5.    Project Implementation Results
5.01        The project was closed on June 30, 1988, i.e. two-and-a-half years
after the original closing, mainly to allow for the purchase of spare parts for
the two abattoirs, and to enable better utilization of technical assistance.
Over 95X of the IDA credit amount was disbursed.   Overall,  the project
encountered implementation problems. However, this judgement is tempered by the
fact that institutional improvements in Egypt are slow and that the implications
of a major issue (exchange risk) extended far beyond the project level to
macroeconomic policy levels.   Major problems did arise in regard to the
commitment of funds for agroindustries, namely, those associated with foreign
exchange risks, and the development of operations at the abattoirs. There were
management problems as well. Technical assistance and training under the project
met only with modest success.
5.02        Credit.  Information on sub-loans under Credit 988 does not seem to
be reliable, and there are slight differences between IDA and Egyptian figures.
Nevertheless, some general observations can be made. Subloan disbursements each
year from 1981 through 1983 ($4.6 million, $4.7 million and $3.1 million) were
at a high level, but plummeted thereafter, to $1.5 million in 1984 and lower
amounts in succeeding years. Indeed, BM withdrew from active lending after 1983.
The basic cause of this sudden drop in demand was the heavy and growing dqbt
service burden on sub-borrowers (who carried the exchange risk in US dollars)
and the increasing costs of imported equipment, in the face of a progressive
devaluation of the Egyptian pound.   PB's legal documents stipulated that
borrowers assume the foreign exchange risk of borrowing in US dollars.
Subborrowers would repay in local currency at the highest official exchange rate
declared by the Central Bank.  Due to a more flexible foreign exchange rate
policy, the payment rate by borrowers increased from LE 0.84 per US dollar in
early 1985 (752 of the loans were granted before 1985) to the current rate of
LE 2.55. The subborrovers and participating banks either did not anticipate the
exchange rate movements, or were unaware of the consequences. As a result, new
borroving declined preIp4Itously after 19a3, and existing subborrowers had severe
repayment problems, which led to legal disputes between subborowers and PBs,
rising arrears, and prepayment of loans. With the exception of DIB, adequate
or consistent arrearages data from PBs is not available. In 1988, only 23% of



DIB's due loans under Credit 988 (principal and interest) were collected, and
252 in 1987. PBDAC's performance is expected to have been similar or somewhat
worse.
5.03        The foreign exchange risk was not fully anticipated at appraisal,
a major omission especially since sub-borrowers were expected to be small scale
enterprises selling in the domestic market. At the later stages of the project
when the consequences of the exchange risk problem assumed serious proportions,
efforts were made to address the problem at project and policy levels, and Bank
missions repeatedly asked Egyptian officials to resolve this issue. A proposal
by the Bank to levy a guarantee fee oi. subborrowers to enable GOE to assume the
full exchange risk was not accepted by the Government as, in their opinion, this
would push the cost of borrowing to unacceptably high levels. Furthermore, 'the
exchange risk issue was becoming a major subject of discussion with the
Government in the context of the Bank's lending program, as other projects like
Export Industries (LN2459): Construction Industry (LN2460), Small and Medium
Industries (LN2458) and Agroindustries II (LN2243) were similarly affected.  No
definitive solutions were found during the life of this project.
5.04        In regard to the distribution of the sub-loans, all of these were
made to private sector enterprises. The objective of directing lending to small-
scale enterprises was achieved, a major exception being the four sub-projects
financed by BN which were all to large-scale enterprises (and all for poultry).
In terms of sub-sectors, there was a high concentration in poultry which
accounted for over one-third of sub-projects financed (and 56X by sub loan
amount), followed by confectionery (one-fourth of projects but 15X of amounts).
In terms of geographical distribution, there was a heavy concentration near the
three urban centers of Cairo, Giza and Kalubiah; thus the objective of assisting
enterprises in smaller cities and towns was not achieved.   Available data
indicates that all of the projects financed by DIB, and the large majority of
projects financed by PBDAC under Credit 988 (over 90X) are fully operational.
5.05        Subprojects financed under the project generally adopted improved
technology and management practices. For example, the project contributed toward
dairy production under sanitary conditions; chicken breeding on a large scale;
the use of greenhouses in fruit and vegetable cultivation; and introduction of
automatic bakery lines. The economic impact of agroindustries financing could
not be evaluated due to lack of data.   None of the PBs carried out any
calculation of economic rates of return, although in most instances ex-ants (but
not ex-post) financial rates of return on the subproject investments had been
calculated; economic rates of return were also calculated for some projects.
Projects financed under Credit 988 are estimated to have generated about 1200
new jobs, and contributed about $45.0 million in incremental production.
5.06        At completion, the PBs had achieved some institutional progress,
but not to the extent envisaged.   PBDAC was assessed to be still weak in
subproject appraisal and supervision.   DIB and BM were considered to be
satisfactory in project appraisal, but not in supervision or monitoring and
evaluation of subproject impact. Also, it seems that the information systems



- 6 -
of all PBs and the financial management of some PBs left a lot to be desired.
DIB was the only bank to have reliable data on loan arrearages under Credit 988.
There had been delays in the submission of audited financial statements.
5.07        Slaugbterhose. Two problems occurred in regard to the procurement
of the Cairo and Alexandria abattoirs for which separate tenders were issued for
turnkey design and construction.   There was a delay of several months in
appointing consulting engineers (Sogelerg, France) to assist in bid evaluation,
because of disputes over contract terms. Second, the awards were challenged by
a U.K. firm, which claimed to have submitted the lowest bids in both cases.
After a thorough review, the Bank management concluded that the U.K. firm's bids
were unresponsive on a number of counts, and that the awards were indeed
recommended to firms with the lowest evaluated responsive bids, on agreed
criteria.
5.08        The Cairo slaughterhouse (or abattoir) was completed with a minor
delay in early 1983, and the Alexandria abattoir in early 1985 after delays due
to the poor performance of the on-site manager, who was replaced, and to slow
payments to the Egyptian civil works contractor. Modifications to the Alexandria
abattoir were found necessary, which extended the construction period; and for
both abattoirs the requirements of essential spare parts beyond the initial
period agreed with the supplier/contractors were initiated only in 1986,
requiring an extension of the project.
5.09        The Cairo abattoir faced management and financial problems and,
prior to the last supervision mission, was working at only 20X oZ capacity.
Among the major problems were delays in shutting down the old slaughterhouse
which had had a loyal local clientele. Secondly, butchers traditionally lived
near the old slaughterhouses and were reluctant to move.   Moreover, these
butchers were strongly unionized, and worked for the abattoir under contract,
so that they were not under the direct control of the abattoir management, a
situation which led *e problems in terms of discipline and service. The same
problem, though on a smaller scale, was faced by the Alexandria abattoir.
Finally, animal owners were used to tb- convenience of dispersed slaughterhouses,
and found the costs of transporting animals on the hoof and carcasses to be
rather high. Besides, it was not until recently that adequate capacity pens for
animals were built at the new abattoir. Therefore, the Cairo abattoir was unable
to attract an adequate number of private animal owners. However, the closure
of the main old abattoir in Alexandria in mid 1988 and the transfer of the
slaughter of calves and sheep to the Cairo abattoir in October 1988 have raised
capacity utilization to about 601, which accounts for about 252 of consumption.
5.10        The problems encountered by the Cairo abattoir raise the issue of
the appropriateness of the design of having one central abattoir versus a number
of smaller, dispersed abattoirs. Thte latter alternative was reviewed during



-7-
preparation, and abandoned because of the advantage of economies of scale In a
sIngle, large abattoir. It would appear that this assumed advantage has been
offset by the (short-run) low capacity utilization of thM new central abattoir
caused by the location and the associated social and economic costs, which were
not evident at appraisal.
5.11       Another issue is with regard to management.  The two abattoirs at
Cairo and Alexandria are managed by the respective governorates i.e. public
sector organizations, whose overall managerial competence is not generally
considered to be high. The decision to continue the abattoirs under governorate
managements was in part a bow to tradition, and in part to expediency. The
alternative of having these as purely commercial enterprises, privately managed,
would probably not have been accepted by the Government, and would have led to
a significant increase in meat prices. It was also thought that the governorates
may be able to use their influence in expediting the closure of the old, outdated
facilities which, unfortunately, did not prove to be true for Cairo.   At
appraisal, the special relationship between the butchers and management at the
Cairo abattoir had not been adequately factored in assessing future management.
5.12       Under the Project Agreement, both abattoirs were required to set
the *slaughtering fees" at a level so as to cover expenses of operations and
maintenance and to meet interest on and amortize part of the debt incurred
(para 8). The position towards the conclusion of IDA supervision was that the
Cairo abattoir was unable to meet annual operations and maintenance expenses at
the then current rates of slaughter fees, services charges and taxes, which
could not be raised much further without encouraging illegal slaughtering or
slaughtering in small abattoirs in Cairo and ....arby Giza.   The capacity
utilization at the Cairo abattoir increased to 602 in October 1988 with
additional animal pens and the recent transfers of sheep and calves slaughtering
from older slaughterhouses.   However, estimates of annual revenue with the
existing fee structure (currently IE 354,000 excluding income from by-products)
even at full capacity would fall short of estimated direct operational and
maintenance expenses; the governorate has been paying approximately LE 370,000
annually to meet salaries and other direct expenses.  The situation at the
Alexandria abattoir was better, with a higher capacity utilization (601, which
may soon reach 801-851) and a more appropriate level of slaughtering fees than
at Cairo. As a result its revenues in 1987/88 at over LE700,000 exceeded
operating and maintenance expenses (LE 167,000) and salaries (LEl5O,O00); the
latter was being financed by the governorate.   Although forecasts are not
available, it is likely that the Alexandria abattoir would be able to meet its
operating expenses and also debt amortization to a substantial extent but not
fully. For the Cairo abattoir a more attainable target is recovery of operating
and maintenance expenses, with partial debt amortization, even with improved
capacity utilization.
5.13        Prolect results have not been adequately assessed, but some general
observations can be made. There have been major benefits from the two abattoirs
in terms of modern, semi-automatic facilities with adequate cooling and storage,
improved sanitation and public health and better utilization of animal by-



products, especially at the Alexandria abattoir. (The benefits had been slow
to materialize, with low capacity utilization particularly in Cairo, only gradual
improvements in veterinary inspection, and maintenance problems e.g. with the
steam generator at the Cairo abattoir). Due to inadequate sanitary conditions
for meat that leaves the slaughterhouse, much of the gains in sanitation are lost
further on in the marketing chain. In addition, there have been environmental
benefits through treatment of effluents which were hitherto discharged into the
sewage systems in the two cities and also into the Alexandria harbor and adjacent
beaches, which are important tourist attractions. At appraisal an additional
socio-economic benefit was anticipated, viz reduction in traffic congestion in
central city areas. Results in this respect are not available.
5.14        No estimates of the economic rates of return (ERR) have been prepared
for either abattoir.   At appraisal,  the estimated FRR for the Cairo and
Alexandria abattoirs were 91 and 31, respectively (para 8). The ERR would be
lower than the financial rates of return since land for the abattoirs was donated
by the respective governorates, which also continue to bear salaries and some
other expenses. It is also possible that meat prices to consumers continue to
be subsidized although, again, no information is available on this subject.
5.15        Studies.  During preparation and appraisal, the Government and the
IDA believed there was ample justification for undertaking studies on the
relocation of the main fruit and vegetable wholesale markets in Alexandria and
Cairo. There were delays in preparing the terms of reference for the studies,
and the Government's ideas on these terms underwent changes. Eventually, the
Government asked that the studies be dropped from the project, apparently because
Its priorities had changed, so that such an exercise did not appear to be
worthwhile.
6.    Technical Assistance0 Training and Institution Building
6.01        Information on technical assistance (TA) and training as given in
a consultant's (engaged by the Bank) PCR and that from supervision reports are
difficult to reconcile, primarily due to changes in the content or nature and
funding of TA during implementation.
6.02        Credit comnonent.   Provision had been made for TA to PBDAC for
training staff and assisting in the organization and management of its
agroindustries lending program; and for Bank Misr for similar purposes, with a
greater emphasis on technical aspects and development of a subproject pipeline
(this TA was financed under another ongoing project).   In implementation,
apparently the general reluctance among Egyptian organizations to engage
international  consultants  manifested  itself  once  again.    As  a  result,
consultants' recruitment was delayed, and they were engaged for shorter periods
than planned. (Slightly less than half of the $400,000 provided for TA to PBDAC
was eventually disbursed). Moreover, consultants were retained on an ad hoc
basis, an arrangement which did not prove to be entirely satisfactory.   An
element of TA, to subborrowers, was apparently not used at all.



6.03        The three PBs signed agreements with a German consulting firm,
Hendriksen Associates, for two of the three consultancy tasks indicated,
Including monitoring and evaluation.   A further contract, for subproject
promotion and "lending procedures' (also to support a follow-up project), was
signed with a local expert. Changes were made in the scope and duration of TA
at the insistence of the PBs.  Although a few supervision missions did follow-
up in depth on TA, no clear picture emerges of the impact of the TA, or of the
performance of the consultants.  PBDAC and Bank Misr were reported to have
'complained' about the cost and quality of some of the consulting services,
although neither PBDAC nor Bank Misr had an adequate monitoring and evaluation
system at completion, due to this major task being given low priority.
6.04       The training element for credit, taking an innovative approach, was
envisaged as formal and organized training through a national organization namely
the Institute of National Planning (INP), which would also have been strengthened
in the process. INP apparently provided some ad hoc training, the bulk of it
for PBDAC staff, i.e. none for Bank Misr or subborrowers. Training for PBDAC
staff at headquarters and in the field in 17 governorates proved to be uweful.
6.05       Abattoirs.  TA was provided in the form of engineering consultants
for each abattoir for bid evaluation and supervision of construction; and an
expert in management and operations.   The performance of the engineering
consultants was satisfactory; a delay in recruiting consultants for Alexandria
was due to construction delays.   The Cairo abattoir did not recruit the
management consultant as the governorate did not deem this to be necessary; it
has had management problems throughout. Alexandria was not entirely satisfied
with its management consultant, whose contract was not extended.   Of the
$1,045,000 provided for TA, $650,000 or 62X was used.
6.06       Training for management personnel and technical staff of the two
abattoirs was carried out in France and Germany. Almost all training funds,
after reallocation, were actually disbursed.
6.07        Contractors for abattoirs.   The main contractors-cum-equipment
suppliers were Kirchfeld for Cairo and ENPRO for Alexandria, both from West
Germany, and Arab Contractors for civil works at both abattoirs. Construction
delays at Alexandria were caused by slow payments to the contractors, and a poor
performance by the on-site- manager, who was replaced.   Disagreements with
contractors arose during construction, in regard to leakages in effluent
treatment tanks in Alexandria, and defects in underground water pipes and
electric cables in Cairo.  These defects were corrected, after causing some
delays.    Overall,  the performance  of  the  contractors  was  regarded  as
satisfactory.



- 10 -
7.    Prosject Sustainability
7.01       Credit comoonent.   A follow-up project, Agroindustries II (Loan
2243), has been undertaken, so that in a general sense the agroindustries
component of this project has been extended, including similar features,
involving multiple credit channels including two of the banks which participated
in this project, viz DIB and PBDAC. However, the follow-up project has been
afflicted by the continuation of the foreign exchange risk problem (paras 13 and
14), which has eluded a solution. As a result, of the US$81.2 million loan,
US$23.8 million have been cancelled. As indicated, this problem is part of a
wider one, and possible solu-ions to it need to be attempted in a financial
sector - macroeconomic context and at the central government's level of decision
making.   The exchange risk situation has adversely affected the financial
performance of many sub-borrowers as well as that of the PBs, whose subloan
arrears are at a high level; and curtailed demand for credit. Rising arrears
and deteriorating loan portfolio quality of these and similar loans have forced
PBs to increase their provisions for doubtful debts (over LE 100 million by DIB)
and are considered adequate); these provisions may need to be progressively
increased, raising the prospects of official intervention and support. These
factors seriously jeopardize the sustainability of agroindustries credit.
7.02        Abattoirs.  While the Alexandria abattoir has achieved financial
viability, in terms of recovering its costs of operation and maintenance, the
Cairo abattoir has been running at a loss, and it is unlikely that it would
become financially self supporting in the foreseeable future. The Alexandria
abattoir is capable of amortizing a part of its debt, but full cost recovery
may prove to be difficult; for Cairo this goal would be very difficult if not
impossible to achieve within the present price regime.  In other words, the
abattoir operation can be sustained only by significantly raising fees at Cairo.
Given the high investment cost, significantly higher than anticipated, and
limited capacity utilization, some financial contributions would be needed from
the governorates, with the Cairo abattoir requiring higher subsidies than
Alexandria.
7.03       Overall, the project is expected to continue to generate a modest
level of financial and social benefits throughout its economic life, despite
the problems indicated above.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01        The Bank had an important role in conceiving this project, as a
contribution to Egypt's "open door strategy" (1974), through assistance in
activating small-scale private entrepreneurs in food-related agroindustries,
and strengthening credit institutions. In this respect the project has been
worthwhile, supporting the modernization, expansion or establishment of a variety
of food industries. The Bank should have better foreseen at preparation the
magnitude of the exchange risk issue. A devaluation of the Egyptian pound had
been anticipated, but apparently not its severity or consequences. A lesson of



- 11 .
experience, therefore, is the need to place sector-specific credit operations
in a broader financial sector/macroeconomic context especially in an economy
undergoing restructuring.
8.02        Although  the  economic  justification  for  replacing  the  old
slaughterhouse was strong and obvious, it seems that the problems associated
with the concept of a single, central slaughterhouse for Cairo (a city of 13
million people) had not been adequately anticipated or analyzed at preparation;
nor were alternative designs seriously considered. During implementation, there
was a less than concerted effort to phase out the old slaughterhouses, or deal
with the situation of butchers in scattered locations. The Bank may also not
have been forceful enough in asking for improved managemenws and financial
reporting at the two abattoirs.
8.03        The  Bank's  supervision  efforts  could have  gained  from  more
engineering inputs to improve the technical efficiency of the abattoirs and
should have handled fundamental issues more decisively. Although attention was
given to technical assistance and training by a few of the supervision missions,
little attention was placed on assessing the quality and impact of training and
TA. As with most other projects under supervision, there was a high turnover
of responsible staff.   Finally, the Bank had been less than firm with the
implementing agencies in regard to compliance with covenants and reporting
(especially audit) requirements.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01        Although the project's decentralized administration avoided the
pitfalls of a top-heavy bureaucracy, some of the problems which emerged, may be
attributed to the lack of a focal point in Government willing to take
responsibility for the project.
9.02        The Government proved to be indecisive with regard to the practical
handling of the difficulties caused by the exchange risk problem. Confusing and
divergent instructions were issued to the PBs by the Ministries of Economy and
Finance regarding the dollar exchange rates to be used in calculating the
borrowers' repayment obligations. Like the Bank, the Government had not foreseen
the magnitude of the foreign exchange risk issue. Although bank superivision
missions repeatedly raised this issue, no decision has so far been taken.
Current Government position stipulates that subborrowers should bear this risk;
this has led to financial difficulties for subborrowers and participating banks
alike.
9.03       There had been some laxity on the part of the implementing agencies
in meeting financial (for the abattoirs) and reporting covenants.   Another
weakness was the slowness or reluctance to shut down the old slaughterhouses.
These indicate a degree of lack of commitment on part of the Borrower to project
covenants and objectives.



- 12 -
9.04        Throughout project preparation,  appraisal  and  implementation,
relationships between the Borrower and IDA were good.
10.    Conclusions
10.01       The project partially achieved one of its basic objectives viz that
of modernizing and expanding food-related agroindustries in the country through
the promotion of investments by private, small- and medium-scale enterprises.
It thereby contributed to a more open and competitive environment for these
businesses, and supported the Government's "open door" policy. The construction
of modern abattoirs at Cairo and Alexandria represented a significant
contribution to improving public health and the environment.
10.02       Institution building under the project met with only limited success.
The participating banks were generally unwilling to make full use of available
financing for technical assistance and training, and their capability in respect
of subproject promotion, evaluation and monitoring improved marginally, at best.
Among the indicators, these banks were not able to evaluate the impact of
investments financed or prepare reliable subloan arrearages statements. (DIB
excepted).
10.03       Management problems at the two abattoirs were endemic, and their
capacity utilization remained low, particularly at Cairo. The design represented
by a single central abattoir for a huge city like Cairo had not been as fully
evaluated at preparation - appraisal as it deserved to be.   The serious
difficulties caused by the continued operation of the old slaughterhouses and
by recalcitrant butchers were as much inherent as the lack of strong commitment
on the part of the governorates.   The Cairo abattoir is unlikely to be
financially viable in the foreseeable future, while the abattoir at Alexandria
may need a small subsidy to amortize its debt.
10.04       The most critical issue which emerged in lending to agroindustries
was the risk to subborrowers of borrowing in US dollars equivalent.  Th.s
resulted in an untenable debt service burden for many enterprises, and in a
drastic fall in the demand for credit funds. The resulting defaults weakened
the financial positions of the participating banks, and could severely limit
their future role in on-lending operations. This problem should have been better
foreseen at appraisal. A resolution of this issue would have to be sought in
the financial sector and macroeconomic arena, but clearly small enterprises
serving the domestic market find it very difficult to carry entirely on their
own the exchange risks on their borrowings particularly during a period of
fundamental structural and macroeconomic adjustments.



- 13 -
Ui.    Lessons Learned
11.01       A worthwhile lesson, therefore, is to view future credit operations,
not in isolation, but within the wider context of the financial sector and the
macro economic setting, and to adopt appropriate safeguards.
11.02       In future project designs, the concept of a central slaughterhouse
for large cities like Cairo (13 million) should be more critically evaluated,
not only in terms of economies of scale, but also by taking into consideration
the social aspects of acceptability, as well as relocation of butchers, and
related costs. Also, at preparation the socio-economic-political feasibility
of replacing old abattoirs with more modern ones should be assessed, as also
the ability of governments to withstand pressures from. vested interests.
11.03       Another important lesson is the need to evaluate economic rates of
return, particularly for medium and large subprojects (ERR's were calculated
for several but not all projects.) This would determine project viability under
current and projected foreign exchange rates and the possible elimination of
input subsidies and price controls.
11.04       Attention should be given to understand the operation..  and needs of
butchers/agents, inv,'ve them in project design and decision making, and assess
the extent to which they are likely to use the new facilities.
11.05       A final lesson is that when a project design proves to be inadequate
or inappropriate during implementation, supervision should propose remedies or
changes, and try to introduce meaningful amendments.



- 14 -
EGYPT
FIRST AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 988-EGT)
PART II: BORROWER'S COMPLETION REPORT
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request
to prepare Part II, but no reply was received.



Part U1I
-15-                           Page 1
EGYPT
FIRST AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 988-EGT)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Table 1.
Loan/Credit                                             Year of
No.                  Title                           Approval          Status
LN 1276            Fruits & Vegetables                     1976           Closed
CR. 830            Agricultural Development                1978           Closed
LN 2243            Agroindustries II                       1983         On-Going
LN 2458            Small & Medium Scale Industry           1986         On-Going



- 16 -                          Part III
Page 2
Project Timetable
Table 2.
Item                       Date              Date               Date
Planned          Revised             Actual
-   Identification
Executive Project Summary)                                            05/1978
-   Preparation                                                              1978
-   Appraisal Mission             01/1979                              04/05/1979.'
-   Loan/Credit                                                           01/1980
Negotiations
-   Board Approval                                                     03111/1980
-   Loan/Credit                                                        05/01/1980
Signature
-   Loan/Credit                                                        12/03/1980
Effectiveness
-   Loan/Credit Closing           12/31/1985        06/30/1988         06/30/1988
-   Loan/Credit Completion        12/31/1984        06/30/1988         06/30/1988
l-  Appraisal Mission Members:  Messrs. R. Hing, A. Bose, E. Nagele and M.Suleiman



-    -                       Part III
Page 3
Table 3.                      Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY     FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FT    Ft
1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Appraisal Estimate             8.8   30.0  41.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0
Actual                         0.1   16.9  33.7  36.8  38.0  39.4  42.0  43.5  43.8
Actual as 2 of Estiwdte         OS    562   822   821   84%  88X    932   97%   97S
Date of Final Disbursement           December 22, 1988
Cancelled (12/31/88)                                                               1.2



-          -    -                               Part It!
Page 4
Proiect Implementation
Table 4
Appraisal                   Actual (or
Indicators                          Estimate                  PCR Estimate)
No. Projects Financed                     150                              St
x Small Loans                             Min.332                          73%
Lending to Public Enterprises             Max.25%                          None
Approval of Loans,                        100% FY1984                    821 FY1984
commitments, and disbursements
Raise slaughter fees                                               Alexandria raised
by abattoirs                                                         fees in 198b
Cairo did not
raise fees
Construction of
abattoirs:  Cairo                       FY 1982                         L985
Alexandria                 FY 1982                         t985
Closing Date                              12/1985                       6/1988
Hire consultants                    September 1980                 Cancelled at
for wholesale                                                     Government request
markets study
Recruit consultants for             (Qualifications:               Services Terminated
abattoirs; bid                      terms satisfactory             In 1986
valuation, supervise                IDA)
construction, installation,
start up
Recruit qualified managers          One Year                       Done for one
by abattoirs                        start-up                       governorate only
Recruit consultants                 (Qualifications:               Late recruitment
for PBs                             terms satisfactory             shorter terms
to IDA)



Preiect Costs and Financina
A. Proiect Costs
Table .
Aporaisal Estimate                     Revised Estimate                              a
Local         Foreign                Local         Foreign                  Local"         foreign
no                  Eau         Exchane Costs  low         osts       Exchanae Costs    Total      Costs   Exchanne Costs  lal
Credit for Agro-    6.00            19.00         25.       9.0            18.5        27.5      9.0           18.5          27.5
Industries
TA Training          0.38            1.17           1.S5    0               1.5         1.5      0              1.5            1.6
Slaughterhouses      3.73           13.74          17.47    9.3            22.5        31.8      8.3           23.5          31.8
Wholesale Markets    0.14            0.48          0.62    0                0           0        0              0             0
StuJy
Contingencies        5.01           11.12          11.13    -               -           -        -              -
TOTAL             15.26           45.51         60.77   18.3             42,5        60.8     17.3           43.5          60.8
Estimated
B. Prelect Financina
Planned
(Loan/Credit
Source                 Aareemnt        Revised       final       X       Comment
(US$'008)      (US$'000)    (US$000)
IBRD/IDA                        -              _                       -
Expenditure                   45.0           45.0           43.5       97%
Categories
Domestic                      15.8            15.8          17.3       109%
TOTAL                     60.8           60.8          60.8        100%                                                             0
ED-
_4



- 20 -
PART II I
Page 6
Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Table 6.
Appraisal    Estimated at             Estimated at Full
Indicators                   Estimates    Closing Date                Develogment
Jobs                           2000           1,200                       1,500
Prcduction ($ million)
Agroindustries                 70.0            45.0                        70.0
Abattoirs                     128.6            N.A.                        N.A.
Beneficiaries
Agroind. Consumers           340,000        200,000                     300,000
Abattoirs                  6,500,000     3,000,000                    5,500,000
E:  Economic Impact
Appraital              Actual
Estimate        (At Final Develowpent)
indicative Economic
Rate of Return
for Subsectors
Dairy Processing                     100%                    Not Available
Cold Stores                        32-77%
Block Ice                             592



- 21                           Part III
Page 7
C. Financial Impact
Without           Future wiLh
Project            Proiect              Actual
Indicative Financial
Rates of Return for
Subsectors
Dairy Processing               -                    242                 N.A.
Egg Packing                    -                    40%                 N.A.
Cold stores                    -                    242                 N.A.
Block Ice                      -                    172                 N.A.
Cairo Abattoir                 -                     92                 N.A.
Alexandria Abattoir            -                     32                 N.A.
Fiscal Impact             Not available
Comments:
D. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                                     Impact of
Appraisal                 Status                 Study
Studies
Study of wholesale       Relocation of           Cancelled at              None
Markets of Fruits        wholesale markets in   request of
and Vegetables           Cairo & Alexandria      Government



- 22 -
Part III
Page 8
Status of Covenants
Tabl I
Deadline for
covnaShnt                               Cn"D1 anee                 Status
Financial statements                    Six months from
Audit reports                           from end of
fiscal year
a) Pas                                                             a) Compliance
but with delays
b) Slaughterhouses                                                 b) Did not comply
Raising slaughter fees                  Phased over time           Alexandria complied
Cairo did not
Minimum of 33n of loans to small
projects                                Closing date               Complied
Recruitment of consultants              Terms satisfactory         Late ComplianCe;
a) PBs                                  to tOA                    could have been
b) Slaughterhouses        .                                       advanced.  Dis-
continued 1986.
Maximum lending 2S% to                  Closing                    Complied All lending
public enterprises                      date                      to private sector
Semi-annual reports by                  June. December of         Generally complied
PBs on loan approvals                   each year                 but with delays and
comitments and disbursements                                       inconsistent data



- 23                            Part III
Page 9
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
State of            Planned        Revised            Final
Proiect Cycle          Total          Total             Total         Comments
Through Appraisal         N.A.            N.A.             N.A.
4-5/1979
Appraisal through
Board Approval            N.A.            N.A.             N.A.
3/11/1980
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness             N.A.            N.A.            N.A.
12/3/1980
Supervisioni starting
FY J980                                N.A.             91.2
Total                                     N.A. .2__
Total                                     N.A.             91.2



Part III
-24 -                                     Page 10
Stage of      Month/   Number of    Weeks    Specialization          Performance Rating       Types of
Priect Cvcle   Yar          Persons   In Field      Renresented            Status C*)           Problems
Throuoh Aooraisal
04/1979
1.            03/1977         1         2               n.a.
2.             03/1978        3          4              n.a.
3.             04-S/1978      2          1-1/2          n.a.
4.             07/1978        7          1              n.a.
S.             07/1978        1          1              n.a.
6.             10/1978        S          3              n.a.
7.             03/1979        3          2              n.a.
8.             04/1979        4          4              n.a.
Appraisal through
Board Ancroval
03/11/1980
9.            07/1979        2          3
10.            10/1979        1         3
11.           01/1980         2         2
Board Approval
throuah Effectiveness
12/03/1980
12.            04/1980        3          1
13.           09/1980         1          3              Ag. Ind.
Supervision
14.            12/1980        3       3          Econ.Ag.Ind.         2
15.           05/1981         3        1         Ag. Ind.             2
16.            10/1981        1       3          Ag. Ind.             2
17.           03/1982         S       3                               2            Foreign exchange risk.
18.            12/1982        3       2-1/2      Econ.Ag.Ind.         2            construction delays
19.            04/1983        3       3          Ag. Ind.             2            abattoir management
20.            09/1983        4        3         Ag. Ind. Ag.         2            problems
21.            06/1984        2        3         Ag. Ind.             2
22.            01/1985        2        2         Ag. Ind.             2
23.            10/1985        2        2         Ag. Ind.             2
24.            09/1986        2       4          Ag.Econ.             2
25.            11/1986        2        2         Fin.Econ.            2
26.            04/1987        2       2          F1n.Econ.            2
27.            09/1987        2        3         Ag.Econ.
f1n.Ag.             2
28.            03/1988        1        1         Fin.                 2
29.            09/1988        1                  Ag.Econ.             2
() Minor problems (1), Moderate problems (2), Major problems (3)



Part III
-25-
Page II
C. Costs (if available from MIS)
Total $ Cost      Average $ Cost       Average $ Cost of Field
Stage of         of Staff         of HQ Activities       Activity per Mission
Proiect Cycle       Inputs         per Mission Member              Member
Through Appraisal     -
Appraisal through     -
Board Approval        -                 Not Available
Board Approval        -
through
Effectiveness         -
Supervision           -



IaLt II1
-26-                                  Page 12
Capacity of the Cairo Slaughterhouse
Number of Animals
Table     a- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --8- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
*1ines           I Lines I          Lineslaugh I n         s s
Animal               No.  Capacity      No.  Capacity  No. Nominal ACtual    4-days
Lines             Lines             Lines                  o-e shift     Total /year
Large stock           2      1680        2      450       2    450      350      2800          145.600
Camel                 1       320         1      160       1     160    160       640            33.280
Calf                   I      --          1     910        I   1050    800       3200          166.400
Shee"                 1      1820         1     1470       1   1760    1200      4800          249.600
Pig                   -       --          1     320        1    3S0    200        800           41.600
(1) 7 hours/day. 4 days/week for 52 weeks
SOurCe: Project documents. slaughterhouses



Part III
-27_
Page 13
Fees Charged by the Cairo Slaughterhouse
LEI/Head
As of October, 1988
Table 9
Type of fees          Large live stock        Camel     Calf      Sheep      Pig
Slaughter charges            1.045              1.050     0.420      0.310    1.00
Taxes                        1.000              1.000     0.420      0.310    1.00
Meat Association             0.800              0.800     0.350      0.200    0.80
Bonus (slaughter)            2.000              2.000     0.700      0.300    2.00
Skinners:
Grade (1)                    1.200              1.200     0.600      0.300
Grade (2)                    0.600              0.600     0.300      0.150
Grade (3)                    0.200              0.200     0.100      0.100
Bonus (skinning)             2.000              2.000     1.000      0.500    2.00
Overnight stay, after
first night                  0.0'0              0.010     0.010      0.010    0.01
Carcass handling             1.000              1.000     1.000      1.000   1.000
Source: Cairo abattoir



?art III
-28-                       ?        14
Ca_acItv of the Alexanderia Slauahterhouse
(No. of Animals)
Table 10
Nominal capacity           Ca2acityv ir Year (1)
Animal              _     er day             One Shift        Two Shifts
Larse stock:
Old                       102                  21,216           42,432
Young                     205                  42,640           85,280
Small Animals:
Calf.                     150                  31,200           62,400
Sheep                     292                  60,736          121,472
Pig                        48                  '9,984           19,968
(1) 7 hours/day, 4 days/week for 52 weeks
Source: Alexandria abattoir, project documents
Charses by the Alexandria Slau hterhouse
LE/Head
As of October 1988
Table 11
Governorate
Fees       Slaughter & Cooling, etc.   bandling    Total
Large Animals
(Cows, camels,
buffaloes)           1.0                 6.0                  0.15       7.15
Small Animals          1.0                 5.0                  0.15       6.15
Calves                0.4                 3.5                  0.10       4.00
Sheep                 0.3                 2.5                  0.05       2.85
Pigs                  1.0                 3.5                  -          4.50
Source: Alexandria Abattoir



Part III
-29-                                        Page 15
Sectoral Distribution of Loans
Table 12
Subsector                            Ole                 P8OAC               OM                    Totol
V.luc               Value              Value                  Value
'No.     "$Lfl   No.          $S2.A   Ma.          S1LM             a.   vLA00
Poultry                    4     1,951.0    1S        4,626.7    4          3.522            23    10,100
Feed Hill                  1       230.0      5         779.0    -                            6     1.009
Ice & Cold Storage         3       602.0      4         524.0    -                            7     1.126
Oairy                      2        42.0      1          S8.0    -                            3        100
Veg. & Fruits              -                  1         149.0    -                            1        149
Confectionery             17     2.615.0      -          -                                   17     2.615
Food Stuff                 3     2.176.0      -          -                                    3     2.176
Packaging material         s       653.7      -          -                                    5       654
Others                     3       291.0      3         110.0    -      -                     6        40
Total                     38     8.561.7    29        6,247.7    4          3.522            71    18.330
source: Participating Banks



Geoaranhical Distribbution of Loans
Table 13.
Governorate                           P8OAC                 DIB                     NB                 Total Amount
No.      Amount         No.    Amount          No.   Amount                  Oisbursed
Disbursed             Disbursed        .    Disbursed
10 Ramandan                                         1        20,850.21                                     20.850.21
Alexandria                                          6       938 401.33                                     938.401.33
Beni-Suef                                           2        94,533.65                                      94.533.63
Cairo                  2         107,610.90        17     3,741,442.77                                   3.849.053.67
Dakahliah              6       1,185.000.28         1        45,972.00                                   1.230.972.28
Damiate                                             1       457,949.62      1      1.425.000.00          1,882,949.62
Elbehira               4        474,119.67                                  1        263,000.00            737,119.67
Elfaiom                                             1       849,047.43                                    849,047.43
Elmenia                                             1     1,000,000.00                                   1,000.000.00
Elmenouftah            6        999,961.74          1       240,140.79                                   1.240,102.53
Gharbia                 1        799,544.64         1        48,400.00                                     847,944.64
Giza                   2         350,477.30         2       822,736.98      1      1,239,000.00          2,412,214.88                    0
Kafr El%hikh            1        106,986.58                                                                106,986.58
Kalubia                4       1,434,671.86         3       204,203.40      1        595,000.00          2,233,875.06
Kena                   1          88,981.22                                                                 88,991.22
Shark1ah               2         699,185.66                                                                699,185.66
Hahala                                              1        97,836.39                                      97,836.39
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__-----------------------------------
Total                  29     6,246,540.23         38     8,561.514.57      4      3,522,000.00         18,330,054.80
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-----------------------------------
Source: Participating Banks.
g-H



-31-                            Part III
Page 17
Numbers and Amounts of Loans Agoroved
Tabl 14.
Bank                   PBDAC             DIB               aM            Total
No. of Projects          29               38                4              71
Loans US * 1/       9,295,995.86   6,246,540.23    3,522,000.00   19,064,536.19
World Bank
Disbursements US $      n.a.             n.a.           n.a.        18,514,075.24
Source: Participating Banks, IDA
I Refers to loans approved, not disbursements.



-32 -
Page 18
Annual Distribution gt Loans Disbursed
table Is.
PBOAC                      Ole                        Ns                   Total
Year    No. Total Amount        No.  Total Amunt        NO.    Total Amount
Disbursed               Disbursed                 Disbursed
1981                                 2.869.582.76        2     1.688,000.00           4.5S7,582.78
1982     S    893,428.92        17   1.945.836.07        2     1,834,000.00           4.673,264.99
1983     8   2.569.869.60        7     581.122.06                                     3.150.991.65
1984     7   1.498.688.36                                                             1.498.688.36
1985     2     359,009.73       4      S92.616.24                                       951.62S.97
1986                            2    3.898.034.34                                       389,801.34
1987     5    636.699.73                                                                683,699.73
1988     1      N.A.
1989     1    288,843.98        3    2.182,5S6.10                                     2,471,400.08
Total  29    6,246.540.32       38   8.561.514.57        4     3.522.000.00          18,330,054.89 1/
Source: Participating Banks
1/  Ooes not reconcile with IOA figures (US$18,514.075).



Part III
Page 19
Revenue from Fees Charzed by the Alexandria Abattoir
Table 16.
Type of Fees            10.2.85-30.6.86   1.7.86-30.6.87   1.7.87-30.6.88
LE                 LE               LE
State charges               13,221.75         17,485.95         62 419.40
Slaughtering & cooling     84,550.70         110,976.45        366,451.75
Deboning                    74,834.98         73,846.27        149,542.32
Freexing                   65,625.00          96,250.00         96,250.00
Sales of by-products       14,422.78          19,412.94         80,453.64
Sales of residues              223.00          3,007.00          1,009.37
Transport                      900.00          2,286.00            982.00
Other                           -              1,459.16         22,989.97
Total                      240,556.46        307,237.82        717,679.05
Source: Alexandria abattoir.



.
-34                                Part III
Page 20
Dsve1ojoent Industrial Bank (DIB)
Loans Darmi Collected
* (L.EL)
Table 17(a)
Principal      Principal       Interest        interest
Do           9ad
Up to  June 30,      6,267,386       1,051,637       3,864,580       1,280,715
1988
Up to  June 30,      4,397,637       854,210         3,402,165       1,113,607
1987



-                                 ~~~~~~~~~Peart  III
,  _ 35 _                                     Page 21
fayelommt !ndustetra  SAnk
Portfolio & Arrears
(LE '000)
tabl. 17thi
At Qf Jufla IS                        1  2       10*2   l1094        1981_    198       14*7     I05*
Loan Outstanding                     23437S    316172    384434   460214   546649   66868S   864859
Leans Affected by Arrear              22601      41585     49649    89003    66177    972sa   140249
Pritncial ArrAr;
3-6 Moeths                              133       1888      SS97     8626      6724     7773    12277
6-12 Honths                            2492       4063      2465     4176      4952     5680      9002
12-'4 months                           1003       1384      3250     S2J1      6114     6887      8476
Over 24 months                          _1U        hi                  am      au 6821   IDZZf    12DM
Total Principal tn Arr.arg             4097       7999     13S8S    22583    24612    31068    42763
Total !ntl|ar,etL]"C in Ar320                     6483      8920    18893    17935    23670    31210
Loans affected by Arrears/
Portfolio %                               10        13         13       19       12        1S       16
PrinCipal Arrears/
Portfolio S                                1.7       2.S       3.5       4.9      4.5       4.6      4.9



- 36 -Prt-III
Pag. 22
Bank Misr - Arrears
As of October 31, 1988
Table 18.
Project                                                      Amount in
Code No                       Loan LE                        Arrears LE
BMi                           221,000                             72,000
BH2                           421,000                               N.A.
BM3                         1,041,000                          1,654,000
Source: Bank Misr



-37-                          Part I1I
Page 23
Disbursements
as of 1/4/89
Us $
Table 20.
Category                                    Allocated 1I/    Disbursed
1- Credit for agroindustries                  19,000,000        18,514,075
2- Abattoirs: (A) Cairo                       16,000,000        14,487,784
(B) Alexandria                  7,500,000         8,997,812
3- Wholesale markets study                       500,000                 0
4- Technical Assistance:
(A) PBDAC                                     400,000           188,322
(B) Management training/abattoir              300,000            87,142
5- Training PB staff                             200,000           290,045
6- Consultant for supervision of                 500,000           651,791
abattoir construction
7- Training:
(A) Staff of Cairo abattoir                   100,000           218,192
(B) Staff of Alexandria abattoir              100,000           100,236
8- Unallocated                                   400,000
Total                                      45,000,000        43,53S,399
1/ According to Revised Schedule 1 of Credit Agreement.



- 38 _
Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
COM4ENTS FROl THE BORRWER
DEVELOPMENT INDUWYRLL BANK
VICE CUAMMAN
Cairo on, 15.1.1990
The World BanK
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Attention: Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Re: First agroindustries project (credit 988-EGT)
Project completion report
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Thank you for your letter dated November 28, 1989 regarding project
completion report - credit No 988EGT - and pleased to inform you that
matter is having our attention for preparing of calculation of econmic
rates of return, and we would like to refer you to the amendments per our
telex No 1304 dated 24.12.89 (copy attached) which indicate the following
corrections:
1) Table No 12 sectoral distribution of loan according our records DIB'S
value must be US $. 9.336 million and not US $. 8.561 million .
2) Table No 14 amount of loans approved for DIB must be US $. 9,3:36,183.69
instead of US $.6,246,540.23
Table No 19 (A) must be amended according to the following missing
subprojects :-
1) Subproject NO A (1) of Agriculture and Poultry Production Co., for
US $. 743481.29 .
2) Subproject No B (40) of Alexandria Factory for Chewing Gun. for
US $. 376565.73 and not US $. 336377.89 (being the last disbursement of
said project for $. 40187.84 did not included to the above table).
Therefore the total amount disbursed of the above table will be
USD. 9336183.69 and not $. 8561515,
./2
t10, Galaa Strect - Cairo Cable Address uDevbank* Telex: 92643 Dita UtN



-39 -                    Attachment I
DNwwft4lqI   IDUSTbIAL SANM                                 Page 2 of 2
VICE  CAIRMN
We enclose herewith the statement which indicate all amounts disbursed
under said loan .
Assuring you of our best co-operation at all times
H. El Sennary,
Vice Chairman,
110, Oaa Sreet - Cairo Cable Address aDevbaon  Teex : 92643 DMbak UN



