Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2712-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
February 20, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$1.43
1 US Dollar             =  LE 0.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBE     -   Central Bank of Egypt
COMECON -   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DIB     -   Development Industrial Bank
EEC     -   European Economic Community
GODE    -   Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt
PBDAC   -   Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:   Governorate of Cairo
Governorate of Alexandria
Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
Bank Misr
Amount:           $45 million
Terms:           Standard
Relending
Terms:          About $25 million would be available as required to the
Development Industrial Bank (DIB), the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), and Bank Misr
at 7 percent for on-lending to small sub-borrowers and at
8 percent for on-lending to others. The exchange risk
between the Egyptian pound and US dollar would be borne by
the sub-borrowers. About $12 million would be lent to the
Cairo Governorate and about $3.6 million to the Alexandria
Governorate for 25 years including 4 years' grace, with
interest at 8 percent per annum; and $2.4 million would be
given as a grant. In addition, the Government would pass on
$2 million as grants to the Governorates and the participat-
ing banks for technical assistance and studies.
ProJect
Description:    The proposed project would provide funds (i) to the three
participating banks for the development of small and medium
sized agroindustries, with technical assistance to strengthen
the banks' lending programs, (ii) for the replacement of the
municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria, and (iii)
for studies for the replacement of the main fruit and vege-
table wholesale markets in those cities. Major benefits
include reduction in waste of agricultural products, employ-
ment creation, and improved public health because animals
would be slaughtered under greatly improved conditions of
hygiene. The major risks are that the banks may not be able
to commit and disburse funds in a timely manner and the
management of the slaughterhouses may not be adequate. The
credit component risks have been minimized with the selection
This document hs a mtrictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of three banks with no quota for any one of them and provi-
sion has been made for consulting assistance. Management
support and technical training will be provided for the
slaughterhouses.
Cost Estimates:                                           US$ Million
Local         Foreign         Total
1.   Agroindustries                             6.0           19.0           25.0
2.   Consultants and Training for
Participating Banks                     0.3             0.5            0.8
3.   Slaughterhouses
(i)  Construction                         3.7            13.7           17.4
(ii)  Technical Assistance                 0.1             0.2            0.3
(iii)  Engineers                             0.1            0.4            0.5
4.   Wholesale Market Studies                   0.1            0.5            0.6
5.   Contingencies
(i)  Physical                             0.7             2.4            3.1
(ii)  Price                                4.3             8.8           13.1
Total Project Cost                             15.3           45.5           60.8
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Million
Local         Foreign         Total
IDA                                        -            45             45.0
Government                                 5.1            -              5.1
Sub-borrowers                             6.6             0.5            7.1
Participating banks                        3.6            -              3.6
Total                                     15.3          45.5            60.8
Estimated                                                   US$ Million
Disbursements:                         FY   1981      1982      1983       1984
Annual                    8.8      21.2      11.0       4
Cumulative                8.8      30.0      41.0      45.0
Rate of Return:             Not quantifiable.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 2653-EGT, dated February 6, 1980, Agriculture IV
Projects Department,
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed\
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$45.0
million to help finance part of the foreign exchange cost of an agroindustries
project. The development credit would have standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Development and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following discussion. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
development through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
1/   Part I of this report is the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Development Industrial Bank project which is being submitted
for consideration by the Executive Directors.



opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with
COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established
in the Central Bank and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordante with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourist sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.
9.         Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks



- 3 -
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at end-1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in
debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatee-d Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports.  This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Itmiports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $]89 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
12.       Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances. National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this inadequate level of domestic savings was the
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent



-4-
of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent. This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term
trend because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of
inputs. Growth in industry and mining continued at 7.8 percent, close to the
1975-78 average. There was, however, a marked slowdown in the growth of the
petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979 compared to 34 percent in 1978, reflecting
the lack of major discoveries in recent years and the approaching "peak" in
production from existing fields. Overall, the growth rate in the commodity
sectors realized in 1979 (6.9 percent) was close to the 1975-78 average (7.6
percent). Growth in the distributive and service sectors, about 12 percent
and 9 percent respectively, continued to be significantly higher than in the
commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.
15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and
are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits will have to be closed to channel more workers'



- 5 -
remittances and tourism receipts into official channels and prevent the
re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange market. Periodic adjustments in
the exchange rate may also become necessary if the unofficial "free market"
rate were to start deviating substantially from the "unified" official rate.
In 1979 the fre- market premium fluctuated around 8 percent and significant
downward pressure on the exchange rate did not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue fron. the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,



inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion. Bilat-
eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt out-
standing while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the



-7-
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent.  No reli'le estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's forty-fourth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since
1970) to $1,525.5 million. 2/ Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and
IDA credits as of January 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
26.       Egypt faces a host of basic structural problems:  pressure of
population on resources; inadequate economic infrastructure; a large but
inefficient public sector constrained by out of date equipment; overstaffing;
weak management; a network of controls over investment, production, distri-
bution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits; and shortages of
domestic resources. The Bank's response has been tailored to address these
long-term developmental issues in a very broad fashion and in close coopera-
tion with other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum of
sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other agencies,
bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating discussion and,
hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies and invest-
ment proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also
includes delivery of technical assistance, not only for adequate implementa-
tion of specific investment programs but for developing the domestic insti-
tutional capability to devise and implement future policies and investment
1/   Part II of this report is the same as Part II of the President's Report
for the Development Industrial Bank project, which is being submitted for
consideration by the Executive Directors.
2/   Includes the proposed Development Industrial Bank project for $50 million.



- 8 -
programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been
differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian
authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement
the programs.
27.       Industry, which has received the largest portion of Bank resources
and significant attention over the past five years, illustrates the nature and
scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government looks to industry to create
productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, generate an "export
surplus", and stimulate growth of the economy. However, this sector is beset
by a complex set of problems which stem largely from the rigidity of central-
ized control and lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack
of incentives for better use of productive capacity. Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capac-
ity utilization (imports loans and credits Nos: Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln.
1456) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities
in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort is directed at introducing policy and
structural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is assisting in a "diag-
nostic" evaluation of the organizational set-up of the planning apparatus to
strengthen sectoral planning and project preparation and implementation
capabilities with the objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan
for the 1980s. It has also financed six subsector studies in textiles,
building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineer-
ing industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a package of
policy and investment proposals, which would be embodied in future projects.
Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for study in greater detail
with a view to developing specific recommendations concerning the major issues
facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment,
wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship between the public and
private sectors. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a
study on small-scale industries which is laying the basis for joint Egyptian/
Bank efforts in this area. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government
in undertaking a major study of the construction/contracting industry which is
one of the most critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well
as in initiating studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribu-
tion master plan.
28.       The above sketch illustrating the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that
it has adopted in varying degrees in the other sectors of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes
but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appro-
priate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group for
Egypt. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy; and
the pipeline includes, in addition to a substantial number of agricultural
activities, projects in education, power, gas distribution, rural and urban
development, transportation, rural water supply, development finance and
industry.



-9-
29.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4 per-
cent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of totdl external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively, of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
30.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in 1976; the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977; the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978; the fourth, a poultry project, in
July, 1979; and the most recent, a fish farming project in December 1979.
IFC is discussing several otlher private sector and joint venture projects.
PART IIL - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
31.       Agriculture continues to be the largest sector in the Egyptian
economy, currently generating 25 percent of GDP, employing 41 percent of the
labor force, and contributing about 27 percent of direct exports. Although
around 95 percent of the land area is desert, cultivated soils are among the
most fertile in the world, and the climate provides excellent growing condi-
tions for year-round cropping. Crop yields are high by world standards, but
comparison with other similarly endowed areas shows that there is considerable
potential to obtain much higher yields. Over the last decade output has been
growing at less than 2 percent a year, so that per capita agricultural produc-
tion has steadily declined since the late 1950s. Real incomes in agriculture
have thus been declining and are currently at about LE 100 or a little over
US$140 per capita, one-third of that for the urban areas.
Issues and Priorities in Agriculture
32.       There are several policy priorities in devising an appropriate
growth strategy for Egypt's agriculture. Foremost among these is the creation
of an economic climate in which the farmers will have adequate incentives for
expanding production, given access to new technologies. The elaborate set of
procurement prices and input subsidies have severely distorted the market
signals with consequent ill effects in resource allocation. The Government
has started to correct at least some of the more glaring distortions, although
much more needs to be done over time.
1/   The Egyptian agricultural sector is described in detail in the Basic
Economic Report, distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1978.



- 10 -
33.       Among basic physical factors underlying stagnating productivity
in agriculture are rising water tables and increased soil salinity in many
areas. Since 1973, and assisted by four Bank-financed projects, there has
been considerable investment in drainage structures, with the overall aim of
providing about 4.5 million feddans with underground drainage systems by 1985.
The new lands program is also an important component of the Government's
agricultural development strategy, but in developing the program rigorous
technical and economic analysis is needed to set priorities to ensure that
better growth opportunities are not foregone in the presently cultivated land
areas.
34.       Because of the limited cultivable land (currently about 0.16 feddans
per capita), one of the priorities for agricultural development is techno-
logical change, particularly the breeding cf higher yielding crop varieties
responsive to water and fertilizer and resistent to diseases and pests. The
key is research, which together with an improved extension service is essen-
tial for a fuller exploitation of the growth potential. The Government's
agricultural research budget is still very small, but steps are being taken
to improve other services, such as extension and credit.
Capital Needs for Agroindustries
35.       Egypt's agroindustry subsector is relatively undeveloped, lacking
in sufficient financial support and technical know-how. While much of the
potential demand for agroindustrial development is concentrated in Egypt's
capital intensive industries (such as sugar refining and vegetable oil mill-
ing), the Government's policy to encourage decentralization and growth of the
private sector has resulted in an increasing demand for funds by entrepreneurs
moving out of traditional crops (which are subject to price controls) into
new crops such as fruit and vegetables, dairy processing, cold stores and
poultry plants. The availability of medium-term funds to such private sector
enterprises is very limited, both for the rehabilitation and expansion of
existing industries, as well as for new projects; and one of the principal
objectives of the proposed project is to increase the flow of funds for
smaller, private agroIndustrial investment.
36.       Because "agroindustries" cut across the agricultural and industrial
sectors, there is no bank which specializes in financing agroindustries as
such. Most of the banks have financed agroindustry projects from time to
time, but at present the only regular source of medium and long-term credit
for the smaller companies in Egypt is the Development Industrial Bank (DIB).
Agroindustrial Activities
37.       Except for assistance to the two municipal abattoirs, the proposed
credit will be directed to relatively small-scale projects. The type of small
agroindustries likely to be financed under this project include small-scale
food processing such as macaroni plants, flour mills, bakeries, dairy and meat
processing, date and sesame processing; food distribution facilities such as
cold stores, ice making and poultry slaughterhouses; and miscellaneous service
and export activities, such as poultry feed, container manufacturing, and
the preparation of essential oils and spices.



- 11 -
Previous World Bank Operations in Agriculture
38.       The World Bank is making extensive contributions to Egyptian agri-
culture through support for the Government's major program for field drainage,
for which the Bank has made loans and credits totalling $178 ml.lion.  With
the support of the Bank (through the Talkha Fertilizer Project, FY74) and
other donors, Egypt expects to become self-sufficient in urea fertilizer
production by 1981 at current levels of fertilizer application. The Bank
has also contributed to a Fruit and Vegetable Project (FY76), which provides
finance for a public-sector vegetable seed farm in newly reclaimed lands to
the west of the Delta, for the construction of a drainage outfall for these
lands, and to Bank Misr to relend for agroindustrial sub-projects. In addi-
tion, the Bank has provided assistance for a pilot project of farm mechaniza-
tion in the Governorates of Sohag and Menufiya with the general objective of
upgtading agricultural institutions. The Fruit and Vegetable project has
moved slowly, mainly because of administrative and management problems, and
similar problems are emerging with the Sohag and Menufiya Project. The
Government, with assistance from the Bank, is making an effort to improve
implementation of these two projects with the help of training and technical
assistance.
39.       The Bank's other financial assistance to agriculture has been
through (a) the Agricultural and Industrial Imports Loan and Credit (FY75)
which financed imports of fertilizer, pesticides, machinery spare parts and
some tractors, and (b) through a Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation project (FY74).
40.       Water Master Plan.  The Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-
financed program to assist in developing a Master Plan for Water Resources
and Uses. The technical assistance program is intended to provide a basis for
the Government to choose between alternative development policy options in
the different sectors for which water use is important, and within agriculture
between different uses of irrigation water.
41.       Policy Discussions.  Tn addition to our operational involvement,
the Bank is heavily engaged in discussions with the Government on agriculture
sector issues, and there are some encouraging signs of progress towards
meaningful reforms of both policies and institutions. Agricultural pricing
policy is now recognized as a major obstacle to increased agricultural
production, and the Government has agreed that the Bank undertake an in-depth
pricing study. In the near future the Bank plans to study also the issues
related to agriculture employment and mechanization.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was identified and prepared by the Egyptian authorities
in 1978 in cooperation with the Bank staff, and appraised in April/May 1979
by Messrs. R. Hing, A. Bose, E. Nagele, and M. Sulieman. Annex III contains
a timetable of key events in processing the project and a description of the
special conditions of the proposed credit. Negotiations were held in Washington



- 12 -
from January 7 to 11, 1980, with the Government delegation headed by Mr. Samir
Koraiem, Undersecretary for International Finance, Ministry of Economy,
Economic Cooperation and Foreign Trade. A staff appraisal report entitled
"Egypt, Agroindustries" (No. 2653-EGT) dated February 6, 1980, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
43.       The major objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to assist
in the modernization and expansion of processing and marketing of basic
agricultural products and associated service and input activities; and (ii)
to initiate steps to forge links between financial institutions and agro-
industries, especially those which are of small and medium size and mostly
located in rural areas, and to strengthen the participating banks' capacity
to identify, appraise, and supervise medium and long-term agroindustries
investments.
Project Description
44.        The project has two major components:  (i) credit of about $25
million to be provided through participating banks for the development of
small and medium sized agroindustries, with additional funding for technical
assistance to strengthen the lending programs of the various banks; and (ii)
funds for the replacement of the municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and
Alexandria. The project will also include studies for the replacement of the
main fruit and vegetable wholesale markets in those cities.
45.       Agroindustries Credit.  This project component would finance invest-
ments throughout Egypt for the creation, expansion and modernization of
facilities for primary processing, marketing, and distribution of basic
foodstuffs and other agricultural commodities and associated service and
input activities. A wide variety of agroindustrial enterprises are expected
to apply for financing, generating an estimated 150 to 200 sub-loans of sizes
ranging from US$50,000 (or less) to US$1.5 million equivalent. It is esti-
mated that some 60 percent of these will be existing enterprises interested
in expansion and modernization, while the other 40 percent will be new enter-
prises.
46.       Three banks have expressed interest in and have been selected to
participate in the project. Two of them are specialized banks (the Develop-
ment Industrial Bank (DIB) and the Principal Bank for Development and Agricul-
tural Credit (PBDAC). The third is a commercial bank (Bank Misr). The
participating banks are wholly state-owned and come under the jurisdiction of
the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE), except PBDAC which, under its charter, is
controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture.
47.       Of the three participating banks, the Development Industrial Bank
is the only one devoted entirely to development banking. DIB received its
third IDA credit/Bank loan in March 1978, which is expected to be fully
committed shortly, and a fourth loan is now being presented for Board



- 13 -
consideration. DIB is receiving technical assistance from both USAID and the
Bank Group to augment its management and project appraisal capability.
48.       The second of the participating specialized banks is the Principal
Bank for Deve]"pment and Agricultural Credit. Together with its 17 affiliated
Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit and a very extensive network
of about 5,200 branches, PBDAC is the major primary source of institutional
credit for agriculture in Egypt. A part of the IDA Agricultural Development
Project Credit (FY78) has been earmarked for financing investments in farm
mechanization and irrigation through medium and long-term credits from PBDAC.
Since PBDAC's term lending activities had been extremely limited and it had
done very little project appraisal or supervision, provision was made under
the above credit for technical assistance in the form of a team of specialists
to advise management on term lending and to assist generally in organizational
improvements.
49.       The third bank, Bank Misr, has a portfolio that in the past has
consisted overwhelmingly of short-term loans for commercial and trading
activities; but recently the bank has undertaken investment projects in
agriculture, including development financing for horticulture industries under
the World Bank financed Fruit and Vegetable Development Project (FY76).
Bank Misr's performance in agricultural sector lending under the Fruit and
Vegetable Project has not been satisfactory, particularly considering its
reputation in other aspects of banking. A little less than one-half of the
$20.5 million allocation to Bank Misr has been committed. This slow rate of
disbursement, in part, relates to the need for Bank Misr to strengthen its
agricultural lending operations. Recent changes in sectoral demand have also
contributed to Bank Misr's low level of project disbursement. The credit
needs of horticultural industries have recently declined considerably because
the rapidly rising domestic demand for citrus has reduced the need for addi-
tional packing house export capacity and other supporting infrastructures
associated with the export trade. This is the main reason why the Bank
recently agreed to broaden the project description under the FY76 project to
agroindustries in general (see President's Memorandum of January 21, 1980,
R80-13). Although Bank Misr's staff still lacks expertise and experience in
technical evaluation of agroindustrial investments, several sub-projects
recently approved for financing show that they have obtained a fair degree of
competence in project appraisal.  In addition, Bank Misr will, in the near
future, engage consultants to help strengthen sub-project identification and
preparation in the branch networks.
50.       Credit and Participating Banks.  The use of funds for on-lending
will require a broad based credit delivery system capable of adequately
appraising, supervising, and monitoring sub-projects, and coupled with the
ability to seek out prospective investors especially in outlying rural areas.
The banks, more generally, would need to develop a well-defined plan for
lencding operations. As a group, the banks have many complementary features,
e.g. extensive branch network, acknowledged project processing capability in a
number of industrial sub-sect:ors, familiarity with term lending and speciali-
zation in agriculture or agroindustries; but individually, except for DIB,
they need assistance to establish strong development lending operations in



- 14 -
agroindustries.  A major objective of the project is to assist in strengthen-
ing each bank's agricultural lending operations.
51.       Bank Misr's participation in the project has been agreed to on the
condition that:  first, it commit the general line of credit under the Fruit
and Vegetable Development Project (Loan 1276 of June 11, 1976) prior to any
commitments under the new project (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1
paragraph 4); second, that it engage a firm or group of competent agroindus-
trial consultants to assist in technical aspects of identification and appraisal
of agroindustrial proposals (Project Agreement with the Participating Banks,
Section 2.02).
52.       Slaughterhouses.  This project component would provide modern
municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria to replace the present
obsolete and hygienically and environmentally hazardous facilities in those
cities. The estimated total cost of the two slaughterhouses (including con-
tingencies) is $22.6 million; about 80 percent would be in foreign exchange.
The new abattoirs will provide custom slaughtering operations designed to
handle the necessary volume, under accepted operating, sanitary and technical
procedures. Cooling capacity will be provided equivalent to 50 percent of one
day's output; this allows some provision for hold over of slaughtered cattle,
while recognizing that the trade in these cities prefers its meat "hot," i.e.
before refrigeration is required.
53.       Wholesale Market Studies.  The main fruit and vegetable markets in
Cairo and Alexandria are too small and poorly located and are increasingly
inadequate to their role. The studies under the project would include:
(i) review of the produce marketing system in Egypt; (ii) marketing and
transport analysis of present distribution systems in the two cities; and
(iii) recommendations on type and location of proposed facilities, together
with preliminary cost estimates, as well as operating procedures.
Implementation
54.       The project will be implemented over five years, 1980-84.  The
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be the Borrower. Of the IDA
credit amount, about $25 million would be earmarked for on-lending to sub-
borrowers for investments in subprojects in the agroindustries sector through
the three designated participating banks. Project funds, however, would not
be allocated among the various banks, but remain available on a first-come,
first-served basis. The Government would maintain the IDA credit account.
IDA would enter into a project agreement with the participating banks, defin-
ing their responsibilities and obligations for carrying out the agroindustries
lending component.  The participating banks would deal directly with IDA on
project technical matters. The Government, as Borrower, would enter into a
subsidiary loan agreement with the participating banks in regard to the terms
and conditions of on-lending to them. The signing of the subsidiary loan
agreements would be a condition of effectiveness (Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(a)).
55.       Similarly, the $18 million (including contingencies) earmarked for
the slaughterhouses would be on-lent by the borrower to the Governorates of



- 15 -
Cairo and Alexandria, and IDA would enter into a project agreement with the
Governorates for implementation of the slaughterhouses and wholesale market
studies, for which about $500,000 from the credit would be made available by
the Government. The agreements would include the provision of qualified
consultants to supervise the construction of the slaughterhouse- (Project
Agreement with the Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria, Section 2.02). The
cost of this consultancy would be financed retroactively by the Association.
The signing of Financing Agreements between the Borrower and each of the two
Governorates would also be a condition of effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).
56.       The three participating banks would each carry out the agroindus-
tries component of the project through designated departments or units and
with qualified management and staff, as well as retaining consultants where
necessary. Each participating bank would establish suitable procedures for
identification and processing of sub-loan applications, as well as for their
appraisal and implementation. By June 30, 1980, each of the banks would
present to IDA a plan for management of the project and an agroindustries
lending program (Project Agreement with the Participating Banks, Section
2.09).
57.       Coordination for tne credit component would be provided by the
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation. The partici-
pating banks have already been meeting informally with each other on the
project, and they would establish regular meetings among themselves for
discussions on matters of common concern.
58.       Slaughterhouses.  The Government, through the Veterinary Department,
has agreed to make substantial improvements in the operation of the new
slauighterhouses. The Veterinary Department will operate in parallel with the
management of the plants reporting to an overall Director together with the
operating plant manager. In the future, the operating managers will have
authority throughout the plants (except for the Veterinary Department), whereas
the present situation depends upon independent work crews.
Technical Assistance
59.       Participating Banks.  Both the participating banks and the agro-
industry subborrowers need technical assistance to implement this project.
The technical assistance to be provided under this project may be summarized
as follows:
(i) PBDAC would employ an experienced firm of consultants to
train senior staff and assist in the organization and manage-
ment of the agroindustries lending program. The estimated
total input is 48 man-months, from services of two or more
experts, at $10,000 per man-month, which provides a slight
premium for the scarcity of experienced consultants in this
field.



- 16 -
(ii) Bank Misr would also engage an experienced firm of consul-
tants, with similar duties for an estimated 36 man-months.
Financing would be provided under the Fruit and Vegetable
Development Project.
(iii) DIB is judged not to need technical assistance in addition
to that provided under previous Banik projects.
60.       Slaughterhouses.  For each abattoir, a senior expert in management
training and operations will be retained. The two experts, who would be
engaged about three months prior to the commencement of operation of the new
slaughterhouses for 18 to 24 months, would advise on training of key personnel
and on organizational, operational and technical matters ( Project Agreement
with the Governorates, Section 2.10). Prior to. the anticipated opening of the
abattoirs, the managers-designate will be enrolled in 12-month work-study
programs overseas. In addition, overseas training programs will be financed
for veterinarians, mechanics and foremen.
61.       Wholesale Market Studies.  It was agreed that consultants acceptable
to IDA would be appointed by September 30, 1980 and it is expected that the
studies would take one year to complete (Project Agreement with the Governor-
ates, Section 2.02(b)).
Relending Terms and Procedures
62.       Credit Component.  The $25 million IDA credit amount allocated
for agroindustries would be available for financing of specific agroindustrial
sub-projects by all of the three participating banks on a first-come, first-
served basis, as an open line of credit. After evaluating the viability of a
sub-project, the participating banks concerned will present to the Association
an agreed short-form description of the sub-project and a request for authori-
zation to withdraw the relevant amount from the proceeds of the IDA credit,
With the exception noted below, the Association would promptly authorize
withdrawal on receipt of the completed forms. For sub-loans exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent (the "free limit"), the banks' withdrawal request will
have to be supported by its appraisal report on the sub-project; the Associa-
tion would authorize withdrawal of funds upon the report being satisfactory.
The Association would also reserve the right to request each of the partici-
pating banks to submit its appraisal reports for a sample of subprojects at or
below the free limit after authorization.
63.       Not less than thirty-three percent of the credit component will be
reserved for financing investments of small subborrowers (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.03).  For the purposes of this project, and unless
otherwise agreed between the Government and the Association, a "small busi-
ness" or "small subborrower" is defined as a subborrower with fixed assets,
excluding lands and buildings, valued at not more than LE 200,000 at the time
of a loan application, and applying for a sub-loan not exceeding $250,000
equivalent.



- 17 -
64.       The terms and conditions of loans or credits by banks are regulated
by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). In June 1978, and again in July 1979, the
maximum interest rates for commercial bank loans and deposits were raised, in
each instance, by one percentage point for most types of loans and deposits.
The maximum i-terest rate for loans to the non-Government sector is now 12
percent and the minimum 10 percent. The CBE's discount rate is now nine
percent.
65.       The annual rates of interest to be charged by the Borrower to the
banks on the IDA credit proceeds would be seven percent for on-lending to
small subborrowers and eight percent for on-lending to others. (The Govern-
ment would provide a little more than one half million dollars for technical
assistance.) The one percent interest differential between these two classes
of subborrowers is intended to compensate the banks for the additional
administrative expenses and risks usually involved in lending to small enter-
prises, and partly as an incentive to them to promote links with such enter-
prises. The banks would on-lend the IDA credit proceeds to subborrowers
at an annual rate of interest of not less than 11 percent. The exchange risk
between Egyptian pounds and US dollars would be borne by the subborrowers.
The Bank's experience is that small investors in Egypt are willing to bear
this risk. The minimum 11 percent on-lending rate is the average of the range
of rates, 10 percent to 12 percent, prescribed by the Central Bank for term
loans in local currency.
66.       Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt.  The wholesale
price index shows increases of 10.3 percent in 1976 and in 1977 and 8.7
percent in 1978. However, the official index is strongly biased by controlled
prices for essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs, and does not
adequately reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where price increases
tend to be significantly higher. Hence, it is difficult to ascertain whether
or not the current interest rates on local currency loans are adequate in
light of inflation. Nevertheless, stabilization policies are currently under
review by the Government, which is also considering further adjustments to the
interest rates. In addition, the effect of the foreign exchange risk should
also be considered, bearing in mind the nominal 11 percent rate of interest.
67.       The participating banks have agreed to make every effort to ensure
that sub-loans would be made to as large a number of sub-borrowers as feasible,
Also, in line with the project objective of encouraging the financing of
private sector investments, not more than 25 percent of the credit component
would be utilized for financing of public sector sub-projects (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). The banks would establish separate minimum
subborrower contributions to the financing of the cost of sub-projects; for
small subborrowers this would preferably be at a lower level of around 15
percent. Sub-loan amortization schedules, appropriate to the individual
project, would not exceed 12 years in any individual case, including grace
periods not exceeding three years. The security or collateral required by
the banks of the subborrowers will be governed by their present, generally
conservative, practices which follow legal or statutory requirements in their
strictest interpretation. As the project implementation proceeds and the
banks gain experience in medium and long-term lending, the Government and



- 18 -
the banks would be expected to examine and adopt more liberal security
requirements, placing greater emphasis on the future financial prospects of
subborrowers and expanding the types of security instruments which will be
acceptable.
68.       Slaughterhouse Component.  The Cairo Governorate slaughterhouse
would receive a loan from the Credit of about $12 million payable over a
period of 25 years (including four years of grace) with an eight percent
interest rate. The Alexandria Governorate would receive a loan from the
Credit of about $3.6 million on the same terms, and $2.4 million in grant
assistance. In addition IDA would provide to the Governorates through the
Government a little less than one million dollars in technical assistance.
The balance of the investment for Cairo and Alexandria will be financed
through budgetary allocations by the Government. The Governorates are
required to charge slaughterhouses fees sufficient to amortize these loans
and to employ engineers for the supervision of slaughterhouses construction
(Project Agreement with the Governorates, Sections 2.11 and 2.02). The
exchange risk would be carried by the Government.
Procurement
69.       Credit Component.  For sub-borrowers' contracts not exceeding
$150,000 equivalent, procurement would be through normal commercial channels.
For subloans involving contracts of or exceeding $150,000, a "prudent shopping"
procedure acceptable to IDA would be followed. It is believed that the system
will provide for adequate competition since most industrial companies are
represented by importers in Egypt.
70.       Slaughterhouse Component.  The two slaughterhouses, costing a
total of $22.6 million (including contingencies), would be procured under ICB
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The tender documents after having
been reviewed by IDA, were issued by the Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria
(in two separate tenders) in May 1979, after advertisements and notification
of embassies. The Governorates have decided to retain consulting engineers to
assist them in evaluation of bids. Assurances have been received that consult-
ing engineers would assist the Governorates in supervising the work of the
contract during the estimated two-year period of construction.
Disbursement
71.       The proposed IDA credit of $45 million is projected to be disbursed
over a four-year period. Withdrawal of the proceeds of the proposed IDA
credit for the agroindustries subprojects would be in accordance with the
following:
(i) For agroindustries sub-borrowers, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures;
(ii) for the slaughterhouses, 100 percent of the foreign exchange
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures;



- 19 -
(iii) for consultants 100 percent of expenditures; and
(iv) for training, 100 percent of expenditures.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       Credit Component.  Major benefits expected from the agroindustries
to be financed under the credit component of the project include:
-    reduction in waste from improved storage, processing and
transport;
-    provision for processing and distributing increased volume
of food staples to serve a growing population;
-    creation of rural employment;
-    extending marketing regions, with potential increase in
producer incomes;
-    improvement in diets from provision of greater variety of
foods available;
-    contribution to balance of payments through encouragement
of export industries, as well as import substitution.
In addition, the project would strengthen the institutional capabilities of
the participating banks through technical assistance.
73.       The agroindustries component of the project involves modernization
and expansion of existing productive facilities as well as creation of new
facilities, with expectation of resulting increases in productivity of the
existing labor force and creation of new employment, respectively. Very rough
calculations have been made of the employment impact of four illustrative
agroindustries models. They show the capital cost per job to be between
LE 10,000 and LE 27,000, reflecting the differences in their capital inten-
sity. These figures are in line with those in a recent Bank study, which
estimated the average cost per job for the mining, manufacturing and distri-
bution sectors at about LE 17,500, which are comparable sectors with respect
to their capital intensity. Based on the four model estimates and giving a
weight of 60 percent for smaller, less capital-intensive ventures, an esti-
mated 2,000 jobs may be expected to be generated by the credit component of
the project. There will be little new employment from the slaughterhouses
(except during construction) as these are replacement projects.
74.       Slaughterhouse Component.  The principal benefit to be derived from
the proposed slaughterhouses would be improved public health through slaughter
under greatly improved conditions of hygiene. In addition, environmental
benefits would arise from correcting the present situation with respect to
untreated effluents, as well as relieving the traffic congestion from live
animals by relocating the abattoirs in more suitable areas. Land released



- 20 -
by the relocation will be used for necessary activities appropriate to the
surroundings. While these benefits are difficult to quantify, they are
substantial, and the Egyptian Government has accorded a high priority to
the replacement of the slaughterhouses. Among other benefits would be better
utilization of by-products, including hide take-offs and conservation of
blood, improved production of tallow, etc. The additional social benefits
to be derived from relocating the Alexandria slaughterhouse include the
cessation of emptying its effluent into the Western Harbor, where sea life has
practically died because of lack of oxygen and the cessation of associated
pollution of adjacent beaches which are a main attraction to the city's large
domestic tourist trade.
75.       Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Market Studies.  The present markets
in these two cities are not able to carry out their functions with any degree
of efficiency, and their relocation would result in a number of benefits:
reduction of wastage; waiting time of vehicles, both in and out; reduction in
traffic congestion in the areas surrounding the market; and value of land
released. The proposed studies will prepare a project to garner these benefits
and will measure the expected benefits.
76.       Financial and Economic Rates of Return.  It is not possible to
give a single average weighted return for the project. A significant share of
the benefits from the slaughterhouse component cannot be quantified and the
returns from the credit component can only, at this time, be indicative.
Specific subprojects to be financed under the credit component are not yet
known. Indicative rates of return for agroindustries of the types likely to
be financed under the project are of the order of 25 percent on total assets
employed and 35 percent on owner's equity (before taxes). These calculations
are based on models of representative actual investments (dairy processing,
block ice, cold store, and egg packing plants). The economic rates of return
are higher than the opportunity cost of capital as shown by analysis of
these four illustrative models, which have economic rates of return ranging
from 32 to over 100 percent. For instance, on the basis of waste reduction of
15 to 30 percent for products cooled in a cold store, the indicative economic
rate of return would range from 32 to 77 percent compared to a financial rate
of return of 24 percent.
77.       A financial rate of return of nine percent is calculated for the
Cairo slaughterhouse, but this modest rate of return does not reflect the
substantial public health benefits described above. Effective slaughter fees
would be raised 43 percent for cattle and by lesser amounts for other species.
The proposed abattoir at Cairo would cover 80 percent of its capital costs at
an interest rate of 8 percent on the sub-loan as well as cover operating and
maintenance costs. Because Alexandria has a lower throughput than Cairo and
does not benefit from economies of scale to the same extent, the recommended
fees are necessarily somewhat higher than Cairo, 1/ but in both cases fees
1/   For cattle LE 5 in Alexandria versus LE 4 in Cairo; for large calves LE 4
versus LE 3; for sheep, LE 1 versus LE 0.75.



- 21 -
have been set low enough to discourage illegal slaughter so as not to under-
mine the project rationale. For this reason, the financial rate of return for
the Alexandria slaughterhouse is about 3 percent but this does not measure the
very substantial indirect benefits of the project (see paragraph 74). The
proposed abattoir at Alexandria would cover all its operating costs as well as
recovering one-half of its capital costs at an interest rate of eight percent
on the sub-loan. Cash flow analysis shows this as the maximum that can be
achieved without assuming an unrealistic and impractical schedule of tariffs
which would encourage illegal slaughtering.
78.       Risk and Sensitivity Analysis.  The major risks in the credit
component are associated with the quality of performance of the participating
banks; but this risk, as far as it is associated with failure to commit and
disburse funds, is minimized by working with three such intermediaries with no
quota for any one. Similarly, the risks associated with the slaughterhouses
are associated with the quality of the management in the Governorates and the
veterinary departments. Provision has been made for consulting advice and
technical training to attempt to minimize this risk. Sensitivity tests on
indicative agroindustry models show that the rates of return for these enter-
prises are rather more sensitive to reductions in revenues than to investment
or operating cost increases of similar magnitude. As a majority of the
enterprises are expected to be in the private sector, they will have some
ability to vary their prices and thereby to be able to cover inflationary
increases in operating costs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association; the draft Project Agreements between the Associa-
tion and each of the Project Entities (Bank Misr, Development Industrial Bank,
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit, Governorate of Cairo,
and Governorate of Alexandria); and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
80.       Proposed conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and the participating banks; and signing of Financing Agree-
ments between the Government and each of the Governorates of
Cairo and Alexandria (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(a) and (b));
(ii) Employment by the Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria of quali-
fied consulting engineers to supervise slaughterhouse construc-
tion (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c)).
Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 22 -
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 20, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-  23  -                                            ANNEX I
?&Se 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LANED AREA (THOUSAND So. DI.E                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          1001i4K.4 )                                             SAME       SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     29.9                                MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                100.0       160.0    310.0           1438.5      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUHPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0       275.0    405.0           816.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       25.8        33.3      39.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0       42.1      44.6            45.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      26.0        33.0      39.0            23.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. (K. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0     1125.0   1311.0            112.4      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.0        42.1      40.7            46.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        54.0        54.7      55.9            50.6       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.2       3.4             3.3        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.6       2.2             2.9        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             6.0         3.6       3.6             5.0        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.5        42.1      37.8            45.0       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.7        17.0      14.0            13.7       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.8 /f      3.0       3.0             3.4        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PIANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       206.0    184.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WDMEN)   ..         9.0      21.1            14.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970.100)            93.5       100.0    100.0            107.1       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       106.0    113.0             99.2       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         66.0        66.0      70.7            63.4       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0 &      16.0      16.0            16.4       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    39.3          ..        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.9        49.9      52.4            53.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         109.0       116.0    100.0             77.7      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-          *-      74.8            59.1       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              ..          ..      87.7            85.9       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              *-          *-      63.7            38.0       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            64.3       16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            94.5       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            27.7        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2500.0 /h   1910.0   1820.0 /i        4271.6   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2730.0 Eh  1640.0 /I 1520.0 /i        2077.4    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           500.0 /h   460.0    460.0             580.2    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..       290.0    250.0            310.0      183.3       278.4
RURAL                                      2110.0   2090.0               ..    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            22.0       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEWLD
TOTAL                             5.0          ..       5.2             5.4        5.2
URBAN                             4.8          ..       5.0              ..        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.5              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.9          ..       1.8
URBAN                             1.6          ..        ..             1.8        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            38.0          ..      45.7            40.3       25.9        28.3
URBAN                            37.8          ..      77.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      19.6            12.2         ..        10.3



-  24  -                                             MflIEX l
Pan. 2 ef 5
TULE 3A
EGYPT -SlCaL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RYFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EGYPT                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAKE        SANE      NEXT NICNER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         69.0       72.0             80.8       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                52.0        53.0       55.0             61.8        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0         33.0       40.0             23.6        14.4        17.7
FEMALE                 9.0        21.0       28.0             18.2         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 22.0          19.0       18.0              6.7         6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0       40.0             31.5        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                           16.0        25.0       29.0             22.3        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         20.0          ..       40.0             50.1        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.0        6.0             14.5        3.1           7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0        132.0      140.0            125.8        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9        16.0       17.0             34.5         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        22.0         ..             17.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            2.0        ..              1.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7800.0 /1   8300.0 /k 9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3         7.2        7.6              9.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               57.0 /i     53.0 /k   43.9              42.0        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2         18.8         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9        28.0       28.0             26.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  53.2        51.5       51.3             46.6        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 4.2         4.1        4.3              5.3        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         1.8        1.8              1.9         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.2 /1         ..       21.0 /             ..        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  48.4 /1         ..       46.0 7             ..        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 /I         ..        5.2 /             ..         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.1 L          *-       16.0 /             ..        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      154.0               ..        88.5       155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      112.0            142.0        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      122.0            236.1       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           .        60.0            144.7        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       22.0             21.5        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       30.0             37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for ech indicator are population-weighted geooetric mans, excluding the extrem
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/     North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;  La  1960-62;   /h  1962;  Li Registered, not all
practicing in the country; /1 Relates to persons six years and over, excluding nomad population;
/k Relates to 12-64 years of age. 1966; /1 1964-65; /n rural only.
September, 1978



- 25 -
EX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                    Page  3
Note   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator oad the _t
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Eaporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple populatLon-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
lAND AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, mrket and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sietent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERfY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of couzasrolal energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Averese size of.househol  (persons Per hous.ehold) - total, urban, and rural -
POPUL.ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A  oousehold consists of a group of individuala who share Liv ing quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not av-ilable,                   and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
hrban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total populs-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings occlude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. kh. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kh. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female esro1lmnst of all ages
growth rat.s of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively prItary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and fIve-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instructian; pro-
cod five-year average ending in. 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Cross reproduiction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institution. in.-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Froilv planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       prImary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Farily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                        eponding levels.
married  -rmen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
loden of fond production per capita (1970-l05) - Index number of per                   Passenger care (per thousand population) - P.asenger cars co=prise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                     seating less than eight persona; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capit.              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since-ost countries
quice.ents were estimated by FAD based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of Protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average cirools-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news,  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grass                   be "daily" if it appears at leant four times a wask.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema annual attendance per capit. Per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 gras of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissi.n.  to dri-e-in cinema.  and mobile
23 grams of animal protein ax an average for the world, prcpo.ed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply nf food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Eoososically active perosms, including aroed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stodonts, etc.   Defii-
and in age group 1-4 yearn, to children in this age group.                              tior  in various countries are not comp-rable.
Female (Percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lifr expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of yearn of life                        as parcest.ag  of total labor farce.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, conntruction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor firo.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants ,under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, ..le, and
one year o,f age per thousand live birhts.                                               esale labor force us percentages of their respective populatic,s.
Access to safe water (percent of Population) - total, uban, and rural - tbn are IL'  adjpuatd pirticipation rsts  reflecting age-sec
lumber of peuple (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable acs  to                       t-toccre of rho popr.i-c. and long clan trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Eco.noic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncon,asinated water such as that from protected boreboles, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeas.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or stndpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 seters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  tercentage of prir-te income (both in  -ash and kind) received by richest 5
uonable access of that hoose.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest i0 percent
imply that the housewife or menbers of the household do not have to                     of households
pe,nd a disproporti.nate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e-creta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (US) per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                      Absolute poverty isc-me level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as peroentages of their respective populations.  Ecreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plo  es6ential non-food requirements is not
disycool say include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
trect-nt, of human eacreta and wastr-water by water-borne systems                    futimated relative poverty income level (tS$ per cpita) - urban and cri1
-r tho use of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that ino    lev    leas  than onder-third
Population yet physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of the country.
physiciars qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Populatioc per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relat'ive poor" whichever is greater.
assistant mtres'
Economic and Sicial Data Division
Econo=ic Analysis and Projections Department



-26                                    ANNEX I
PAge 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA (1978)-uS$400                                            MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Bank Atlas Methodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       7.                    1961-66 1/        1967-74 1/        1975-78 2/
GNP at Market Prices               13,600       100.0                       5.4               3.6             13.3
Gross Domestic Investment           3,590        26.4                      10.7              5.4              24.9
Current Account Balance            -1,760        12.9
Export of Goods, NFS                3,530        26.0                       4.3               6.2              7.8
Import of Goods, NFS                6,490        47.7                       8.8              9.2               7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                  Labor Force 3/              V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                 Mln.      %                US $           %
Agriculture                         3,350        28.7               4.135   41.1                  810        15.7
Industry 4/                         3,460        29.6               1.902   18.9                1820         35.4
Distributive Sector                 2,340        20.0               1.560   15.5                 1500        29.1
Services                            2,530        21.7               2.472   24.5                 1020        19.8
Total/Average              11680/2920       100.0             10,069  100.0                 1160       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 5/
US$ Mln.           % of GNP
1978         1974         1978
Current Receipts                    5,310           33.9          39.1
Current Expenditure                 4,640           34.0          34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit               670           -0.1           4.9
Capital Expenditures                3,310           13.8          24.3
External Financing (net)            1,140             3.3          8.4
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1973         1974         1975         1976          1977         1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     1207         1515         1883         2417          3185         4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector              1852         2338         3527         4123          4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector              102          149          230          251           434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         31.7         36.1         38.5          38.5         43.4         47.5
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)   100.0            112.4        119.1        131.4         145.0        157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                     10.4         12.4          6.0         10.3          10.3          8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector               9.6         26.2         50.9         16.9          15.8         26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector             10.9         46.1         54.4          9.1          72.9         31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496 = 1 LE.
1/ At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977      1978                                       US$ Mln.   %
(US$ million)
Cotton                      354       19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,194       2,759      3,537     3,530          Yarn and Textiles            364       20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          -4,931      -4,910    -5,486    -6,490           Petroleum                    442       24.7
Other Agriculture           224       12.5
Imports of Foreign               -140        -240      -330       -290          All other commodities        405       22.6
Oil Companies
Total               1,789      100.0
Workers' Remittances              366         755        894     1,760
Other Factor Services (Net)      -104        -202      -205       -270
Net Factor Services               262         553        689     1,490
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT), DECEMBER 31, 1978
Balance on Current Account    -2,615       -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amortization                     -600        -734      -812       -900                                            US$ Mln.
Total Deficit                  -3,215                -2,402    -2,660
Public debt, incl. guaranteed  9 970 1/
Repayments on public debt          900
Direct Foreign Investment         140         300       434        440          Interest on public debt             390
Grants                          1,076         792       445        345
MLT Borrowing                   2,509       1,622     3,027      2,585
3,725      2,714      3,906      3,370
'                       ~~~~~~~DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 2/  23.7%
Other Capital 'Net)              -152         236      -961       -495
Residual                         -420       -333       -348       -145
Tncrease in Reserves (+)          -62          45       195         71
Gross Reserves tend year)          294        339        534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
of which: Petroleum         -477        -385      -250       -200
Eyports
of which: Petroleum          164         268       600        730
1/ $10,590 million as of July 31, 1979.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services,
February 4, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                     Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                      less cancellations
Numbers            FY        Borrower        Purpose                                 Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR           60          SCA            Suez Canal ExpaPsion                   56.5      --           --
Cr 181-UAR            70         UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                      --    26.0            2.1
Cr 284-UAR           72          ARE            Railways I                              --    30.0            1.0
Cr 393-UAR           73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                            36.0           4.6
Cr 412-UAR           73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/           --    15.0            0.3
Cr 423-UAR           74          ARE            Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation           --    18.5            3.5
Cr 437-UAR           74          ARE           Population                               --      5.0           0.2
Cr 484-UAR           74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                        --    20.0            0.6
Cr 524-EGT           75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                           --    35.0            0.3
Ln 1062-EGT           75         ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          35.0      --           1.2
Ln 1064-EGT           75         SCA            Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0      --          27.5
Ln 1085-EGT          75          ARE           Tourah Cement                           40.0      --           4.3
Ln 1098-EGT          75          ER             Railways II                            37.0      --          10.7
Cr 548-EGT           75          ARE           Telecommunications                       --    30.0            3.7
Cr 576-EGT           76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0                0.5
Ln 1239-EGT          76          APA           Alexandria Port                         45.0      --          33.8
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76           ARE            Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0      --          43.2
Cr 637-EGT           76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                  --    40.0           24.5
Ln 1285-EaT           76         ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0      --          10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76          ARE            Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0      --          38.4
Ln 1369-ECT          77          AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                 56.0      --47.3
Cr 681-EGT           77          ARE            Education                               --    25.0            6.1
Cr 719-EGT           77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                   --    27.0          '13.9
Ln 1439-EGT          77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0      --          27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77           ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0      --          12.0
Ln 1453-EGT           77         EEA            Regional Electrification               48.0      --          30.5
Ln 1456-EGT           77         ARE            Industrial Imports                     70.0      --          40.0
Ln 5-005-EGT          77         ARE            Iron Ore Beneficiation and              2.5      --           1.1
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT          78          SCA            Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0      --          44.8
Cr 5-20-EGT          78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                 --      2.0           0.3
Cr 774-EGT           78          ARE           Telecommunications II                    --    53.0           53.0
Ln 1533-EGT          78          DIB           Development Industrial bank III         40.0      --          30.2
Cr 830-EGT           78          ARE           Agricultural Development                 --    32.0           32.0
Cr 831-EGT           78          ARE           Urban Development                        --    14.0           13.7
Cr 850-EGT           79          ARE           Second Population                        --    25.0           24.9
Cr 868-EGT           79          ARE           Second Education                         --    40.0           39.5
La S-14-EGT          79          ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering    11.0
and Technical Assistance                                    8.3
Cr 909-EGT            79         ARE            Tourisml/                               --    32.5           32.5
Ln 1732-EGT          79          ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0                  75.0
Cr 935-EGT           79          ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima                              37.0          37.0
Thermal Power 3/
Lni 1733-EGT         79          EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima                     102.0      --         102.0
Thermal Power 3/ 5/
Totals                                                                               919.0  565.o           881.5
Of which has been repaid                                                               58.5
Total now outstanding                                                                 860.5
Amount sold                                                              7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                 7.4            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        860.4  568.0          881.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business                      Loan          Equity        Total
1976          Arab Ceramic Company         Ceramic Industry                      4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977           Nile Clothing Company       Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.40           0.20          0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                       20.0            2.00        22.00
1979           Ismailia Misr Poultry       Food and Food             (Plus 1.0 standby commitment)          (23.00)
Company                     Processing                          5.97           1.52          7.49
1979           Ismailia Fish Farming       Food and Food                         1.929            .453        2.382
Company                     Processing              (Plus 0.1 contigency commitment)       (2.482)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/  Third Window Loan.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.
5/ Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0 million.



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. 'PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1"S0
Work on surface drains (1,700 km in about 950,000 feddans) is complete
and all eleven pumping stations are operational. Progress on field drainage
has been slow due to various reasons, including inadequate construction
management by contractors, shortage of cement (1978) and uncertainty as to
full allocation of needed local funds. However, full completion of the
project is expected to be achieved by the end of December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items has been slow. An assurance by ER has
been given that work will be completed in time to enable disbursement of the
remaining $1.0 million of funds under the Credit by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Remodelling/excavation of open drains (1,640 km in 300,000 feddans)
is nearly complete. Construction of five pumping stations is 80 percent com-
plete. The Credit's closing date has recently been extended to July 31, 1981
to accommodate slow progress on installation of sub-surface drains due to
various factors including inadequate management by contractors and sugar
cane cropped in 50 percent of the project area. As of December 31, 1980,
this activity had been completed in about 60 percent of the planned area.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule.  Procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30C, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in early 1981 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is
expected to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign costs of the project ($43.8
million) have remained basically unchanged since all procurement has been
completed or is in an advanced stage, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works and delays
because of shortage of local funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974- Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication, the project is expected to be commissioned by
mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of delays in civil
works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: Pecember 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.4 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Discussions are presently taking place with the
Government regarding the utilization of the uncommitted funds prior to the
closing date which has been extended by one year.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date:  April 21, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
F'ebruary 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow.  The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. Recommendations from a study by consultants are designed
to improve the rolling stock maintenance situation. Track maintenance is
lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contained many large investments



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 33 million was recorded for 1978.
Substantial freight tariff increases approved in 1979 should ameliorate the
situation, and proposals for increases in passenger fares are currently being
considered by the Government. A draft decree which would establish a National
Railway authority aims to give the railways inter alia considerably more
autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications ProJect; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Develoment Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date:  October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.4 million has been dis-
bursed as of January 25, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, ~1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work on surface drains (1,602 km in 500,000 feddans) is about
55 percent complete. Progress on field drainage has fallen 30 percent behind
appraisal schedule,mainly because of a delay of some two years with the supply
and erection of USAID financed equipment for three PVC pipe manufacturing
factories. It is expected that these factories will become operable between
February and May 1980. Seven contracts for installation of tile drains in the
entire project area (500,000 feddans) have been let out. Procurement is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Delays have occurred in implementing two main components (pipelines
and water treatment plant extensions) of this project. Pipeline construction
is now out for rebid (after a false start) and the civil works bid documents
are being finalized for the treatment plants; meanwhile pipes for the former
have been delivered and equipment for the latter is being manufactured and
delivery may commence shortly. Proposals for data processing equipment and
training have been called for. Meter replacement to improve AWA's operations
continues at a satisfactory pace.  An application for a general tariff increase
is with the Governor for consideration by the Alexandria Local Council but
approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All'technical assistance



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
contracts have been awarded and most of the fellowship and specialist assign-
ments have been completed. Ninety percent of equipment and furniture under
the project has been procured. Technical problems had been encountered with
the construction of the two technical institutes which needed to be redesigned,
resulting in a two year delay for this project item; and consequently, these
were transferred to Credit 868. However, the other 45 institutions are either
operational or are expected to open classes with only minor delays in the
schedule.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, implementation
is behind schedule. Construction of surface drains (1,565 km in 810,000 fed-
dans) is about 30 percent complete. Contracts for construction of four new,
and renovation of two existing, pumping stations were awarded in November 1979.
Progress on field drainage (400,000 feddans) will depend on KfW financed PVC
pipe manufacturing factory for which consultants were appointed in October 1979
to select the site and to prepare tender documents. As commissioning of this
factory will be achieved about one year behind scheduled completion of
December 1979, it may accordingly defer full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July_15, 1977;,Effe-ctive Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study has
started. Consultants for the distribution companies have been engaged. All
contracts for technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT.- Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November,7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of January 25, 1980, about $29.5 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective'Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979. Project definition is evolving and preliminary discussions of possible
issues have started.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
January 25, 1980, $8.8 million had been disbursed and $32.2 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by the first
quarter of 1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by April 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date:  February 20,,1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Project implementation has started.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
All equipment lists and specifications have been approved; tenders
have been advertised and procurement is underway. All technical assistance
has been contracted. Of 21 institutions to be constructed, two have been
completed, eight are from 15 to 70 percent complete, and the remainder are
ready to be contracted.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effective Date: October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement of mining equipment is underway and laboratory tests of
phosphate rock are being carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
As action on effectiveness is still underway, effectiveness date has
been extended to March 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project became effective on January 29, 1980; project implementation
has started.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
El Kheima Thermal Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 8, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
As action on effectiveness is still underway, effectiveness date was
extended by 90 days.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare project:                     16 months (February 1978 to May 1979)
(b)  Agencies preparing project:            The Bank in cooperation with the
Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank:                        February 1978
(d)  Date of preparation mission:           July 1978
(e)  Date of departure of
appraisal mission:                   April 1979
(f)  Date of completion of
negotiations:                        January 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         August 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of credit effectiveness:
Ci) Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the participating banks and the execution
of Financing Agreements between the Government and each
of the two Governorates (Cairo and Alexandria) (paragraphs
54, 55 and 80);
(ii) Employment by each of the two Governorates (Cairo and Alexandria)
of qualified consulting engineers to supervise construction
(paragraphs 55 and 80).
2.        Other conditions:
Ci) Not less than 33 percent of the IDA credit proceeds allocated
for agroindustries would be reserved to finance investments



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
of small subborrowers; not more than 25 percent of the
credit proceeds would be used for public sector sub-
projects (paragraphs 63 and 67);
(ii) the abattoirs would charge slaughter fees sufficient to
amortize the loans for those facilities (paragraph 68);
(iii) the Governorates would each retain a senior expert in
management training and operations for each of the abattoirs
(paragraph 60);
(iv) by June 30, 1980, each participating bank would present
to IDA an organizational plan and an argoindustry lend-
ing program (paragraph 56); and
(v) a further condition of commitment of project funds through
Bank Misr is that the bank first commit the funds allocated
under the general credit component of the Fruit and Vegetable
Development Project (Loan 1276 of June 11, 1976) (paragraph 51).






SC                                 30                                  DebAsE      JO'~~~V                                         3
__E_;T RRAEA AN          SEA                       A
O  8  QAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1MILBIYA p   ,-r
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rXNrr s1 .us SH Er \                                                               Aoo4RC'g  .
OW,,-'  -. -5,
CAZS          CAIRO
El--->  -        ----
-20'                                                                                 N
/          %S~~~~~OHAG            ' ''     "
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT                                                                                           T.
M.Io,)                                                                              rrmu&o
.Mraior roads                                          ,                                              \ 
Railwoys                                                 h-i irraJ
-     Approsiorasa gover-ora-e bo-d-ries -
_._    lsearnoaa -l boundaries
o    Mojor citis   d taowos
'-t        Bl  ars                                                                                                         ,
-  z    ~ Wadis                                                                                                   ASWAN
o   20  00  60  80   OCt uru
-O~ 20  C,.' er
N'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
>   A r  5  u      sYRA               A Ni                            ;i                                                                           - '
<A                  S A     ARABIA             !      -  *                                                        7      - .
~~7 i--                J2



