Document of                  FILE  COPY
The World Bank 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2653-EdT
EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 6, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)    =         US$1.43
US$1.00                   -        LE 0.7
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 feddan (fd)             =        1.04 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg            =        2.2 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PB        -          Participating Bank
PBDAC     -          Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit
DIB       -          Development Industrial Bank
USAID     -          U.S. Agency for International
Development
PT        -          Piastre (100 PT = LE 1.00)
CY        -          Calendar Year
FY        -          Fiscal Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     PROJECT  BACKGROUND  ...................................                                       1
A.     Project  History  .................................                                     I
B.     The  Agricultural  Sector  .........................                                    1
C.     Role  of  Agroindustry  ............................                                    2
D.     Overview  of  Agroindustries  in  Egypt  ....                       .........           3
E.     Previous  Loans  ..................................                                     7
II.      THE  BANKING  SECTOR  ...................................                                      8
A.   Financial Institutions and Agroindustries
Credit  ........................................                                   8
B.      Interest  Rates  ..................................                                   9
C.     Participating  Banks  .............................                                    9
DIB  ........................................................                       9
PBDAC  .........................................                                  11
Bank Misr  .....................................                                  12
III.      THE  PROJECT  ..........................................                                      13
A.     Objectives  ......................................                                    13
B.     Description  .....................................                                    13
Credit  Component  ..............................                                 13
Slaughterhouses  ...............................                                  14
Wholesale  Markets  .............................                                 17
C.     Summary  of  Project  Costs  ........................                                 18
D.     Financing  .......................................                                    20
E.      Implementation  Schedule  .........................                                  21
F.     Procurement  .....................................                                    21
Credit Component ................                                                 21
Consultants  ...................................                                  21
Slaughterhouses  ...............................                                  21
G.      Disbursements  ...................................                                   22
H.     Environmental  Impact  ............................                                   22
This document has a restricted distriboution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disctosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................                23
A.   Organization and Management .....................               23
The Borrower ..................................              23
The Credit Component ..........................              23
Slaughterhouses Component .....................              25
B.   Technical Assistance ............................               27
C.   Studies for Wholesale Markets ....           ...............    30
D.   On-Lending Procedures and Terms and Conditions ..               30
E.   Accounts and Audits .............................               33
F.   Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation ....          .......     33
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................                34
A.   Credit Component ................................               34
B.   Slaughterhouses .................................               35
C.   Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Markets ....          .......     35
D.   Beneficiaries ...................................               35
E.   Financial and Economic Rate of Return ....          .......     36
Slaughterhouses ...............................             37
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis ....          .............    37
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....            ...........    38
ANNEX 1 - Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File 40



EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Project History
1.01      The project, for which an IDA credit of US$45 'million is proposed,
comprises: (i) a credit component of US$25 million to small and medium sized
agroindustries; (ii) funds and technical assistance for strengthening inter-
mediary financing institutions to better serve such agroindustries; (iii)
funds for the replacement of the municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and
Alexandria; and (iv) studies for the replacement of the main fruit and vege-
table wholesale markets in those cities. The project was identified and
prepared by Bank staff in 1978 in cooperation with Egyptian authorities,
and appraised in April/May 1979 by Messrs. R. Hing, A. Bose, E. Nagele, and
M. Sulieman.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Egyptian agriculture is based upon some 6.5 million feddans of irri-
gated land, virtually all of which is double cropped, and farmed in small
plots with traditional methods. Many crops are subject to price and quota
controls. Government policy has emphasized production of cotton and rice,
thereby largely determining the role of other crops within rotational and
subsistence requirements. Basically, the winter rotation is clover and wheat
followed by cotton, rice, and maize in the summer. In terms of area, the
leading crops may be ranked: berseem clover, maize, cotton, wheat, rice, and
vegetables. 1/ Agriculture is the largest sector in the Egyptian economy,
currently contributing about 25% of the GDP, employing about 41% of the labor
force, and providing about 27% of the country's annual export earnings
directly, and another 18% indirectly (the principal agricultural export
continues to be cotton; with rice, oranges, and potatoes contributing much
lesser percentages). Agricultural output grew by only 2% per annum over the
period 1952-1975, considerably less than the growth rate of population (2.4%);
as a result, food imports have been increasing, especially wheat and wheat
flour, vegetable oils, and sugar (despite a large and growing sugar industry)
with consequent increased vulnerability to overseas food sources and prices.
Because Egypt has virtually no land area suitable only for grass or forage
production, livestock compete directly with cash crops and cereal grains for
the limited agricultural land resource. There is a major shortage of roughage
1/   For additional details see:  Egypt:  Agricultural Sector Memorandum,
August 24, 1978, and Volume 3 of Egypt, Economic Management in a Period
of Transition, May 8, 1978.



- 2 -
for livestock during the summer season when berseem clover is replaced in
the rotation by cotton, rice, and maize. Traditionally, cattle and buffalo
totalling some 4.3 million animals have not been independent from crop produc-
tion but played an intermediate role, with crops as the final output and meat
and milk as residuals. With draft power now becoming increasingly supplied by
tractors, and with no control on meat prices, there has been a steady increase
in meat production over the last 20 years, which is likely to continue so
long as there is no significant change in pricing policies. Sheep and goats,
totalling over 3 million head are also a major source of meat. Camel meat
is mainly consumed by the lowest income groups. Approximately 170,000 tons of
meat is derived each year from these herds, 30% of which is estimated to be
slaughtered outside controlled abattoirs. In addition, imported animals and
meat contribute a further 70,000 tons. Domestic poultry provide another
160,000 tons of meat.
C. Role of Agroindustry
1.03      Related directly to the existing profile of Egypt's agricultural
and livestock sectors, but limited by the country's general level of advance-
ment, is the agroindustries subsector. Its basic task, at this time and in
the near future, is to get more food from farmers and overseas sources to
consumers through basic functions which reduce waste, extend marketing regions
and generally contribute to lower costs and greater quantities of food
produced, distributed and consumed. This means efficient primary processing
and milling of staples such as grain (rice, wheat, sorghum, maize), vegetable
oil, sugar, and poultry products; new and improved local storage (for grain
and for perishable food products) as well as the provision of economical
transport modes, and the development of input industries such as animal feed.
Secondary functions of agroindustries are to process non-food agricultural
commodities (tanneries, for example) and to provide facilities for exporting
products in which Egypt has a comparative advantage (fruits and vegetables;
essential oils). The role of agroindustry being to increase the productivity
of the agricultural sector, a major index of its performance (by no means the
only one) would be its efficiency in terms of minimizing post harvest losses.
While it is difficult to estimate post harvest losses with precision, it is
estimated that for planning purposes 10% may be cited as an average minimal
post harvest loss for cereal grains and legumes, and about 20% as the minimum
for perishables and fish. 1/ Although there are no such independently estab-
lished ratios for Egypt, the above are believed to be plausible estimates.
1.04      Capital Needs for Agroindustries.  Egypt's agroindustry subsector
does not have the facilities with which to fulfill its roles. In the recent
past, it has been starved of investment or even maintenance funds; coupled
1/   National Academy of Science, Post Harvest Food Losses in Developing
Countries, Washington, D.C., 1978.



with the need to service the large and expanding population, this has resulted
in a very large aggregate need for investment funds. While much of the need
is concentrated in the capital intensive industries (such as sugar refining
and vegetable oil milling) in the public sector, the Government's policy of
encouraging decentralization and growth of the private sector has resulted in
demand for funds especially by entrepreneurs moving out of traditional crops
subject to strict price controls into new and expanded enterprises in such
activities as dairy processing, cold stores, poultry plants, and the like.
The availability of medium term funds to such private sector enterprises is
very limited (whereas the public sector does have some access to Government
budget funds), and the project aims to increase the flow of funds in this
respect, as well as to alleviate the urgent need on the part of some public
sector activities, specifically, the replacement of the Cairo and Alexandria
municipal abattoirs.
D. Overview of Agroindustries in Egypt
1.05      There is no comprehensive census of agroindustries, nor of the
effective capacity of large or small scale facilities which may be obsolete
or ill maintained. Also, rural areas, which contain about one-half the
population, are mostly self-sustaining with respect to the agroindustrial
functions, apart from cooking oil and sugar; that is to say trading areas are
small. Because of this lack of data, it is not feasible to calculate invest-
ment needs by comparing capacity and consumption figures; also, the localized
nature of many agroindustries does not permit useful generalizations with
respect to sufficiency of overall installed capacity. The basis of estimating
demand for the proposed project rests on the work of the preparation missions
which have identified considerable unsatisfied demand for small agroindustries
credit as a result of field interviews in various Governorates. 1/
1.06      Role of the State in Agroindustry. As with so much of Egypt's
economy, the state's involvement in agroindustrial activities is widespread
and complex.   Some of the principal agencies involved are as follows: the
Ministry of Agriculture (in addition to its other activities) operates poul-
try, feedstuff, and fertilizer plants and has jurisdiction over cooperatives;
who may operate cold stores, packing plants, and the like; the Ministry of
Industry oversees the Higher Council of Foodstuffs, 2/ associated with the
1/   Report on Small Agroindustries in Egypt, August 1978, by E. G. Shoreibah,
contains profiles of 50 businesses interviewed in Fayoum, Sharkia, and
Alexandria Provinces.
2/   Formerly, Egyptian Organization for Food Industries (EOFI), which was
replaced under the new policy of decentralization. The function of the
Council is to prepare a Five-Year Plan of investment needs for public
sector companies for submission to Government, to recommend priorities,
and to distribute funds.



- 4 -
General Organization for Industry (GOFI), which has 21 companies under its
umbrella. The Ministry of Supply largely controls grain storage, milling5
and imported foodstuffs; the Ministry of Commerce has jurisdiction over export
companies (citrus, vegetables, essential oils, etc.); the Ministry of Planning
allocates budgets for all new public investments.  The Governorates own and
operate wholesale markets, abattoirs, and other facilities. Furthermore,
there are split jurisdictions (e.g., the Ministry of Supply can veto requests
by the Ministry of Agriculture to increase poultry prices); there are spin-offs
(when state organizations are transformed into autonomous state companies);
there are joint ventures between state and private sector; and there are occa-
sional transfers of authority between ministries. This system can be verv
cumbersome for public sector companies, whose procurement, production. and
marketing functions may be subject to separate jurisdictions with consequent
difficulty in coordination. Nevertheless, new developments in Egypt are such
that a private company can get into business with relatively little red tape,
beyond the formalities of a license from GOFI and, in some cases, an alloca-
tion of raw materials from the Ministry of Supply.
1.07      Major agroindustry activities in Egypt may be summarized as follows.
Grain Storage and Cereal Processing. In 1976/77, about 3.5 million tons of
wheat were imported into Egypt, 1 million tons of which were handled through
the existing port silo complex at Alexandria. A master plan for the develop-
ment of the storage and distribution system for food grains estimates that
Egypt will require by the year 2000 a total grain storage capacity of about
2.6 million metric tons for an annual throughput of about 9.4 million tons
and a total capital cost exceeding US$670 million in 1977 dollars. The high
capital investment of terminal grain elevators (silos) is beyond the scope
of this project, but there are numerous open-air grain storage facilities
in Egypt which could qualify for low cost investments to reduce losses from
birds, rodents, spillage, and ground damp. In addition to basic storage
operations, the milling of cereals, bread baking, and macaroni making are
among the major agroindustries in Egypt. Besides a great number of small
mills in the traditional sector which mill locally produced w#heat, 185 public
sector flour mills are processing mostly imported wheat under the supervision
of one of the eight Egyptian Government milling companies. These mills had
in 1977 the capacity to process 3.3 million tons of wheat or 11,125 tons/day,
with an output of 8-9,000 tons of flour per day, 60% of which went into pub-
lic sector bakeries. The balance of the flour goes to private sector bakeries
producing Egyptian and European type bread. Prices of bread are fixed at
low levels with the help of Government subsidies. The numbers of bakeries
making European type bread is increasing at a fast pace because these
bakeries use part of their quota of Government subsidized flour to make
cakes and pastry, the prices of which are not fixed. The number of bakeries
is expected to increase because a large segment of the rural population find
it more convenient to buy cheap bread than to bake at home. This is an
activity anticipated to be financed under this project.  Macaroni is the
second most important wheat product after bread and a substitute for higher
priced rice. About three quarters of the annual production of 180,000 tons
of macaroni is produced in 55 private sector factories and the balance in 12
public sector factories. Since macaroni is a food staple, it is anticipated



that the number of macaroni factories will increase in line with the anticipa-
ted rate of growth of the population.
1.08      Edible Oils.  This industry reportedly accounts for one-fifth the
output value of the food sector in Egypt and is rated a high priority with the
Higher Council. Production of edible oil has been falling in Egypt due to
cutbacks in cotton area and availability of cottonseed, and imports have been
increasing. Major raw materials, besides cottonseed, are flax seed, sesame,
sunflower, and olives. The public sector is responsible for the great bulk of
vegetable oils production , but there are at least four small private mills.
There are, however, private companies engaged in the business of blending and
bottling hydrogenated oils. While financing of new plants is likely to be
beyond the scope of this project, suitable sub-projects might include addi-
tional bottling facilities to reduce product loss in retail distribution, as
well as (urgent) renovations to existing plants to be evaluated on a case by
case basis. Sugar Mills. Egypt's 1977 production of sugar was 637,000 tons,
and consumption 832,000 tons. The shortfall of approximately 200,000 tons was
imported. Projections based on a population increase of 2.4% p.a. and per
capita consumption increase of 3% p.a. show that Egypt will have a continued
shortfall of sugar through 1990 and beyond. This expected shortfall will
continue despite two major sugar projects, the beet sugar project sponsored by
Delta Sugar Co. (with IFC participation) of 100,000 tons at full production,
and the Balyana cane sugar project of 150,000 tons (expected full production
by 1988). It should be noted that a sugar mill of 100,000 tons capacity will
cost about US$40-US$60 million. While the economies of scale of this industry
do not make it appropriate for inclusion in this project, minor but important
projects for replacement and modernization might be considered, as for example,
mechanization of handling systems in existing factories. Such projects would
be assessed on their merits. Other Capital Intensive Agroindustries. Egypt's
needs for starch and glucose, fertilizer, insecticides, maize flour, alfalfa
pelletization, as well as full line feed plants are not intended to be met
through this project, as they are capital intensive industries with high
capital demands per investment. As in the cases of sugar and edible oils,
this project would be limited to considering minor renovations or additions of
an urgent nature.
1.09      Dairy Products.  Egypt produces 2.15 million tons of fresh milk a
year out of which 34% is available for processing at current fresh market
prices at 12 to 15 Pt./kg. The dairy products industry includes the produc-
tion of pasteurized milk, cheese (white, hard, processed), butter, ice cream,
yogurt, and others. The private sector produced 80% of total output in 1977
(with the exception of pasteurized and concentrated milk which is presently
monopolized by Government owned companies) and it is expected that numbers of
small investments will be financed under the project. The main constraints to
the further development of this industry are unproductive dairy farms, a defi-
cient storage system, and insufficient cheese processing equipment. Another
major constraint to increasing fluid milk production is the inadequate state
of the animal feed industry. Poor packaging and distribution of dairy prod-
ucts significantly affect the quality of the final products and farmers are



- 6 -
unable to deliver additional fluid milk to the processors because of inade-
quate milk cooling facilities and transportation. Imports of powdered milk
were 20,000 tons (1978), and are expected to increase. Meat, Fish, and Eggs.
Consumption of these products in 1977 was: meat 240,000 tons; poultry 168,000
tons; fish 213,000 tons. Percentages imported were, respectively, 21%, 5%,
and 27%. Egg consumption was estimated at 65,000 tons. Associated agro-
industries are slaughterhouses, tanneries, cold stores and ice making plants,
fish meal plants, egg packing plants, and associated feed mills, trucking,
and wholesale market facilities. Poultry feed in Egypt is based on mainly
imported maize and soybean meal. Animal feed is based on cotton seed cake,
rice bran, wheat grain husks, molasses, yellow corn, and trace elements. Meat
slaughtering facilities are mainly in the hands of Governorates which service
private owners and they are invariably in very poor repair (hence, the inclu-
sion in the project of the replacement of the Cairo and Alexandria slaughter-
houses). Substantial numbers of animals are illegally slaughtered. Tanneries,
which are mostly small, are mainly in the private sector. Poultry enterprises
are in both public and private sectors, with many hundreds of small operations
(especially broilers). The private sector handles about 90% of the fresh fish
marketed. About one-third of the total supply of fish goes to Cairo. The
handling, distribution, and marketing systems for fish are grossly inadequate
in Egypt. Much is transported fresh, with insufficient ice, and packed too
tight. Salted as well as canned products are of poor quality. Accordingly,
many opportunities exist for improving the quality of fish reach-
ing the consumer.
1.10     Cold Storage.  The capacity of existing cold storage facilities at
the end of 1978 was estimated at 30,000 to 40,000 metric tons and according to
a USAID study, an additional 70,000 to 80,000 metric tons are required by the
year 2000. More than 80% of the existing capacity is in Alexandria, Port
Said, and Suez, about 10% in the Cairo area, and the balance in the provinces.
It appears that most of the new cold storage facilities are also planned to be
built in the coastal areas, thereby further contributing to the regional
imbalance.  New cold stores now being built---all of 10,000 tons capacity---are
at Giza, Port Said, Alexandria, and Tanta. Additionally, there is demand for
small cold stores of 100 tons to 1,000 tons throughout the provinces, and
these are being built in some numbers by private investors. Ice Making. The
lack of a refrigerated chain in Egypt lends importance to the use of block ice
(25 kg) in the transport of perishables, especially during the summer months.
The present production capacity is 3,000 metric tons block ice per day,
two-thirds of which is in the public sector, and the balance in the private
sector. During the ongoing Five-Year Plan alone, Government intends to
establish 14 block ice plants with a capacity of about 2,000 metric tons a
day. In addition, it is encouraging increases in private sector capacity.
Such facilities (costing about US$200,000 for a 50 T/day plant) are expected
to be financed under the Project.
1.11      Consumption of fruits and vegetables is expanding rapidly in Egypt
and reached 8.5 million tons in 1978. This gives rise to a wide range of
investment opportunities in such activities as packing and grading, dehydra-
tion, canning, juicing, cooling, and miscellaneous processing. An earlier



- 7 -
project, approved in 1976 (Fruit and Vegetable Project, 1276-EGT), provided
$9.3 million for unidentified investments in this field and is likely to
be fully committed by the end of 1980. Miscellaneous Export Industries.
Medicinal herbs, condimental spices, and essential oils are procured from
areas scattered throughout Egypt, and then cleaned, graded, and processed as
necessary for shipment as high-value exports. Such investments would be
eligible under the project. Service Industries. Container manufacturing
and trucking (including refrigerated and insulated vehicles) for agricultural
products are two types of service investments that would qualify under the
project, as would small investments in wholesale distribution facilities.
E. Previous Loans
1.12      The Bank's policy in the agricultural sector has been to encourage
Government to maintain and to increase production levels in the old lands, and
particularly to support the drainage program in lower and upper Egypt to pre-
vent a decline in land productivity on account of rising water tables. This
has been financed through a series of four drainage projects covering much of
the irrigated area. 1/ The first two have suffered from lengthy delays in the
past but all of them are now progressing satisfactorily. The Bank has also
supported a pilot attempt to increase productivity in two Governorates with
the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT of 1978). This involved
strengthening those parts of the Ministry of Agriculture dealing with agricul-
tural banking, extension and cooperatives and providing tractors, implements
and pumps to increase the level of farm mechanization. It is too early yet to
assess the likely impact of this project; implementation is behind schedule.
A major problem is that legislation to amend the status of cooperatives is
held up in Parliament. The Bank has also approved a loan (Fruit and Vegetables
1276-EGT) of US$50 million to Bank Misr to finance a seed farm and associated
activities as well as to provide credit to processors and exporters of fruits
and vegetables (para. 2.14). This project has run into several problems
including the indecisiveness of the management of some of the public sector
subborrowers, a substantial reduction in fruit and vegetable exports, poor
management of the seed component and reliance on a single credit intermediary
(Bank Misr) which has taken longer than anticipated to build up an institu-
tional capacity for development lending. The loan also contains a credit
component for horticultural sub-projects to be identified by Bank Misr about
40% of which has been committed. Lessons drawn and applied to the proposed
project include: (1) involvement of more than one credit intermediary could
generate a larger pipeline of sub-projects more rapidly; (2) the need for
increased technical assistance. Relevant to the proposed project are the
two credits for a total of US$40 million and a loan of US$40 million to the
1/   Credit 181-EGT of 1970, Loan 1440-EGT of 1977, Credit 393-EGT of 1973
and Credit/Loan 637-1285-EGT of 1976.



- 8 -
Development Industrial Bank (DIB). 1/ Of these, DIB has approved sub-projects
estimated at US$72 million as of January 1980: 14 projects (US$17 million) in
the public and 177 projects (US$55 million) in the private sector. These loans
induced total investments of LE 128 million. Disbursements are progressing
satisfactorily and DIB has a project pipeline of nearly US$180 million. About
22% (US$10.5 million) of the total DIB term lending (foreign and local currency)
went for food processing in 1978, up from 17% in 1977 (US$4.4 million).
II. THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Financial Institutions and Agroindustries Credit
2.01      The banking sector in Egypt provides the bulk of institutional
financing for industry and agroindustries. The sector comprises four major
public sector commercial banks viz. Bank of Alexandria, Banque du Caire, Bank
Misr, and the National Bank of Egypt (NBE); three types of specialized banks,
for agriculture, industry, and housing; and a number of foreign banks and
joint ventures with foreign banks established in accordance with the 1974
Foreign Investment Law. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) exercises close
control over the operations and finances of the banks. The Egyptian public
sector commercial banks predominate among the banks in terms of volume of
operations. Before 1975, they were the only commercial banks in operation
in Egypt and required to specialize by sector. This requirement was removed
by the 1975 Banking Law, which gave the banks greater freedom of activity and
more scope for dealings on a commercial basis. Thus, the foreign investment
and banking laws, together with the Government's general economic policy
orientation, have brought about significant changes in the structure and
character of the banking system. Nevertheless, the inertia of years of
bureaucratic state control continues to afflict large segments of the banking
sector.
2.02      During the period through 1975, public sector enterprises includ-
ing large scale agroindustries companies received the bulk of bank financing
essentially on an allocation basis. Since then, this function has been
largely taken over by the national budget which provides funds for invest-
ments, while the commercial banks' dealings with the public companies are
increasingly on a commercial basis. Bank lending to the private sector has
been increasing. However, small and medium scale agroindustries enterprises,
particularly those outside the major urban centers, are no exception to
the general position of similar enterprises in industry, in that they have
very little access to institutional credit or even contacts with the banks.
Empirical evidence suggests that at present there is considerable unsatisfied
1/   Credit 412-EGT of 1973, Credit 576-EGT of 1975 and Loan 1533-EGT of 1978.
A fourth loan is currently being processed.



- 9 -
demand for all forms of credit from small and medium scale private agroindus-
trial enterprise. Since "agroindustries" cut across the agricultural and
industrial sectors, and because this term has come to refer to a very wide
array of industries or activities, there is no bank which specializes in
financing of agroindustries as such. Most of the banks have financed agro-
industries projects from time to time. However, at present about the only
regular source of medium and long-term credit for the smaller companies in
Egypt is the Development Industrial Bank (DIB). The recently established Misr
Iran Development Bank provides financing for large projects in this area,
mostly joint ventures.
B. Interest Rates
2.03      Many of the terms and conditions of loans or credits by banks are
regulated. Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency by all
financial institutions are regulated by CBE. Until 1975, there was a statu-
tory ceiling on interest rates, which was removed in 1975 by the banking law,
which empowered CBE to fix limits on interest rates in the light of prevailing
monetary and credit conditions. In June 1978, and again in July 1979, the
maximum interest rates for commercial bank loans and deposits were raised, in
each instance, by one percentage point for most types of loans and deposits.
The maximum interest rate for loans to the non-Government sector is now 12%
and the minimum 10%. Lending rates to Government and public sector companies
are highly preferential. The CBE's discount rate is now 9%. It is difficult
to ascertain whether interest rates are at present positive in real terms.
Measured against the official wholesale price index (8.7 percent increase in
1978) it would appear that they are positive, but the price index has strong
downward biases (para. 4.19). Interest rates on foreign exchange deposits are
not regulated by CBE and banks offer rates based on Eurocurrency deposit rates
on US$ denominated time deposits with maturities of up to one year, and about
8% on demand deposits.
C. Participating Banks
2.04      Three banks expressed interest in, and have been selected to partic-
ipate in the project. Two of them are specialized banks viz. Development
Industrial Bank and the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC), while the third Bank Misr is a commercial bank. The participating
banks are wholly state owned and, with the exception of PBDAC, come under the
jurisdiction of CBE. Under its charter, PBDAC is controlled by the Ministry
of Agriculture.
Development Industrial Bank
2.05      Of the participating banks (PBs), the Development Industrial Bank
(DIB) is the only one devoted entirely to development banking, in which
in its field it has become one of the most successful among Egyptian banks.



- 10 -
Its origins go back to a special unit of the Bank of Alexandria, which
received two loans and technical assistance from the Bank Group. DIB was
formally established in 1975 and commenced operations in August 1976. It
received a third Bank loan in March 1978, and a further loan is being processed.
DIB is, therefore, very well known to the Bank group and is considered to be
creditworthy and an appropriate financial intermediary for industry.
2.06      DIB is a compact, centralized bank with only three branches (one of
them very newly opened), but operating on a national scale. Its senior and
middle management is competent. Since October 1978, DIB's Board has been
receiving guidance and support from an external advisory committee of experts
in finance and industrial development. DIB has been building up its profes-
sional staff satisfactorily, despite the handicap which it faces (like other
public sector banks) in regard to limits on salary it can offer. DIB is
receiving technical assistance financed by a USAID grant to augment its man-
agement and project appraisal capability. A consulting firm engaged under
this assistance has started a project appraisal training course. DIB is
guided by a policy statement and a separate strategy statement. It special-
izes in the financing of industries, including agroindustries, for which it
makes medium and long-term loans together with complementary short-term work-
ing capital loans. DIB's equity investments have been insignificant so far.
It provides finance mainly to the private sector including cooperatives and
small scale industries. Its financing of public sector enterprises is limited
to relatively smaller projects or marginal financing of larger projects.
2.07      The quality of DIB's project appraisals, especially financial and
economic analyses, has steadily improved. Technical analysis has lagged
behind due to a nationwide shortage of engineering staff. Outside consultants
are often employed for this purpose. Overall, DIB has achieved a relatively
high level of proficiency in project appraisal and supervision. DIB is now
putting increasing emphasis on loans to small scale industries (SSI), and is
correspondingly improving its approach and methodology for evaluating projects
from this sector. DIB's operations have increased steadily with 1978 approved
loans totalling LE 48 million, including LE 35.3 million in medium and long-
term loans. "Foodstuffs and agroindustries" are among the sectors accorded
priority by DIB, and its financing of this category has increased in relative
and absolute terms to LE 10.5 million or 22% of the total in 1978. Types of
enterprises which have received loans include cold stores, soft drinks, ice
plants, confectionary, poultry, restaurants, and canning. DIB's financing
has been heavily concentrated in the Cairo and Alexandria zones. While DIB has
been able to provide very little technical assistance to SSI, its loans to such
industries 1/ accounted for 550 out of 655 medium and long-term loans in 1978.
DIB's total assets have been increasing rapidly in pace with its operations and
amounted to over LE 54 million at the end of 1978. Its financial performance
has been modest but satisfactory. In 1978, before tax profits amounted to LE
2.15 million as compared to LE 1.3 million in 1977. DIB's portfolio is of
sound quality, and provisions made, together with collateral held, is estimated
to considerably exceed any anticipated losses.
1/   These are defined as enterprises with fixed assets excluding land and
buildings not exceeding LE 150,000.



Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
2.08      The second of the specialized participating banks is the Principal
Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC). Together with its
affiliated Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDACs), numbering
17, and a very extensive network of about 5,200 branches, PBDAC is by far
the major primary source of institutional credit for agriculture in Egypt.
Its assets are now about LE 270 million and its annual lending of the order
of LE 170 million, the bulk of which is in the form of short-term production
loans to farmers.  PBDAC is controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and has
been, in practice, an instrument for carrying out the Government's agricul-
tural policies and programs. Accordingly, it has been dependent on government
subsidies and its autonomy had been extremely limited. Signalling a change
of policy, the Government adopted a new charter for PBDAC in September 1976,
whose basic objectives include restoration of its financial viability and
enlargement of its organizational and resource base. Changes in accordance
with these policies are now taking place, and the Government and the PBDAC
management are committed to PBDAC becoming a development bank.
2.09      In the context of the above developments, IDA extended a credit to
the Government in July 1978, a part of which has been earmarked for financing
of investments in farm mechanization and irrigation through medium and long-
term credits from PBDAC. Since PBDAC's term lending activities had been
extremely limited and it had done little project appraisal or supervision, the
IDA financed Agricultural Development Project (Menufiya and Sohag) is provid-
ing technical assistance in the form of a team of specialists to advise
management on term lending. PBDAC is in the process of selecting this team of
consultants, who are expected to take up the assignment about April 1980. The
methods and techniques of project appraisal and supervision expected to be
imparted to PBDAC's staff through this technical assistance are likely to have
a broader application to investment financing, and will thus complement the
proposed consultants to advise on agroindustries lending (para. 4.13).
2.10      PBDAC's financial condition had been precarious, with accumulated
losses amounting to LE 60 million through 1976, but is now improving, in part
due to the Government's action in assuming or converting certain of its
earlier liabilities totalling LE 31 million, and partly to improved perform-
ance. In fact, PBDAC's earnings turned the corner in 1977 after several years
of continued losses, generating a small pre-tax profit. The above measures by
the Government are expected to be the first stage of a process of financial
rehabilitation and restructuring of PBDAC and its affiliates. Furthermore,
the Government and PBDAC management have agreed to study key problems relating
to PBDAC organization, policies, operations, and finances, with the help of a
second group of consultants financed under the Agricultural Development
Project as part of a long-term program of institutional reform.
2.11      PBDAC's modest medium and long-term lending has been gradually
increasing and was LE 2.22 million, LE 4.23 million, and LE 5.42 million,
respectively, in the past three calendar years. Most of these loans have
been on-farm investments. In recent months, PBDAC received 13 term-loan



- 12 -
applications totalling over LE 4 million for agroindustries projects, and has
already approved five of them for a total of about LE 1.8 million. For these
loan applications, PBDAC has been preparing simple appraisals, mainly in
regard to the financial aspects, It is eager to receive assistance to develop
its organization tc carry out a more broad based technical, economic, and
financial appraisal of investment projects.
B ank .4;s-
2.12      Established ir 1920, Bank Misr soon grew into what was Egypt's
largest commercial bank. Following nationalization and reorganization of the
banking sector. it is now one of the four public sector commercial banks.
Betweer 1971 and 19759 it was designated as the bank for the agricultural
sector, with which it developed some ties.  Bank Misr is a financially strong,
reasonably well-managed3 and efficient organization in respect of its commer-
cial banking activities.  Following steady increases, its assets reached LE
1180 mill'ion by the end of 19773 and deposits about LE 890 million.  Profits
of LE 34 million in 1977 represented a 78% increase over that in 1976.  Until
the 1975 banking law, Bank Misr's loans were limited to terms of not more than
one year. Its portfolio still consists, overwhelmingly, of short-term loans
for commercial and trading activities. For the first time in its recent
history, Bank Misr embarked on development financing under the Bank-assisted
Fruit and Vegetable Development Project. Since then, it has undertaken other
investment projects in various sectors including agriculture and industries.
It has made loans to 15 companies including five fruit and vegetable projects;
and equity investments amounting to LE 90 million in 25 companies including
six in agroindustries and four in banks. Most of these are relatively major
J;oint venture companies.
2.13      Bank Misr's Investment Center, established in 1976, is responsible
for processing most of its development financing projects. Among the three
departments in the Investment Center is an Agricultural Development Lending
Department (ADLD), which was especially established for on-lending Bank funds
and making local currency loans to sub-borrowers under the Fruit and Vegetable
Development Project. This project includes five identified public sector
corporations, and a general line of credit for agroindustries, for which $9.32
million in Bank funds have been allocated. Managers and professional staff
for ADLD were selected from among Bank Misr's staff experienced in routine
commercial banking. ADLD has received technical assistance financed under the
Fruit and Vegetable Development Project from a credit specialist assigned by
an expatriate consulting firm. The purpose of the assistance was to build up
ADLD's capability to appraise and supervise investment projects and to provide
technical assistance to subborrowers.
2.14      Bank Misr's performance under the Fruit and Vegetable Development
Project has not been satisfactory considering its reputation on other aspects
of banking. Of the $10.9 million and $9.3 million allocated in this project
for specific public sector subprojects and unidentified subprojects respec-
tively, so far only $6 million and $4.8 million, respectively, have been
approved and a total of $8.8 million committed. However, some of the reasons
for this disappointing performarce are outside Bank Misr's control. They



- 13 -
include poor management and lack of business orientation on the part of the
public sector subborrowers. Also, changes in demand conditions have rendered
some of the proposed investments unnecessary. Bank Misr's performance is also
a function of the long time it has taken to train ADLD's staff and the inex-
perienced management of ADLD. Recently, the present Deputy Chairman of Bank
Misr, who has a good reputation in financial circles, has assumed greater
supervisory responsibility for the Investment Center including ADLD, and it is
expected that the level of ADLD's management will improve. The initiatives it
has been taking to identify a pipeline of prospective subborrowers have begun
to pay off and six sub-projects with a total investment of about $4 million
have recently been approved for financing under the general line of credit.
Appraisal reports of these projects were reviewed by the Bank and they were of
fair quality indicating that ADLD staff have now obtained a degree of compe-
tence in sub-project appraisal. ADLD, however, still lacks expertise in
technical evaluation of agroindustries investments.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The major objectives of the proposed project are:
(i)  to assist in the modernization and expansion of processing
and marketing of basic agricultural products, and associated
service and input activities, thereby contributing to the
efficient post-harvest handling of such products, with
consequent beneficial effects on, inter alia, increased
supplies to a growing population, rural income, and urban
public health;
(ii)  to initiate steps to forge links between financial insti-
tutions and agroindustries, especially those which are
of small and medium size and mostly located in rural areas,
and to strengthen the participating banks in identifying,
appraising, and supervising medium and long-term agro-
industries investments, thus improving the quality of such
investments.
B.  Description
3.02      Credit Component.  The project would finance investments throughout
Egypt for expansion and modernization of facilities for primary processing,
marketing, and distribution of basic foodstuffs and other agricultural com-
modidites and associated service and input activities. Viable new projects
for these fields would also qualify for financing. Investments are envisagedc
primarily in the private sector, but cooperatives and public sector enterprises



- 14 -
would also be eligible. A wide variety of agroindustrial enterprises are
expected to apply for financing, generating an estimated 150 to 200 sub-loans
of sizes ranging from US$50,000 or less, to US$1.5 million equivalent.
Funds provided under the project are expected to meet the requirements of
investors for a two and one-half year commitment period commencing June 1980.
The types of small agroindustries likely to be financed under the project
(based on field interviews by the preparation mission) include small scale
food processing such as macaroni plants, flour mills, bakeries, dairy and meat
processing, date and sesame processing; food distribution facilities such as
cold stores, ice making, and poultry slaughterhouses; and miscellaneous
service and export activities such as poultry feed, container manufacturing,
and the preparation of essential oils and condimental spices. It is estimated
that some 60% of these will be existing enterprises interested in expansion
and modernization, while the other 40% will be new enterprises. Within the
context of the general overview of agro-industries (Chapter 1), profiles of
typical sub-loans are likely to be as follows: macaroni plants of about 3,000
tons annual capacity either expanding, or starting up in areas without present
capacity; dairy plants of about 2 tons/day capacity planning to expand or to
modernize obsolete equipment; cold stores from 40 to 1,000 tons capacity to be
attached to existing dairy and poultry plants, in addition to new facilities
needed to facilitate the accelerating trend to extended marketing areas of
perishable products; poultry slaughterhouses to service poultry growing areas
lacking such facilities (typical throughput: one million birds annually);
sesame seed processing to cater to the national taste for halava paste and
sesame cookies; expansion of container manufacturing (plastic crates and date
frond baskets); small poultry feed units of about 1,000 tons/year output;
cleaning, sifting, and grading machinery for the export trade in condimental
spices and--another expanding export-distillation equipment for the essential
oils from jasmine and geraniums (both labor intensive crops employing thousands
of part-time school age youngsters). Many small operations in Egypt using
manual methods which limit their production and quality control wish to
purchase appropriate small capacity machinery; for example, a date processing
plant which handles 70 tons per year, could increase its output to 300 tons
with cleaning, seed removing, and packaging equipment. Other examples of
equipment expected to be financed include burr mills and roller crushers for
grains in small flour mills; roller and/or weight sorters for fruits; and
diesel generators (about 100 kw) for standby or primary power. Also, items
such as fanning mills for cereal seeds cleaning, dehydrating tunnels, and
simple canning equipment (reformers, seamers and flangers). Although a large
number of types of agroindustries ventures would be eligible for financing,
non-basic products such as carbonated and alcoholic beverages and tobacco
products would be excluded, as well as activities dealt with in certain
specialized Bank loans such as cotton ginning. Production activities would
not be normally eligible, except in areas such as poultry plants and green-
houses, which are usually considered agroindustries. Livestock fattening
would be excluded. Participation in capital intensive projects such as sugar
mills, fertilizer plants, etc. would be limited to urgent replacement and
modernization of subprojects, e.g., mechanical handling systems.
3.03      Slaughterhouses Component.  This industry is at a rudimentary stage
throughout Egypt, and there are no modern slaughterhouses in the country. The



- 15 -
project would provide modern municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria
to replace the present obsolete facilities in those cities. The slaughter-
houses in Cairo and Alexandria are primitive installations which cannot ful-
fill their function of supplying wholesome meat to consumers. In addition to
improving public health through slaughter under greatly improved conditions
of hygiene,.the proposed replacement abattoirs would correct the present
situation whereby untreated effluent from the plants is not disposed of in
an acceptable manner, and would relieve the considerable traffic (from live
animals as well as vehicles) in the vicinities of the existing plants. The
main municipal abattoirs in Cairo and Alexandria both date from the last
century. Plans have been afoot for some years by the Governorates concerned
for their replacement and they are included in Egypt's Five-Year Plan. 1/
Until IDA agreed to consider in principle to participate in these projects,
there existed no coherent financing plan or knowledge of what was required in
the way of design criteria.
3.04      The function of the two abattoirs is that of the principal slaughter-
house 2/ in each of the two cities. They are custom operations, inasmuch as
the animal owners retain their ownership, paying a fee to the Governorates for
the use of the facilities. These owners take their carcasses, hides, and
offals from the abattoirs and no processing is carried out. Ancillary opera-
tions are restricted to collecting some blood and cleaning of casings. The
Cairo abattoir, which slaughters some 600,000 animals per year, is located in
a very congested part of Old Cairo (Zeinhom) about 700 meters east of the
Nile. It is on an approximately four-acre site owned by the Governorate in a
residential district. The Alexandria slaughterhouse is located at the main
(west) harbor of the city and empties its sewage directly into the Mediter-
ranean Sea; approaches to the abattoir are very congested, as the city is very
narrow at this point, being backed by a lagoon. The site is about six acres
in extent and owned by the Governorate.
3.05      There is no hot water in Cairo for cleaning and sterilizing; many of
the slaughtering operations are performed on the floor, allowing the carcasses
and meat to become contaminated from the dirty floors and/or intestinal con-
tent; the labor is not submitted to any form of hygienic routine. The present
abattoirs and surrounding environment offer no reasonable possibilities for
improvement. Each plant has a number of cubicles where butchers slaughter and
dress their own animals. All of the practices are contrary to modern sanitary
concepts of on-the-rail dressing. The needed basic change in process, includ-
ing flow and movement throughout the operation, dictates against any attempt
to revamp and modernize the existing abattoirs. Further, due to the inadequate
building and design unacceptable work procedures and customs, the veterinary
inspection itself is inadequate. There is no practical way to control the
diseased carcass, to say nothing of the various organs, and match these corres-
pondingly against the carcass during inspection. Many times the viscera,
1/   1979 budgetary allocations were:  Cairo, LE 1.2 million; Alexandria
LE 330,000. (No 1980 figures have been announced.)
2/   In the Cairo Governorate, the main slaughterhouse accounts for 92 per-
cent of slaughter numbers.



- 16 -
head, or feet have been misplaced before they can be identified or destroyed.
The situation in Alexandria is marginally better (hot water is available), but
generally quite unacceptable and for the same reasons as Cairo.
3.06      The two abattoirs are owned by the respective Governorates and
managed by the veterinary departments with personnel seconded from the Minis-
try of Agriculture. However, the Veterinary Director exercises very little
control over operations. The work is carried out by an Association of sub-
contractors, who engage workers and cater to the animal owners. These various
persons have free access to the abattoirs and set their own rules. Fees are
paid to the Governorate, in addition to the cost of labor services (including
in-kind payments) going to the Association. Annual throughput of the main
Cairo abattoir is 640,000 head per year, of which 191,000 are large stock; for
Alexandria the annual throughput is 100,000 animals, of which 35,000 are
large stock. The present marketing system for livestock and meat, involving
wholesale merchants, commission agents, retailers, and ancillary services
(offal traders, transport agents, and drivers, etc.) is well entrenched, and
judging by the margins between live animals and retail prices is fairly effi-
cient (Project File). There are an estimated 5,000 retailers in Cairo and
about 500 in Alexandria, the average sales volume of the latter being higher.
3.07      The concept of having one major metropolitan slaughterhouse in each
city is a continuation of the existing system. The alternatives of depending
upon a number of satellite slaughterhouses in the metro areas has been reviewed
but is not justified because economies of scale favor a central slaughterhouse.
Alternatively, the strategy of locating the bulk of slaughter in the producing
areas has been reviewed but does not appear attractive considering the poten-
tial disruptions to the present system, and the potential problems and addi-
tional cost of moving perishable meat versus cattle on the hoof. Thus, the
present project is focussed on meeting the urgent need to replace the two
existing main slaughterhouses which may be classified as public health hazards
and nuisances, thereby improving the quality of meat available and with the
least onerous effects on the environment, and whose replacement is justified
in the light of possible alternatives. The operations and management of the
proposed abattoirs need to be changed as the present system is not compatible
with minimum public health needs. The new abattoir for Greater Cairo would be
composed of all the components required to fully close down and eliminate
operations in the old abattoir and eventually to cover the volume of three
other regional slaughterhouses on the east side of the Nile in Greater Cairo.
The 22-acre site is already selected and walled-in; it meets the basic require-
ments for a modern slaughterhouse--proximity to the source of labor, availa-
bility of water, power, city sanitary sewers for effluents, 1/ and a good
market communication, being on a new highway under constructTon running on the
east side of Cairo north to south.  Moreover, the location in the consumption
center rather than further out in the production areas, minimizes the need to
chill and freeze meat for Greater Cairo where the custom has long been to
market fresh hot dressed carcasses. The new site for the proposed replacement
1/   The tender documents specify requirements for effluent treatment in terms
of BOD, suspended solids, and other criteria.



- 17 -
abattoir for Alexandria is at Amiriya. This 95 acre site is located in an
industrial park off the Desert Road to Cairo, about 25 kms from the city
center. The geographical situation of Alexandria, which is on a spit of land
with water on both sides, results in a severe shortage of building sites. The
marshes south of Lake Maryut and extensive military installations in the area
compound the problem, and the selected site admits of few if any alternatives.
Because of the distance involved and the comparatively small number of retailers
in Alexandria, it is proposed to provide sufficient vehicles to transport 70
percent of the meat from the plant to the retailers.
3.08       The objective of the new abattoirs is to provide sufficiently large,
diversified by species, custom slaughtering operations designed to allow
slaughtering in an orderly, organized manner under accepted operating,
sanitary and technical procedures that will allow the veterinary inspectors to
perform adequate inspections. Plans are to provide adequate dock space for
the present number of vehicles, with provisions for future rationalization.
Current plans are for a four-day per week operation, in line with Egyptian Law
limiting retail sales to four days, Thursday through Sunday (i.e., slaughtering
Wednesday through Saturday). 1/  The planned line capacities are adequate
to slaughter the present annual throughputs, working 32 hours per week. By
running additional hours per day, the capacity of the two plants can be
increased considerably. Cooling capacity will be provided equivalent to 50
percent of one day's output. This allows some provision for hold over of
slaughtered cattle, while recognizing that the trade in these cities prefers
its meat "hot". Holdover would be especially important for main feast days.
For normal weekly operations, when Wednesday is the high volume day, and
Saturday the low volume day, it will be necessary either to adjust the number
of hours worked in a day, or to hold over some carcasses in the cooler. The
new abattoirs will be designed such as to allow future expansion should it be
needed.
3.09      Wholesale Market Studies.  The project would include detailed
studies for the relocation of the main fruit and vegetable wholesale markets
in Cairo and Alexandria. The present markets--too small, and poorly located--
are increasingly inadequate for their role. The Cairo market was built in
1947 and is located about one-third of a mile from the River Nile on the east
side in line with.the northern tip of Zamalik. It is 22 acres in area and
handles 600,000 tons of produce a year. Comparison with metropolitan markets
in other parts of the world indicates that this area should at least be
doubled or tripled in size. Were a larger area available the volume passing
through the market would increase. The present site allows no space for
expansion as it is surrounded by residential apartments. The Alexandria
market, which was built in 1955, is located in a central position in the city.
1/   The reason for the Law is to conserve the national livestock herd.  Prior
to the main feast days, additional slaughtering days are permitted.



- 18 -
Throughput is about 444,000 tons of produce, and the area is only 13 acres.
As is the case with Cairo, the market is surrounded by high rise apartments.
There is only one access road to the market and the congestion inside and out
is considerable. Both markets are operated by the respective Governorates;
the Cairo area, however, is owned by the Governorate, whereas the Alexandria
site is rented. Experience suggests that one major market is most suited to
metropolitan areas, complemented perhaps by some small suburban satellite
markets. Wholesale markets are particularly important for Egypt where fruits
and vegetables are sold to thousands of small retailers, who are best served
through a wholesale market.  The pattern in the USA and Europe whereby much
produce is marketed through supermarket chains (thereby bypassing wholesale
markets) is unlikely to be established on a wider scale in Egypt in the
foreseeable future. Nevertheless, there are a number of alternatives for
replacing the present markets and these include having three or four equally
sized markets in diffrent locations. These alternatives will be studied under
the project.
C. Summary of Project Costs
3.10      The total cost of the project, including physical contingencies
and expected price increases, is estimated at about LE 42.5 million (US$60.8
million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$45.5 million or
75% of total cost. The cost estimate is based on June 1979 prices and includes
taxes and duties (which amount to only 2% for food industries). Physical
contingencies have been computed at 10% on slaughterhouses and 5% on the other
items. Price contingencies on equipment have been computed at 9% for 1980,
8% for 1981, and 7% thereafter. For civil works, the projected rates of
inflation in Egypt were taken as 17% for 1980, and 12% thereafter. In view of
the advanced state of procurement for the slaughterhouses, and the keen
competition for agroindustries equipment, these contingencies are considered
adequate.



- 19 -
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  F.E.
---- (LE millionsT)  --- ---  US$ millionis T         %
I. Agroindustries
Sub-projects           4.20   13.29   17.49   6.00    19.00   25.00   76
II. Consultants for
Participating
Banks                  0.07    0.27    0.34   0.10        0.38    0.48   80
Training for PBs         0.11    0.10    0.21   0.15         0.15    0.30   50
III.  Slaughterhouses
Cairo                  1.79    6.31    8.10   2.55        9.03   11.58   77
Alexandria             0.83    3.29    4.12   1.18        4.71    5.89   80
Technical Assistance
and Fellowships        0.04    0.15    0.19   0.06        0.21    0.27   78
Supervising Engineers  0.05    0.30    0.35   0.07          0.43    0.50   86
Sub-total (III)        2.71   10.05   12.76   3.86    14.38   18.24   79
IV. Studies for
Wholesale Markets    0.10    0.34    0.44   0.14          0.48    0.62   77
7.19   24.05   31.24  10.25    34.39   44.64   77
V.  Physical Contin-
gencies                0.50    1.65    2.15   0.71        2.37    3.08
Expected Price
Increases (27%)        3.01    6.12    9.13   4.30        8.75   13.05
Total Expected Cost
of Project            10.70   31.82   42.52  15.26    45.51   60.77   75
LE 1.00 = US$1.43



- 20 -
D. Financing
3.11       The detailed financing plan for the project would be as follows:
(i)  Agroindustries Sub-projects                    millions
IDA                   70%              US$25.0          LE 17.48
PBs                   i0%              US$3.6           LE  2.52
Subborrowers          20%              US$7.1           LE  4.69
(ii) Consultants and
training for PBs
IDA                   80%              US$0.61          LE  0.43
PBs                   20%              US$0.16          LE  0.11
(iii) Slaughterhouses
Cairo
IDA                   79%             US$12.0           LE  8.4
Government            21%              US$3.1           LE  2.17
Alexandria
IDA                   80%              US$6.00          LE  4.2
Government            20%               US$1.53         LE  1.1
(iv) Supervising Engineers, Technical Assistance, and Fellowships
for the slaughterhouses
IDA                   83%              US$0.80          LE  0.56
Government            17%              US$0.16          LE  0.11
(v) Studies for Wholesale Markets
IDA                   77%              US$0.54          LE  0.38
Government            23%              US$0.16          LE  0.11
Of the total US$60.8 million project, $45 million would be provided by IDA,
$7.1 million by the sub-borrowers, $3.76 million by the PBs and $4.95 million
by Government. The amount of the IDA credit is about equal to the estimated
total foreign exchange cost component of the project. Foreign exchange
expenditures as well as some items of local expenditure would be financed.
For agroindustries subprojects and the slaughterhouses, locally processed or
manufactured goods and equipment would be eligible for financing from IDA
credit up to 60% of the costs thereof. For technical assistance and training,
while it is expected that the above financing plan would be adhered to, the
IDA credit would finance 100% of the invoices presented, without distinction
between foreign and local costs. For the slaughterhouses, the Government's
share of financing would be provided in the form of equity, through budgetary
allocations. During negotitions, agreement was reached on these matters.



- 21 -
3.12      Retroactive Financing.  Consultants have been engaged by the
Governorates to evaluate tenders for the construction of slaughterhouses
(para. 3.16). It is estimated that up to $70,000 is likely to be expended
prior to the signing of the Credit Agreement. It is proposed that this be
eligible for retroactive financing.
E. Implementation Schedule
3.13      The agroindustries subloans are expected to be committed over
a two and a half year period from mid 1980 and disbursed by the end of FY84,
as indicated. The slaughterhouses subloans are expected to be committed in
the first half of CY80 and disbursed by the end of CY81.
F. Procurement
3.14      Credit Component.  For subborrowers' contracts not exceeding
US$150,000 equivalent each, procurement would be through normal commercial
channels. For subloans involving contracts of or exceeding $150,000 a
"prudent shopping" procedure (usually with a minimum of three bids) acceptable
to IDA, would be followed. The PBs would be required to indicate the procure-
ment procedures followed for individual sub-projects and retain the related
documents, which would be reviewed during supervision. It is believed that
this system will provide for adequate competition since most importers are
represented in Egypt.
3.15      Consultants (total cost US$2.38 million equivalent).  Consultants to
be financed under the project (items ii, iv, and v in para. 3.11) would be
appointed in accordance with IDA's guidelines, and on.terms and conditions
agreed with IDA. Cost estimates (exclusive of price contingencies) are: for
PBDAC, 48 man-months at US$10,000 man-month; for training the equivalent of
18 man-months at US$10,000/man-month or partial equivalent thereof in local
expenses; for the wholesale market studies, 60 man-months at US$10,000 man-
month; for the supervising engineers (slaughterhouses), a 2-year contract for
US$500,000.
3.16      Slaughterhouses Component.  The two slaughterhouses, estimated to
cost about US$22.6 million, would be procured under ICB in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. The tender documents after having been reviewed by IDA, were
issued by the Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria (in two separate tenders)
in May 1979, after proper advertisements and notification of embassies. These
documents call for turnkey bids, i.e., one contractor would take total respon-
sibility for each abattoir.  The tenders spell out conditions and objectives,
but leave considerable scope for variation in detailed specifications, with
the aim of securing the most economical bids.  The Governorates have selected,
and are finalizing contracts to engage, a firm of consulting engineers to
assist them in evaluation of bids.  Consulting engineers would also assist
the Governorates in supervising the work of the contractor during the estimated
two-year period of construction. The employment of these consulting engineers
will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.



- 22 -
G. Disbursements
3.17      The proposed IDA credit of US$45 million is projected to be dis-
bursed over a four-year period as follows:
US$ million
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    Total
Agroindustries Sub-projects               2.0      8.0    11.0      4.0     25.0
Slaughterhouses /1                        6.5    13.0       -        -      19.5
Studies for Wholesale Markets             0.3     0.2       -        -       0.5
Cumulative                                8.8    30.0    41.0    45.0       45.0
/1   Include consultants and technical assistance.
Withdrawal of the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit for the agroindustries
sub-projects would be in accordance with the following:
(i) For agroindustries subprojects, 100% of foreign expenditures or 60%
of local expenditures.
(ii) For the slaughterhouses, 100% of the foreign expenditures or
60% of local expenditures.
(iii) For consultants, 100% of expenditures (invoices submitted),
part of which is to be financed retroactively (para 3.12).
(iv) For training, 100% of expenditures (invoices submitted).
Withdrawal applications would be supported by normal documentation.
H. Environmental Impact
3.18      The project would have a favorable environmental impact through the
replacement of two major slaughterhouses which are important sources of
pollution and congestion in overcrowded urban areas. These will be equipped
with effluent treatment facilities able to meet generally accepted standards.
A few of the agroindustries sub-projects envisaged under this project--such as
poultry slaughterhouses and cheese plants--could have unpleasant effluents.
Since the subprojects are expected to be numerous and scattered, no signifi-
cantly adverse environmental impact is expected in any area. The PBs would
pay attention to this aspect in subproject appraisal.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The Borrower.  The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be
the Borrower. Of the IDA credit amount, $25 million would be earmarked for
on-lending to subborrowers for investments in sub-projects in the agroindus-
tries sector, as defined (para. 3.01), through three participating banks
(PBs). IDA would enter into a project agreement with the PBs, defining their
responsibilities and obligations for carrying out the agroindustries lending
component. The PBs would deal directly with IDA on project technical matters.
Coordination for the credit component would be provided by the Ministry of
Economy. The PBs have been meeting informally on the project, and are ex-
pected to establish regular meetings on matters of common concern. The
Government, as Borrower, would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with the
PBs in regard to the terms and conditions of on-lending to them.  The signing
of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. IDA
would also enter into a project agreement with the Governorates of Cairo and
Alexandria for implementation of the slaughterhouses and wholesale market
studies, while the Government would enter into financing agreements with the
Governorates, the execution of which will be additional conditions of effective-
ness.
4.02      The Credit Component.  Three banks known to the Bank group have been
selected and have agreed to participate in the project. Project funds would
not be preallocated between the PBs. The comparative advantage of having
three implementing banks rather than one or two has been carefully considered.
The multiple channel credit system is a conscious part of project design, to
reach out extensively to a variety of agroindustries and especially to small
enterprises outside the main urban areas. Additionally, the participation of
a major commercial bank is expected to generate interest of the national
commercial banking network, with large scale resources, to mobilize capital
for agroindustries. As a group the PBs have an extensive branch network,
acknowledged project processing capability, familiarity with term lending, and
specialization in agriculture or agroindustries which should in the aggregate
make up an acceptable system. Their weaknesses, as indicated herein, are not
insignificant; a major objective of the project is to remedy them to the
extent possible. DIB comes closest to meeting the criteria for a suitable
agroindustries financing channel, but it has a relatively small and centralized
organization, operating in the industrial sector at large. For Bank Misr this
project will be a very small part of their overall large volume of commercial
banking operations. To some extent, this observation is true also of PBDAC,
with its large-scale on-farm production loans.  However, circumstances are
changing rapidly, and PBDAC has begun to respond to the Government's high
priority food security policy by financing agroindustries and, generally,
developing its term lending as enjoined in its new charter. With the excep-
tion of DIB, the PBs' ability to undertake development financing is at an
early stage. The strategy adopted for this project is to concentrate on
strengthening the relatively small parts of the PBs' organizations (except



- 24 -
DIB) which will be responsible for this project. The managements of these
three banks have expressed interest in building up their agroindustries
development lending activities. This basic interest is a necessary precondi-
tion for their participation. Thus it is expected that each PB will proceed
according to its own ability to carry out the project, buttressed by appro-
priate technical assistance. The result expected is an element of healthy
competition, leading to a better impact on agroindustries development than if
there were only one implementing bank.
4.03      Bank Misr's participation in the project has been agreed upon
conditionally, despite its disappointing performance on the Fruit and Vege-
table Development Project, for reasons indicated earlier (para. 2.14). The
conditions are as follows: First, Bank Misr would be required to commit the
available balance of about $11.2 million on the two credit components under
the Fruit and Vegetable Development Project prior to any commitments under the
new project. To facilitate this process, and in keeping with changed condi-
tions, the scope of the on-going project has been expanded from horticulture
to general agroindustries, and changes made in the on-lending terms, the most
significant being an increase in Bank Misr's 'margin' from 1.5% to 3% to 4%,
in line with that in the new project. It is projected that Bank Misr will
begin to commit funds from the new credit from about mid 1981, i.e. approxi-
mately one year from the expected effectiveness of the credit. Second, Bank
Misr would engage a firm of competent agroindustries consultants for the two
projects (para. 4.12). Assurances on this matter were obtained during nego-
tiations.
4.04      The three PBs would each carry out the agroindustries component of
the project through designated departments or units and with qualified manage-
ment and staff as well as retaining consultants where necessary (para. 4.10-4.12).
Each PB would establish suitable procedures for identification and processing
of subloan applications, as well as for their appraisal and implementation.
Implementation is envisaged as follows:
(i) Agroindustries lending will be part of DIB's regular opera-
tions, i.e. no special arrangements will be required, except
for assignment of staff from time to time to promote its
lending program and identify sub-projects in outlying
areas.
(ii) PBDAC's Investment and Development Department will implement
this project, under senior management guidance. It is
expected that the Governorate and village banks will increas-
ingly participate in the identification, processing and
supervision of subprojects.
(iii) The Agricultural Development Lending Department of Bank
Misr, and assigned staff from its Investment Center or other
departments, will implement the project under the direction
of a senior director. Its branches will be progressively
involved in sub-project identification, processing, and
supervision.



- 25 -
To sum up, the branch networks of Bank Misr and PBDAC would be gradually
strengthened to participate in sub-project identification and preparation and,
ultimately, in supervision. Each PB would also establish an appropriate
system for monitoring and evaluating the impact of this project in relation
to its objectives, i.e., the effect of the project on incremental commodity
throughputs and outputs, improvements in product quality and production costs,
investments generated, rates of return on investments and other relevant
parameters. Monitoring of progress towards servicing of small businesses,
especially in rural areas, should be achieved by normal supervision of
sub-projects, which will generate information on the distribution of sub-
projects by size, location, and investment characteristics.
4.05      The PBs are in the process of preparing for the project.  Bank Misr
is developing estimates of future business in agroindustries. PBDAC has made
an extrapolation, from its $5.6 million equivalent of agroindustries loan
applications approved or pending, of a doubling of approvals over this
level in two years. The constraint is likely to be PBDAC's processing capacity.
DIB prepares detailed projections of its overall operations and finances, but
not separately for agroindustries. However, it is projecting a 20% annual
increase in approvals of "food industries" sector sub-projects, which would
result in $16 million and $19 million equivalent in approvals in 1980 and
1981, respectively. These preliminary estimates show that the project funds
could be committed in two and a half years. The need has been discussed with
the PBs for each to prepare: (i) a plan for management and administration of
the project acceptable to IDA, including professional staffing requirements,
and implementation schedules; (ii) an indicative agroindustries lending
program, including estimates of future operations and an action plan for
serving small businesses outside major urban areas. As agreed during nego-
tiations, the above plan and program would be prepared by each PB for IDA's
consideration by June 30, 1980.
4.06      Slaughterhouses Component.  The physical replacement of the slaughter-
houses will inevitably affect the mode of their operation.  An appropriate
system of organization and management of each of the new slaughterhouses would
be introduced as early as possible. The inauguration of a new physical
slaughtering plant provides an excellent opportunity to introduce critically
needed improvements in organization and management, for which the existing
physical conditions of the slaughterhouse impose unfavorable conditions.
Assurances have been received during negotiations that the existing abattoirs
will be closed down within a year of the new abattoirs becoming operational.
Indeed, the present method of operation in the Cairo slaughterhouse (para.
3.05) is completely incompatible with the proposed new facility. The Borrower,
through the Veterinary Department, has agreed to effect substantial improve-
ments in the operation of the new slaughterhouse. A stronger management role
will be imposed. An operating manager will run the new plant with the following
department heads reporting to him: (i) livestock and slaughtering; (ii)
utilities and mechanical engineering; (iii) offals, casings, and inedible
by-products; and (iv) sanitation and shipping. The Veterinary unit will
operate in parallel with this structure, reporting to an overall Director (as
will the operating manager). These will constitute a significant change in
the method of operation; while the Veterinary Department of the Governorate



- 26 -
will continue to have jurisdiction over the slaughterhouse, the Veterinary
unit in the slaughterhouse will have a service function only. A future major
change is that the operating manager will have authority throughout the plant
(except for the Veterinary unit), whereas the present situation depends upon
independent work crews. It will be necessary to have a comprehensive operating
manual for the plants covering policies, job descriptions, accounting procedures,
etc. This will be prepared with the assistance of the consultants. The post
of operating manager is a key one; he would be selected at least a year before
the scheduled operation of the slaughterhouse. Each of the operating managers
would be assisted by a senior expert in management training and operations
(para. 4.14). The Governorates will prepare by June 30, 1981, for IDA's
consideration, the proposed organizational structure of the slaughterhouses,
with the operating manual. Assurances on all of the above matters were
obtained during negotiations.
4.07      The main function of the slaughterhouse will continue to be to
perform custom slaughtering on behalf of animal owners. The slaughterhouse
will accept animals in its quarantine pens, 24 hours prior to slaughtering,
at which time owners must cede control over their animals. The slaughterhouse
will conduct antemortem examination, and oversee and direct slaughtering, meat
inspection, and preparation of carcasses as well as edible offals for pick-up
by owners or their representatives. Animal owners will not be allowed inside
the slaughterhouse during processing and meat inspection. The slaughterhouse
will engage its own labor force to effect all operations against a single
payment of slaughtering fees. In order for animal owners to agree to the
above, they must be convinced that the carcasses and edible offal received
actually belong to the animal delivered. This is an important factor in the
success of the slaughterhouse. Therefore, the Borrower intends to encourage
animal owners to enter collectively into an association of animal owners
to represent their interest and act on their behalf. The association will
appoint an "identification group" responsible for placing identifying marks
on the skins of each animal such that the animal owner, or a group of them,
will have a unique identification mark. Immediately after slaughtering and
skinning, representatives of the animal owners association will supervise the
appointed markers while copying the marks from skins and hides on the carcass
and edible offals. The advantages of this system are its simplicity and
that it takes the responsibility of identifying individual animals from the
slaughterhouse management to the association of animal owners.
4.08      The Veterinary Department of the Cairo Governorate would sponsor the
establishment of a compensation fund for the purpose of financially assisting
individual animal owners in the event their animals are totally condemned as
unfit for human consumption. Membership will be open to all animal owners.
The level of compensation paid out in case of total condemnation will depend
on the level of premiums set for each type of animal, as this is a voluntary
insurance scheme. It is expected that the rate of condemnation will be higher
in the proposed slaughterhouse because meat inspectors will exercise more
objective judgment of meat fitness for human consumption in the absence of
animal owners and their representatives. Without such a compensation fund,
each animal owner stands to lose the full value of the condemned animals,



- 27 -
which is a great risk especially for the smaller owners. The Alexandria
slaughterhouse has operated a compensation fund successfully for a considerable
time. At present, the level of compensation is set at abotut one-third of the
wnolesale price, and because of fluctuations in the wholesale price, the level.
of premium has to be adjusted periodically.
4.09      It is recommended that meat pick-up from the Cairo slaughterhouse
to retail shops will continue to be in the hands of the private sector. The
Veterinary Department will enforce Law No. 685 of 1954 which requires certain
specifications for vehicles used to transport meat. Animal-drawn carts will
not be allowed to transport meats. The major factor considered in leaving
transport of meats with the private sector rather than slaughterhouse manage-
ment is that consumers prefer fresh meat, and housewives usually buy meat in
the mornings. This situation requires that meat from the slaughterhouse
should be distributed promptly to retail shops. Given the large number of
retail shops (estimated at 5,000) and difficult accessibility of a substantial
number of them to medium size trucks, it is more efficient to have animal
owners arrange their own transportation. However, for the new slaughterhouse
at Amiriya, Alexandria, the conditions are somewhat different. Due to the
greater distance from the city 11 and the substantially smaller number of
retail butchers, the Governorate has proposed that the slaughterhouse assume
responsibility for delivering 70% of the meat to retailers. Accordingly,
provision has been made for financing the purchase of 10, ter-ton insulated
trucks for the facility. The fee structure for both slaughterh ouses, which
has remained unchanged for 15 years, will be revised with the objective of
substantial cost recovery of the new plants (para 4.22).
B. Technical Assistance and Training
4.10      Credit Component.  The participating banks as well as the agro-
industry subborrowers need technical assistance to implement this project.
The banks need advice in identifying, appraising, and supervising agroindustry
subprojects; the subborrowers need advice on preparing their sub-projects.
Therefore, an important element for both is the technical preparation/appraisal
and associated business plan for the enterprise. These areas can be handled
by agroindustry consultants who would, while training the banks' staff on the
job, simultaneously be advising the subborrowers, Such expertise would
involve a knowledge of technical alternatives in order to arrive at the least
cost technical solution for the sub-projects. Similarly, in the business
planning aspects, it is recognized that profit planning in the food-industry--
certainly in the basic functions--rests on an understanding of certain factors
characteristic of the food industry:  a low gross margin and associated need
for high sales per invested capital, as well as dependence upon natural raw
materials, the prices and availability of which will vary with season, crop
condition, alternative overseas sources, etc. The essence of technical
assistance to the subborrowers is that they make investment decisions in-
1/   Provision will be made by the Governorate to transport workers to and
from the new plant.



- 28 -
frequently (this is doubly true of Egypt, where private enterprise has been
encouraged only recently), and while they may be expected to have a detailed
knowledge of their specialized area of concern, are not used to planning a
project on a comprehensive basis. Surveys of potential small borrowers under
this Project indicate that small business men in Egyptian agroindustry are
relatively sophisticated in educational and social background, although their
assets may be small, and there is little need for the type of specialized
efforts used in reaching small scale entrepreneurs in industry which might
include illiterate job shop owners (furniture making, welding, and the like).
It is expected that the approximately two-hundred sub-loans foreseen for this
component will be disbursed without making especially elaborate provisions for
basic instruction to semi-literate entrepreneurs, and that the shortage or
practical non-existence of medium term credit to industry has resulted in a
sufficiency of qualified small would-be borrowers.
4.11      The function of the banks in this project is not only to extend
credit to qualified enterprises, but to act as advisors in a role that would
be filled in more developed countries by trade associations, consultants,
or specialized government agencies, among others. This specialized advice
requires technical assistance by agroindustry consultants who would train
selected staff--preferably young qualified engineers--who would be able to
perform the work after the consultants departed, relying from then on, on
periodic referrals to consultants where necessary. Rather considerable inputs
of time will be necessary on first contact with prospective borrowers--whatever
their size--to formulate the sub-projects satisfactorily. The amount of time
will not necessarily vary with the size of the borrower, even though a more
comprehensive report will be required over the "free limit". But since it
is more profitable for the banks to disburse large amounts, an incentive in
the form of one point is to be provided for servicing small loans (para. 4.19)
as well as a limitation on the percentage of the proceeds of the credit going
to larger borrowers (para. 4.18). The task of the PBs in identifying sub-
projects will be approached within the context of a knowledge of the structure
of agroindustry in Egypt (in terms of numbers, types, and locations) by making
an appropriate plan to market the loans. The agroindustry consultants should
be able to advise on identification, while the banks can make necessary
arrangements to contact prospective borrowers through their branches, through
governors, through GOFI, or by other means.
4.12      The technical assistance for the three banks may be summarized as
follows:
(i) PBDAC would employ an experienced firm of consultants to
train senior staff and assist in the organization and
mangement of the agroindustries lending program, including
promotion of subprojects. The estimated total input is
48 man-months, from services of two or more experts as
appropriate.
(ii)  Likewise, Bank Misr would also engage a consulting firm with
similar duties, but with a greater emphasis on development of
a subproject pipeline and on technical aspects. If appropriate,
PBDAC and Bank Misr could have an agreement with one consulting
firm to provide necessary technical assistance through experts
assigned to each of them. The experts for Bank Misr would also



- 29 -
assist with the Fruit and Vegetables Development Project, in
view of the similarity of the two projects. The cost of
technical assistance to Bank Misr would be financed from funds
available under the Fruit and Vegetables Development Project.
(iii) DIB is already receiving considerable technical assistance under
previous projects, and is judged not to need any additional
support at this time.
4.13      Training for Agroindustries.  The on-the-job training to be carried
out with the assistance of consultants needs to be supplemented by a centrally
organized, formal training program for the staff of the PBs (including their
branches) as well as investors. Most of the professional staff of the PBs
have to acquire knowledge of the basic principles of investment financing and,
in addition, relatively large numbers of their middle level staff have to
upgrade their basic skills. It is envisaged that the formal training would
be carried out through the Institute of National Planning (INP) affiliated
with the Ministry of Planning, which is a central training organization in
fields of economic development. INP has carried out a series of courses on
agriculture and industry for a variety of Egyptian organizations. Its
resources and competence have been growing, and it has received assistance
from USAID and the Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the Bank, who rate
it favorably. Discussions on INP's participation are taking place with the
Association and the PBs, with the Government's support, and consideration
is being given as to what assistance the EDI could render, as well as the
need for other forms of assistance. Thus, the intention is to have suitable
locally-based training and simultaneously strengthen an important national
organization. A training program would be prepared by the parties concerned
and submitted by June 30, 1980, through the Government, for IDA's considera-
tion.
4.14       Slaughterhouses.  For each abattoir, a senior expert in management
training and operations with qualifications acceptable to IDA, including at
least ten years operating experience in custom on-the-rails abattoirs, will be
retained. Each of the experts, who would be engaged about three months prior
to the commencement of operations of the respective new slaughterhouse for 18
to 24 months, would advise on training of key personnel, and on organizational,
operational and technical matters.  Prior to the anticipated opening of the
abattoirs, the managers-designate will be enrolled in 12-month work-study
programs overseas.  In addition, overseas training programs will be financed
as follows:
Six veterinarians (three months each),
four master mechanics (one year each) and six foreman (six
months each).
Such training programs would be prepared by June 30, 1980, for review by
IDA, and appropriately qualified staff selected by September 30, 1980, for
training. Assurances on these matters were received during negotiations.



- 30 -
C. Studies for Wholesale Markets
4.15      The purpose of these studies is to prepare a project for the reloca-
tion and modernization of the main wholesale markets for fruits and vegetables
in Cairo and Alexandria. These studies would include: (i) review of the
produce marketing system in Egypt; (ii) marketing and transport analysis of
present produce distribution system in the two cities; and (iii) recommenda-
tions on type and location of proposed facilities, together with preliminary
cost estimates, as well as operating procedures (Project File, Terms of
Reference). It was agreed during negotitions that consultants acceptable to
IDA would be appointed by September 30, 1980. It is expected that the studies
would take one year to complete.
D. On-lending Procedures and Terms and Conditions
4.16      Credit Component:  The $25 million IDA credit amount allocated
for agroindustries would be available for financing of specific agroindustrial
subprojects by all the PBs. Thus, the credit would not be preallocated
between the PBs, but available on a first-come, first-served basis, as an open
line of credit. It will be up to the PBs to generate the volume of business
which they can process. For good order and coordination, the Government, as
the Borrower, would operate the agroindustries credit as follows: A start-up
fund of $3 million would be assigned to each PB against which it could make
commitments. (Bank Misr would be able to use this start-up fund only after it
has fully committed the uncommitted amount in the relevant credit component of
the Fruit and Vegetables Development Project, vide para. 4.03.) As and when a
PB has fully or substantially committed its portion, the Government would
provide it with a further tranche of funds, after appropriate review. This
process would be repeated until the full amount of the agroindustries credit
has been made available to the PBs. In the event that, in the judgement of the
Government, any PB has not committed funds available to it within a reasonable
period, the uncommitted balance will be transferred to one or both of the
other PBs. The status of commitments would be periodically reviewed by the
Government and the Association. Each tranche of funds assigned to a PB will be
subject to the limits on the financing of small and public sector subborrowers
(para. 4.18).
4.17      The PBs would carry out adequate technical and financial appraisal
of subprojects to be financed to determine their viability. There will be
two distinct procedures for financing from the IDA credit, depending on
whether a subloan is above or below a "free limit" amount, which has been
established at US$250,000 equivalent. For any subloan exceeding this amount,
the PB would present its appraisal report (including a detailed description of
the sub-borrower) on the subproject, which will be subject to the Association's
review and approval, prior to authorization to withdraw. Applications for
subloans of or below the free limit need to be supported only by a summary
description in an agreed format, on receipt of which the Association would
normally authorize withdrawals promptly. Since in the early stages of the



- 31 -
project it might be necessary to check the quality of appraisals carried out
by the PBs, the Association intends to request from them appraisal reports on
a sample basis of their free limit subprojects, after authorizations to
withdraw.
4.18      This project is aimed at increasing the access of small business
to institutional financing. Accordingly, the PBs would be expected to make
special efforts to reach out to such entities. For the purposes of this
project, and unless otherwise agreed between the Government and the Associa-
tion, a "small subborrower" is defined as a subborrower with fixed assets
(excluding lands and buildings), valued at not more than LE 200,000 at the
time of a loan application, and applying for a subloan not exceeding US$250,000
equivalent. Not less than 33% of the IDA credit proceeds for the agro-
industries component (US$8.3 million) will be reserved for financing small
subborrowers. The PBs have agreed to make every effort to ensure that subloans
would be made to as large a number of subborrowers as feasible. For any
relatively large subloan which would constitute a substantial portion of the
credit allocated for agroindustries, the Association would seek, prior to
approval, the views of the Government and the PBs on its economic and social
impact. Assurances on these matters were obtained during negotiations. Also,
in line with the project objective of encouraging the financing of private
sector investments, not more than 25% of the IDA credit proceeds can be uti-
lized for financing public sector subprojects.
4.19      The annual rate of interest to be charged by the Government to the
PBs on the IDA credit proceeds would be 7% for on-lending to small subborrowers
and 8% for on-lending to others. The 1% interest differential between these
two classes of subborrowers is intended to compensate the PBs for the additional
administative expenses and risks usually involved in lending to small enter-
prises, and partly as an incentive to them to actively promote links with such
enterprises. The PBs would on-lend the IDA credit proceeds to subborrowers at
an annual rate of interest of not less than 11%. The exchange risk between
Egyptian pounds and US dollars would be borne by subborrowers. The Bank's
exverience is that small investors in Egypt are willing to bear this exchange
risk. The minimum 11% on-lending rate is the average of the range of rates,
10% to 12%, prescribed by the Central Bank for term loans in local currency.
Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt. The wholesale price index
shows increases of 10.3% each in 1976 and 1977 and 8.7% in 1978. However, the
official index is strongly biased by controlled prices for essential commodi-
ties, especially basic foodstuffs, and does not adequately reflect price move-
ments in uncontrolled markets where price rises tend to be significantly
higher. Hence, it is difficult to ascertain whether or not the current
interest rate on local currency loans is adequate in light of inflation.
Nevertheless, stabilization policies are currently under review by the Govern-
ment, which is also considering further adjustments to the interest rates.
Also, the effect of the foreign exchange risk has to be taken into account.
The "unified" rate of exchange of about LE 70=$100 adopted by the Government
as of January 1, 1979, implied a devaluation of about 45% from the previous
official rate. A legal "free" foreign exchange market is in operation, with
transactions through approved banks. Until recently, the free market exchange
rate was close to the unified official rate, but has now gone down to between
LE 78-80 for $100. There is a reasonable possibility that in the next five



- 32 -
years, the Egyptian pound could decline in relation to the US dollar,
although neither the decline nor its extent can be predicted. Therefore,
the cost of funds to subborrowers bearing the exchange risk is likely
to be more than the nominal 11% rate of interest.
4.20      The PBs would establish separate minimum subborrower contributions
by small and other subborrowers to the financing of the cost of subprojects;
for small subborrowers this would normally be 15%. The share of IDA financing
for subloans would be 70%, with subborrowers contributing an average of 20%,
and the PBs providing the balance of each subproject cost. Subloan amortiza-
tion schedules would be based on projected cash flows and debt repayment
capacities of subprojects as analyzed by the PBs, and would not normally
exceed 12 years in any individual case, including grace periods not exceeding
three years. The schedule of repayment to the Borrower of the IDA credit
amount withdrawn by each PB would conform substantially to the aggregate of
the subloan amortization schedules for the respective PB. The security or
collateral required by the PBs of subborrowers would be governed by their
present, generally conservative, practices which follow legal or statutory
requirements in their strictest interpretation. For example, only "real,"
i.e., fixed assets, can be accepted as security. However, as the project
implementation proceeds and the PBs gain experience in medium and long-term
lending, the Association would expect the Government and the PBs to examine
and adopt more liberal security requirements, placing greater emphasis on
the future financial prospects of subborrowers and expanding the types of
security instruments which will be acceptable, such as chattel mortgage.
4.21      Slaughterhouses.  The Cairo Governorate siaughterhouse would receive
a 25-year (including 4 years grace), 8% loan from the Government amounting
to 80% of the total investment; this loan is estimated to be LE 8.4 million;
the balance being financed by an equity contribution from the Government.
The Alexandria Governorate would receive a loan on the same terms from the
Government, but amounting to 50% of the total investment; this loan is esti-
mated to be LE 2.6 million, the balance being financed by a grant including
LE 1.6 million equivalent out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit. Exchange
risk will be carried by the Government. Technical assistance, including
supervising engineers during construction, would be financed by a Central
Government grant to the two Governorates out of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit. The execution of financing agreements between the Government and the
Governorates would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
4.22      Cost Recovery.  The proposed abattoir at Cairo would recover 80% of
its capital costs at an interest rate of 8% on the sub-loan, and the full
operating and maintenance costs. The proposed abattoir at Alexandria would
cover all its operating and maintenance costs as well as recovering one-half
of its capital costs at an interest rate of 8% on the sub-loan. Cash flow
analyses show that this is the maximum cost recovery that can be achieved
without assuming an unrealistic and impractical schedule of tariffs. The
lower rate of cost recovery for Alexandria is due to the fact that it will



- 33 -
have a substantially lower throughput than Cairo (based on present and fore-
cast numbers) and thus will not have benefit from economies of scale to
the same extent as Cairo. I/ Effective slaughter fees at Cairo would be
raised 43% for cattle and by lesser amounts for other species. 2/ Recommended
fees are necessarily somewhat higher for Alexandria because of its lower
throughput, but again, not to the extent of encouraging illegal slaughter and
consequently undermining the raison d'etre of the project.  During negotiations,
it was agreed that the Governorates would gradually adjust the slaughtering
fees in each slaughterhouse to the extent required to provide it with revenues
sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance expenses and meet interest
on and amortize its debt incurred in financing.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.23      Each of the PBs would maintain its own project-related accounts.
The Government would keep overall records for the agroindustries credit
component, and carry out the necessary control and coordination. The above
accounts of each PB would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the
Association.  The statements of project accounts with the corresponding audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months from the end of the
respective fiscal year. Under ongoing projects, Bank Misr, DIB, and PBDAC are
required to have their accounts and financial statements audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/IDA, and to submit these financial
statements and related audit reports to the Bank or IDA within specified time
limits. These obligations would continue. The Governorates will maintain
separate accounts for the slaughterhouses, and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that audited reports including income statements and balance
sheets will be sent to IDA within six months of the end of the financial year.
The Government's Central Agency for Accounting has been deemed to be an
acceptable audit agency to IDA for this purpose.
F. Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation
4.24     Credit Component.  The PBs will report every three months listing
sub-loan criteria including approvals, commitments, and disbursements. Data
concerning geographic location, employment, output, exports, etc. will be
routinely generated. IDA and the PBs will monitor progress of project imple-
mentation in relation to project objectives (para. 3.01), goals, and schedules
1/   Estimated cost of the Alexandria abattoir is one-half that of Cairo, but
throughput for Alexandria is approximately 1/6.
2/   For cattle, LE 5 versus LE 4 for Cairo; for large calves, LE 4 versus
LE 3 for Cairo; for sheep, LE 1 versus LE 0.75 in Cairo.



- 34 -
by collating reports from PBs and thereby be in a position to recommend
modifications and improvements to be made to the project if necessary. The
PBs will prepare completion reports evaluating the impact of the project in
terms of the benefits expected from the project (para. 5.01). Several of
these benefits (reduction in waste, improvements in diets) are not readily
quantifiable but indicative measures will be expected. With regard to the
impact on the institutional capabilities of the PBs themselves, this will be
evaluated through discussions by supervision missions with the PBs taking into
account primary criteria, as increased capability to serve small agroindustries
measured by new business generated in and out the project, and subsidiary
criteria in terms of personnel training, transfer of knowledge from technical
consultants, and ability to formulate improved marketing plans.
4.25      Slaughterhouse Component.  Quarterly reports will be prepared by
the respective Governorates for IDA. During construction, the supervising
engineers will originate the reports, and during operations the Veterinary
Departments will originate the reports. IDA and the Governorates will monitor
tariffs charged (slaughter fees) (para.4.22), as well as condemnation rates
(as a measure of veterinary inspection procedures), the general status of
hygiene prevailing, and other procedures laid down in the operational manual
(para. 4.06).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Credit Component
5.01      Major benefits expected from the agroindustries to be financed
under the credit component of the project include:
-    reduction in waste as a result of improved storage, processing
and transport;
-    provision for processing and distributing increased volume
of food staples to serve a growing population;
-    creation of rural employment;
-    extending marketing regions, with potential increase in
producer incomes;
-    improvement in diets from provision of greater variety of
foods available;
-    contribution to balance of payments through encouragement
of export industries, as well as import substitution.
In addition, the project would strengthen the institutional capabilities of
the participating banks through technical assistance, thereby strengthening



- 35 -
the linkage between financing agencies and small and medium sized agroindus-
tries, many of whom have no access to medium term credit. The project would
also provide support to the training capabilities of a national organization
(the Institute of National Planning).
B.  Slaughterhouses
5.02      The principal benefit to be derived from the proposed slaughter-
houses would be improved public health through slaughter under greatly
improved conditions of hygiene. The present slaughterhouses are extremely
unhygienic with pools of stagnant water and effluent and rodents. While
statistics are not available, it is clear from observation that the facilities
have to be considered a threat to public health. In addition, environmental
benefits would arise from correcting the present situation with respect to
untreated effluents being discharged into the city's sewage system, as well
as relieving the traffic congestion from live animals by relocating the
abattoirs in more suitable areas. Land released by the relocations will be
used for necessary activities appropriate to the surroundings--residential in
the case of Cairo, and harbor-related warehousing in Alexandria. While these
benefits are difficult to quantify they are substantial, and the Egyptian
Government has accorded a high priority to the replacement of the slaughtering
facilities. More readily quantified benefits would be better utilization of
by-products, including hide take-off and conservation of blood as well as
improved production of tallow. (These are reflected in the projected income
statements, Project File.) The social benefits to be derived from relocating
the Alexandria slaughterhouse include the cessation of emptying its effluent
into the Western Harbor, where sea life has practically died because of lack
of oxygen and the associated pollution of adjacent beaches which are a main
attraction to the city's large domestic tourist trade.
C. Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Markets Studies
5.03      The present markets in these two cities are not able to carry out
their functions with any degree of efficiency, and their relocation would
result in a number of benefits. These benefits include: reduction of wastage,
or waiting time of vehicles both in and out, reduction in traffic congestion
in area surrounding the market, and value of land released. The proposed
studies will prepare a project to garner these benefits, and will measure the
expected benefits.
D. Beneficiaries
5.04      Beneficiaries under the project include:  (i) urban consumers,
through the increased availability of wholesome food; (ii) farmers who would
have increased markets for their products; and (iii) workers in jobs created



- 36 -
by the project. Based on a ratio of retail revenues to assets of at least two
to one, representative of agroindutries, the agroindustries credit of US$35.7
million equivalent may be expected to generate about twice that figure in
value of output (even excluding the proportion exported). With an average
annual per capita expenditure on food in urban Egypt of US$210 equivalent the
food needs of some 340,000 consumers would be served by the project.  A wide
range of activities are expected to be financed under the project, and while
the poorest consumers may not be significantly helped because they rarely
consume livestock products, a laige number of people above the absolute
poverty level but still substantially poor would be benefitted. 1/ The annual
output of the Cairo and Alexandria abattoirs will be valued at approximately
LE 90 million (retail value), and as the average per capita expenditure
on meat is approximately LE 14, something of the order of six and one half
million consumers would be served by the abattoirs. Finally, the relationship
of farm output to ngroindustries investment can be calculated by assuming a
gLOSs agricultural output of $1,850 per farm family and a raw materials intake
by agroindustries of about 50% of output; assuming that the average farm
family supplies une quarter of its total output ($460) as raw materials to
agrnindustries of the type that are likely to be financed ($35.7 million) then
about 7-,000 farm families would be served by the project.
,~.w)     Effect on Employment.  The agroindustries component of the project
involves modernization and expansion of existing productive facilities as
well as creation of new facilities, with expectation of resulting increases
in productivity of the existing labor force and creation of new employment,
respectively. Very rough calculations have been made of the employment impact
ot four illustrative agroindustries models. They show the capital cost per
job to be between LE 10,000 and LE 27,000, reflecting the differences in their
capital intensity. These figures are in line with those in a recent Bank
study, which estimated the average cost per job for the mining, manufacturing
and distribution sectors at about LE 17,500, which are comparable sectors with
respect to cheir capital intensity. Based on the four-model estimates and
weighing them 60% for smaller, less capital-intensive ventures (para. 3.02),
an estimated 2,000 jobs may be expected to be generated by the credit component
of the project. There will be little new employment from the slaughterhouses
(except during construction) as these are replacement projects.
E. Financial anid Economic Rate of Return
5.06       Specific sub-projects to be financed under the credit component are
not yet known.  Tndicative ilnancial rates of return (FRR) for agroindustries
1/   About 78% of the urban population are above the absolute poverty level
while two-thirds of the urban population have annual incomes less than
the urban average of $500 (1978).



- 37 -
of the types likely to be financed under the project are of the order of 25%
on total assets employed and 35% on owner's equity (before taxes). These
calculations are based on models in the Project File of representative actual
investments (dairy processing, block ice plant, cold store, and egg packing
plant). The financial rate of return to all resources are calculated respec-
tively as: (i) dairy processing plant producing UHT milk, cheese, and yogurt,
24%; egg packing plant (12,000 layer unit) 40%; block ice plant (25 tons day
of 25 kg blocks), 17%; cold store renting space for meat and vegetables, 24%.
Financial rates of return on actual subprojects submitted during the first
half of 1979 by Bank Misr under the Fruit and Vegetables Project ranged from
16% to 39% for comparable investments. Sub-projects involving modernization
are likely to show higher rates of return because of the effect of sunk costs,
while projects involving price controlled products will show lower but still
satisfactory financial rates of return, as the Government's price policy does
allow for a profit margin, and an annual return on invested funds, of approxi-
mately 20%. Economic rates of return are higher than the opportunity cost of
capital as showrn by analyses of illustrative models. For instance, on the
basis of waste reduction of 15% to 30% for products cooled in a cold store,
the indicative ERR would range from 32% to 77% compared to a FRR of 24%.
Similarly, for a block ice plant, a waste reduction of 15% for products
shipped to market in ice would result in an ERR of 59% compared to a FRR of
17%.  Finally, an investment by a dairy plant in a UHT process would have an
ERR exceeding 100% on the basis of 15% savings in spoilage for sterile (UHT)
milk over pasteurized milk in an economy where refrigeration is uncommon.
5.07      Slaughterhouses.  For Cairo, a financial rate of return of 9% is
calculated. This modest rate of return does not reflect the substantial
public health benefits described above (para. 5.02). The financial rate of
return for the Alexandria slaughterhouse is about 3%, but this calculation
merely confirms the effect of keeping fees low enough to discourage illegal
slaughtering and does not measure the very substantial benefits of the
project (para. 5.02).
5.08      Least cost solution:  The slaughterhouses are designed as the least
cost solution. The design criteria (para. 3.08) stress that simplicity and
semiautomation should be the keynotes to the abattoirs. Substantial economies
of scale favor one major metropolitan slaughterhouse for each city rather than
several satellite abattoirs (para. 3.07).
5.09      Risk and Sensitivity Analysis.  The types of agroindustries pro-
posed to be financed under the project are relatively simple in technology,
and associated with projects which are already in operation. Moreover,
many ventures are to be undertaken by the private sector where the investor
has considerable incentive to implement the sub-project successfully.
The major risks in the credit component are associated with failure to commit
and disburse funds as a result of the quality of performance of the intermediary
participating banks, but this risk is minimized by working with three such
intermediaries competing for funds with no quota for any one (except an
initial small allocation). The two slaughterhouses proposed will replace
existing obsolete facilities, and do not face the problems of generating new



- 38 -
business. The risks associated with the slaughterhouses are associated
with the quality of the management in the Governorates and the veterinary
departments. Provision has been made for consulting advice and technical
training in an attempt to minimize this risk. Sensitivity tests on indicative
agroindustry models show that the rates of return for these enterprises are
more sensitive to reductions in revenues than to investment or operating cost
increases of similar magnitude. Typical of the four illustrative models, the
dairy model has a base FRR of 24%. With 10% increases in investment cost and
operating costs the rate of return drops respectively to 22% and 19%. When
benefits decrease by 10%, FRR drops to 16%. As a majority of the enterprises
are expected to be in the private sector, they will have some ability to vary
their prices outside Government edict, and thereby cover inflationary increases
in operating costs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
A.   The Government would:
(i)  enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with Bank Misr, PBDAC,
and DIB (the PBs) on terms satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.01);
(ii) in coordinating the credit component, ensure the observance
of the minimum limit of financing from the IDA credit of
"small" subprojects, and the maximum limit for financing
of public sector subprojects (para. 4.18);
(iii) be responsible for preparing a training program for PBs and
subborrowers (para. 4.13); and
(iv)  enter into financing agreements with the Cairo and Alexandria
governorates, on terms acceptable to the Association, for: (a)
the construction of slaughterhouses, providing for relending of
a part of the proceeds of the IDA credit on agreed terms and
for appropriate other financing through grants from the credit
and budgetary allocations (paras. 3.11 and 4.21); and (b) a study
of wholesale markets, and financing thereof (para. 4.15).
B.   The PBs would:
(i)  each prepare and furnish to IDA not later than June 30, 1980, a
suitable organization plan for implementing the project and an
agroindustries lending program (para. 4.05);
(ii) on-lend the IDA credit proceeds at annual rates of interest of
not less than 11%, with the exchange risk between the dollar
and the Egyptian pound borne by subborrowers (para. 4.19); and



- 39 -
(iii) engage agroindustries consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.12).
C.   The Governorates of Alexandria and Cairo would:
(i) cause the abattoirs to charge slaughter fees sufficient to
meet operating expenses and amortize loans for those facilities
(para. 4.22);
(ii)  implement organizational procedures for the abattoirs satisfactory
to IDA (para. 4.06);
(iii) appoint an experienced manager and retain an expert on management
training and operations for each of the abattoirs (para. 4.06);
and
(iv)  close the existing abattoirs at Cairo and Alexandria  within one
year of the new abattoirs becoming operational (para 4.06).
6.02      A condition of commitment by Bank Misr is that it first commit the
funds available under the general credit components of Loan 1276 (para. 4.03).
6.03      Execution of the two project agreements between IDA on the one hand
and the PBs and the two Governorates, respectively, on the other, will be con-
ditions of effectiveness of the credit. Execution of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment between the Government and PBs for the credit component of the project,
and of financing agreements between the Government and the two Governorates,
will be additional conditions of effectiveness (para. 4.01). Another condition
of effectiveness will be the employment by the Governorates of consultants for
bid evaluation and supervision of construction (para. 3.16).
6.04      The project would be suitable for an IDA credit fo US$45 million to
the Arab Republic of Egypt on the above terms and conditions.



-40 -                               ANNEX 1
EGYPT
AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A. 1 IBRD. Egypt: Agricultural Sector Memorandum, August 1978
B.  Selected REorts and Studies Relating to the Project
B. 1 Report on Small Industries in Egypt by E. G. Shoreibah.
August 1978
B. 2 Agroindustries Project Preappraisal, EMENA Projects Department,
Agriculture IV Division, September 22, 1978
C. Principal Annexes
C. 1 Banking Sector, including background data on participating banks.
C. 2 Cairo and Alexandria slaughterhouses--data on present operations
and distribution system. Cost estimates and cashflow analysis.
C. 3 Cairo and Alexandria wholesale fruit and vegetable markets--
statistics on volumes and seasonality of produce handled,
C. 4  Agroindustries:  Illustrative models, with financial analysis.
A generalized list of agroindustries.
C. 5 Terms of Reference for Consultants to be retained under the
Project:
a) for participating banks
b) for wholesale market studies
c) for slaughterhouse consultant-engineers



r ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      A- A=  2 .     i                                                      I            --                                          =
L  or ;,V -                                                                                      -02           ;z        AIR    !         f ;-        -t                         A- 
,EA,                                             ' ,    >"''S
I :0;;                                                          0                                         ft X       .dy   't  4    00 FX,          3-41
,   I        $      ' .           '.             -                :
A>3           A#INA -.DV .,                                                                                                                        -X AAAA
-~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                    -,u GtoA  5$         ,0
-    -  Interra2nol boundares                                          ?>\   ,                       ,
-A'-
A~~~~~~~~~~                    5
Rlvers~-                   t- s
- -   'Ncd s                                                                                                                  kp~~~~~~~~~~~~A  Al Ns- ~1
24]  20  40       60 MIle.                                                                                          SXAA J LlactAA  A
-At~~~~~~ IAG-
~~~~TU R K E Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~- 
I R A N  ,                   -
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A
IA,blA'd rerEPUbL16  x   S AU D    A RA BlA                                          cA    A               r
/           ,> ;r.



