OFFICA L       CREDIT NUMBER 988 EGT
DQCUYENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agro-Indus tries Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 988 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1980, between
the ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A and D (1) of the Project will be carried out by
the Participating Banks referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of this
Agreement and Parts B, C and D (2) thereof by the Governorates of
Cairo and Alexandria with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the said
Participating Banks and the Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Association and
the Participating Banks and between the Association and the
Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Participating Banks" means Bank Misr, the Development
Industrial Bank and the Principal Bank for Development and Agri-
cultural Credit;
(b) "Governorates" means the Governorate of Cairo and the
Governorate of Alexandria;
(c) "Participating Banks Project Agreement" means the
Agreement between the Association and the Participating Banks
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to said Project Agree-
ment and all agreements supplemental thereto;
(d) "Governorates Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and the Governorates of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term in-
cludes all schedules to said Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental thereto;
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Participating Banks
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) "Cairo Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Governorate of Cairo
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to said Financing Agreement;
(g) "Alexandria Financing Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Governorate of
Alexandria pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to said Financing Agreement;
(h) "Egyptian Pounds" and the letters "LE" mean pounds in
the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
any of the Participating Banks out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to them under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to a sub-
borrower and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(j) "sub-borrower" means a borrower to which a Participating
Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(k) "small sub-borrower" means a sub-borrower to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $250,000, and whose fixed assets
(excluding land and buildings) do not exceed the equivalent of
LE200,000 or such other amount as the Borrower and the Association
may agree; and
(1) "sub-project" means an agro-industrial project to be
carried out by a sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a sub-
loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a sub-loan under Part A of the Project
unless (i) the sub-loan shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for
which the Association shall have authorized withdrawal from the
Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for a sub-
project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $250,000 equivalent or
such other amount as shall be agreed from time to time between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for Part
B of the Project, shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Governorates Project Agreement.


﻿Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1990, and ending November 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall:
(i) cause the Participating Banks to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Participating
Banks Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action neces-
sary or appropriate to enable the Participating
Banks to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(ii) cause the Governorates to perform in accordance
with the Governorates Project Agreement and their


﻿-5-
respective Financing Agreements all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the Governorates to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated under Categories (1), (4) (i) and (5) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the
Participating Banks under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Participating Banks
under terms and conditions (including those set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement) which shall have been approved by the Associ-
ation.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) relend to the Governorate of Cairo out of the
proceeds of the Credit the amount allocated under
Category (2) (i) of the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a
financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Governorate of Cairo under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those set forth in Part A of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and
(ii) make available to the Governorate of Cairo, under
such financing agreement (A) an amount of two
million two hundred fifty thousand Egyptian Pounds
(LE2,250,000), or such other amount as shall be
required for the construction and equipping of the
Cairo slaughterhouse included in Part B of the
Project, (B) an amount out of the proceeds of the
Credit equivalent to three hundred eighty thousand
dollars ($380,000) and an additional amount of
fifty-five thousand Egyptian Pounds (LE55,000) or
such other amount as shall be required for the
supervision of construction of the Cairo slaughter-
house, engaging of the expert referred to in Part
D.2 (b) (ii) of the Project and for the training
of its staff, and (C) an amount out of the proceeds


﻿- 6 -
of the Credit equivalent to two hundred seventy
thousand dollars ($270,000) and an additional
amount of fifty-six thousand Egyptian Pounds
(LE56,000) or such other amount as shall be re-
quired for the carrying out of the study for the
relocation of the fruit and vegetable wholesale
market in Cairo, all such amounts from the proceeds
of the Credit shall be provided in the form of a
grant and all such amounts in Egyptian Pounds shall
be provided in the form of budgetary allocations.
(d) The Borrower shall:
(i) relend to the Governorate of Alexandria out of the
proceeds of the Credit an amount equivalent to
two million nine hundred thousand dollars
($2,900,000) out of the amount allocated under
Category (2) (ii) of the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a
financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Governorate of Alexandria under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, including those set forth in Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii) make available to the Governorate of Alexandria,
under such financing agreement (A) an amount
equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($1,800,000) out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated under the aforementioned Category
(2) (ii) and an additional amount of two million
fifty-two thousand Egyptian Pounds (LE2,052,000),
or such other amount as shall be required for the
construction and equipping of the Alexandria
slaughterhouse included in Part B of the Project,
(B) an amount out of the proceeds of the Credit
equivalent to three hundred eighty thousand dollars
($380,000) and an additional amount of fifty-five
thousand Egyptian Pounds (LE55,000) or such other
amount as shall be required for the supervision of
construction of the Alexandria slaughterhouse,
engaging of the expert referre- to in Part D.2 (b)
(ii) of the Project and for the training of its
staff, and (C) an amount out of the proceeds of the
Credit equivalent to two hundred seventy thousand


﻿-7-
dollars ($270,000) and an additional amount of
fifty-six thousand Egyptian Pounds (LE56,000) or
such other amount as shall be required for the
carrying out of the study for the relocation of the
fruit and vegetable wholesale market in Alexandria,
all such amounts from the proceeds of the Credit
shall be provided in the form of a grant and all
such amounts in Egyptian Pounds shall be provided
in the form of budgetary allocations.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, the Cairo Financing Agreement and the
Alexandria Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Cairo Financing Agreement
or the Alexandria Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall (i) maintain separate
records for Part A of the Project, (ii) take all action required
on its part to ensure compliance by the Participating Banks with
the provisions of Article III of the Participating Banks Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that (i) not less
than thirty-three per cent (33%) of the amounts allocated under
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for Part A of the Project shall be allocated for
sub-loans to small sub-borrowers, and (ii) sub-loans to public
sector enterprises shall not, in the aggregate, exceed twenty-five
per cent (25%) of the amount allocated under said Category (1).
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall prepare, in cooperation with
the Participating Banks, and submit to the Association for its
review and not later than June 30, 1980, the training program
referred to in Part D (1) (b) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 8 -
(a) either of the Governorates shall have failed to perform
any covenant, agreement or obligation under the Governorates
Project Agreement or under its respective Financing Agreement;
(b) the Participating Banks or any one of them shall have
failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of the
Participating Banks under the Participating Banks Project Agree-
ment or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any one of the Participating Banks or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) chereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the Governorates, the Participa-
ting Banks or any one of them, as the case may be; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Participating Banks;
(b) the Cairo Financing Agreement and the Alexandria Finan-
cing Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
the Governorate of Cairo and the Governorate of Alexandria,
respectively; and
(c) the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of the
Governorates Project Agreement shall have been employed by the
Governorates.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Participating Banks Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Participating Banks, and is
legally binding upon the Participating Banks in accordance with
its terms;
(b) that the Governorates Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Governorates, and is legally binding
upon the Governorates in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Participating Banks
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Participating
Banks in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the Cairo Financing Agreement and the Alexandria
Financing Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Governorate of Cairo and the Governorate of
Alexandria, respectively, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Governorate of Cairo and the Governorate of
Alexandria, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date     LA-        I U00is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation and the Under Secretary for International
Finance of the Borrower are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo,
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND             348 GAFEC
ECONOMIC COOPERATION
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By/4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Credit for Agro-             19,000,000        100% of for-
industries under                              eign expendi-
Part A of the                                 tures and
Project                                       60% of local
expenditures
(2) Civil works
and equipment
for slaughter-
houses under
Part B of the
Project:
(i) Governorate              9,000,000     ) 100% of foreign
of Cairo                              ) expenditures
) and 60% of
(ii) Governorate              4,700,000     ) local expendi-
of Alexandria                         ) tures
(3) Wholesale markets               500,000        100%
study under Part C
of the Project:
(4) Technical Assistance:
(i) for the Principal
Bank for Develop-
ment and Agricul-
tural Credit
under Part D (1)          400,000     )
(a) of the Proj-                      ) 100%
ect                                   )


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(ii) under Part D (2)          300,000     )
(b) (ii) of the                      ) 100%
Project                               )
(5) Training under Part            200,000        100%
D (1) (b) of the
Project
(6) Technical Assistance           500,000        100%
under Part D (2) (a)
of the Project
(7) Training under Part
D (2) (b) (i) of the
Project
(i) Governorate of             100,000  )
Cairo                               )   100%
(ii) Governorate of             100,000  )
Alexandria                          )
(8) Unallocated                   10,200,000
TOTAL         45,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 13 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (i) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $70,000 may be made in respect of Category (6) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 15, 1980; and (ii) in respect of sub-loans made by Bank
Misr until it has committed under the Loan Agreement (Fruit and
Vegetables Development Project) dated June 11, 1976 between the
Borrower and the Bank, out of the funds allocated for Part D of
said Fruit and Vegetables Development Project an amount equiva-
lent to twenty million five hundred thousand dollars
($20,500,000).
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿- 14 -
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are:
(i) to help modernize and expand the processing
and marketing of basic agricultural products
and associated services and input activities;
(ii) to help forge links between financial institutions
and agro-industries, especially those which are of
small and medium size and mostly located in rural
areas, and to strengthen and expand the participat-
ing banks' assistance to such industries.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Credit
The provision of credit to agro-industries for the establish-
ment, modernization and expansion of facilities for primary pro-
cessing, marketing and distribution of basic foodstuffs and other
agricultural commodities together with associated services and
input activities.
Part B:   Slaughterhouses
The construction and equipping of two slaughterhouses in
Cairo and Alexandria.
Part C:   Wholesale Markets
The carrying out of studies for the relocation of fruit and
vegetable wholesale markets in Cairo and Alexandria.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   (a) The provision of technical assistance to the Par-
ticipating Banks for the purposes of identifying,
appraising and supervising sub-projects and to
sub-borrowers for the purpose of preparation of
sub-projects.
(b) The carrying out of a training program for staff of
Participating Banks and sub-borrowers, and provi-
sion of technical assistance and support services
for this purpose.


﻿- 16 -
2.   (a) The employment of engineering consultants to
assist in the evaluation of bids for and the
supervision of the construction of the slaughter-
houses provided in Part B hereof.
(b) (i) The carrying out of a training program for the
managers, veterinarians, master mechanics and
foremen of the slaughterhouses provided under
Part B above; and
(ii) the employment for a period of between 18 and
24 months of an expert for each of the two
slaughterhouses referred to in Part B hereof,
to assist in management training and opera-
tions.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions
under which the amounts referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement (hereinafter called the Subsidiary Loan) shall be lent
by the Borrower to the Participating Banks:
(1) Term: not exceeding fifteen years including four years
of grace.
(2) Interest: 7% per annum on amounts withdrawn on account
of sub-loans made *to small sub-borrowers; and 8% per
annum on amounts withdrawn on account of sub-loans made
to other sub-borrowers.
(3) The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan made by the
Borrower to the Participating Banks shall be the equiva-
lent in Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the date or
respective dates of repayment) of the dollar equivalent
(determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal
from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect
of such Subsidiary Loan.
(4) The Participating Banks shall repay the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan in accordance with an amortiza-
tion schedule which shall conform in relevant part
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicable to sub-loans.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of the
Cairo Financing Agreement and
the Alexandria Financing Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions
under which the amounts referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (i) and
3.01 (d) (i) shall be relent by the Borrower to the Governorate
of Cairo and Alexandria, respectively.
A.   Governorate of Cairo:
(1) Term: 25 years including a four year grace period.
(2) Interest: 8% per annum on outstanding amounts.
(3) The Borrower shall assume the risk of loss due to
fluctuations in the values of currencies.
B.   Governorate of Alexandria:
(1) Term: 25 years including a four year grace period.
(2) Interest: 8% per annum on outstanding amounts.
(3) The Borrower shall assume the risk of loss due to
fluctuations in the values of currencies.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness. whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  /J        day of
19SEL..A
FOR SECRETARY


