OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 988 EGT
DOCUMERTS
Project Agreement
(Agro-Industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GOVERNORATE OF CAIRO
and
GOVERNORATE OF ALEXANDRIA
Dated                             , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 988 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATMN (hereinafter called the
Association) and the GOVERNORATE OF CAIRO and the GOVERNORATE OF
ALEXANDRIA (hereinafter called the Governorates).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that the Governorates agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by financing agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Governorates, a part of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to the Governorates on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Governorates, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and
Other Covenants
Section 2.01. The Governorates shall carry out Parts B, C and
D (2) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist the Governorates in the
evaluation of bids for Part B of the Project and in the super-
vision of the construction of the slaughterhouses provided
thereunder, the Governorates shall employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Governorates in the carrying
out of the studies included under Part C of the Project, the
Governorates shall employ, not later than September 30, 1980,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for Part
B of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Governorates undertake to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to them by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Governorates
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Governorates shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to them by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for Parts B, C and D (2) of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Governorates shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Parts B, C and D (2) of the Project, and any mate-
rial modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Governorates: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts B, C


﻿-3-
and D (2) of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to
be derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
Parts B, C and D (2) of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part B of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts B, C or
D (2) of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from them, the expenditures of such pro-
ceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Governorates and the Association, the Governorates -Ihall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail. a. the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion of Parts B, C and D (2) of the Project and the initial
operation of Part B of the Project, their cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by the
Governorates and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.
Section 2.06. Each Governorate shall duly perform all
its obligations under its respective financing agreement. Except
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Governorates shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
their respective financing agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Gove:norates shall exchange views with
the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress of
Parts B, C and D (2) of the Project, the performance of their
obligations under this Agreement and under their respective
financing agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) The Governorates shall promptly inform the Borrower and
the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Parts B, C and D (2) of the Pro-
ject, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the


﻿-4-
performance by the Governorates of their obligations under this
Agreement and under their respective financing agreement.
Section 2.08. The Governorates shall cause the slaughter-
houses provided under Part B of the Project at all times to be
adequately operated and maintained and shall cause all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be promptly made.
Section 2.09. In carrying out Part D (2) (b) of the Project,
the Governorates shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Borrower
and to the Asssociation, for its approval, not later than June 30,
1980, the proposed training program to be carried out thereunder;
(b) select, not later than September 30, 1980, appropriately
qualified candidates for said training program; and (c) employ the
experts referred to in Part D.2 (b) (ii) of the Project, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 2.10. The Governorates shall not later than twelve
months before the scheduled commencement of operations of the
slaughterhouses provided under Part B of the Project, employ
an appropriately qualified manager for each of said slaughter-
houses.
Section 2.11. The Governorates shall adjust gradually the
slaughtering fees in each of the slaughterhouses provided under
Part B of the Project to the extent required to provide each of
the Governorates in each fiscal year with revenues sufficient to
cover the operating and maintenance expenses of its slaughterhouse
and to meet interest on, and to amortize, its debt incurred for
the financing of said slaughterhouse.
Section 2.12. The Governorates shall: (i) maintain separate
accounts and financial statements adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices, the expenditures on account of Part B of the Project and
the operations of the slaughterhouses provided thereunder; and
(ii) maintain separate accounts reflecting expenditures on account
of Parts C and D (2) of the Project.
Section 2.13. The Governorates shall: (i) have the accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) referred to in Section 2.12
of this Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the


﻿-5-
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 2.14. The Governorates shall prepare, not later
than June 30, 1981, and furnish to the Borrower and to the Asso-
ciation for its approval the proposed organizational structure of
the slaughterhouses provided under Part B of the Project together
with an operating manual covering, inter alia, accounting proce-
dures, job descriptions and policies.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Governorates thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 26 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Governorates of this event.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Governorate of Cairo:
Governorate of Cairo
Midan E1-Goumhoria
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
MIDAN EL-GOUMHORIA
Cairo
For the Governorate of Alexandria:
Governorate of Alexandria
Tareek El-Horriah
Alexandria
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
TAREEK EL-HORRIAR
Alexandria


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of the Governorate of Cairo may be
taken or executed by the Governor of Cairo or such other person or
persons as the Governor of Cairo shall designate in writing, and
the Governorate of Cairo shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Governorate of Alexandria may be taken
or executed by the Governor of Alexandria or such other person or
persons as the Governor of Alexandria shall designate in writing,
and the Governorate of Alexandria shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCI TION
By     /
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
GOVERNORATE OF CAIRO
By,/
/   ,            Authorized Representative
GOVERNORATE OF JXA
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works required for Part B of the Project
shall be procured under two turnkey contracts, one for each of
the slaughterhouses included in Part B of the Project, to be
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   In addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guildelines, the Governorates shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
30 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Governorates shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Governorates of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Before bids are invited, each of the Governorates shall
furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the


﻿- 9 -
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall reauire the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
2.   After bids have been received and evaluated, each of the
Governorates shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Governorates and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
3.   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without
the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
4.   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
5.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Governorates shall
inform the Association of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associ-
ation, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Governorates and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR SECRETARY


