                                                    Document of
                                                 The World Bank




                                                                                       Report No: ICR0000442




                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                            (IBRD-38320 IDA-26720)




                                                         ON A

                                  LOAN IBRD-38320 & CREDIT IDA-26720

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 26.7 MILLION & SDR 35.7 MILLION
                                (TOTAL US$ 80.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                       TO THE

                                         ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                                      FOR AN

                                  IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                                    June 29, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective March 22, 2007)
                            Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound
                                  LE 1.00 = US$0.175
                                  US$ 1.00 = LE 5.70

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1 ­ June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCWUA   Branch Canal Water Users Association
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CD      Central Directorate
CDIAS   Central Department for Irrigation Advisory Services
CF      Continuous Flow
DO      Development Objective
EA      Environmental Assessment
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
fed     Feddan (equivalent to 0.42 hectar)
FY      Financial Year
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOE     Government of Egypt
GTZ     German Technical Cooperation
IAS     Irrigation Advisory Service
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ID      Irrigation Department
IDA     International Development Association
IIIMP   Integrated Irrigation Improvement and Management Project
IIP     Irrigation Improvement Project
IIPD    Irrigation Improvement Project Directorate (later changed to IIS)
IIS     Irrigation Improvement Sector (previously IIPD)
IP      Implementation Progress
IPM     Integrated Pest Management
IS      Irrigation Sector
ISR     Implementation Status Report
IWMD    Integrated Water Management District
IWRM    Integrated Water Resource Management
KfW     German Aid Agency
LE      Egyptian Pound
LIB     Limited International Bidding
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MALR    Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MED     Mechanical and Electrical Department
MIS     Management Information System
MWRI    Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV     Net Present Value

NWRC    National Water Research Centre
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
OFWM    On-Farm Water Management
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PMU     Project Management Unit
PVC     Polyvinylchloride
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SWERI   Soils, Water and Environmental Research Institute
SWM     Solid Waste Management
TA      Technical Assistance
TOR     Terms of Reference
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WB      Water Board / World Bank
WBP     Water Boards Project
WQMU    Water Quality Management Unit
WSS     Water Supply and Sanitation
WUA     Water Users Association




                          Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                        Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi
                          Sector Manager: Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
                    Project Team Leader: Jose Simas
                       ICR Team Leader: Jose Simas

                                 ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                      IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                  CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
 Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 25
 Annex 2: Outputs by Component................................................................................. 26
 Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 36
 Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 46
 Annex 5: Beneficiary Surveys and Proposed WUAs Performance Indicators............ 48
 Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 53
 Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 54
 Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 64
 Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 65
 MAPS: IBRD 26197 and 33785

A. Basic Information

                                                                       EG Irrigation
Country:                Egypt                   Project Name:
                                                                       Improvement
                                                                       IBRD-38320,IDA-
Project ID:             P005173                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       26720
ICR Date:               06/29/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              MPWR
Original Total
                        USD 80.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 71.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Irrigation Improvement Sector
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/05/1993    Effectiveness:         08/02/1996          08/02/1996
Appraisal:             09/25/1994    Restructuring(s):                          06/30/2006
Approval:              12/22/1994    Mid-term Review:                           05/03/2000
                                     Closing:               12/31/2002          12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                     Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              8                  8
Irrigation and drainage                                       92                92


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                      Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary          Primary
Water resource management                                    Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                caio koch-weiser
Country Director:         Emmanuel Mbi                    Sven Burmester
Sector Manager:           Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan    Prem C. Garg
Project Team Leader:      Jose Simas                      Aizad Nawaz Khan
ICR Team Leader:          Jose Simas
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Morelli
                          Michael J. Sandoz



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural production and
farmers income by improving the irrigation infrastructure, facilitating a more equitable
distribution of water and improving on-farm irrigation management; (b) improve the
long-term sustainability through takeover of responsibility for operation and maintenance
(O&M) of the tertiary level irrigation system by the farmers and their sharing in the costs


                                            ii

for tertiary level investments; and (c) strengthen the institutional planning and
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) in
the irrigation subsector.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increased agricultural production and farmers' income. Measured by the value of
                their farming net revenues (and value of farm land as a proxy).
Value
quantitative or No baseline value            30%                               6-9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1996                     12/31/2002                        12/31/2006
Comments        Target still to be met because of slow adoption of CF. However, the selling and
(incl. %        rental values of land in improved areas grew by more than 30%, realizing the net
achievement)    present value of expected increased income derived from improvements.

Indicator 2 :   Farmers Organizations WUAs taking full responsibility for O&M of tertiary
                systems (Meskas) under sustainable basis on project improved area
                                              2650 WUAs                        2906 WUA's

Value           0 WUA'a                      (100%)                            (109%)

quantitative or 0 BCWUA's                    67 BCWUA's                        57 BCWUA's

Qualitative)    0 fed                        (100%)                            (85%)
                                             248,000 fed                       205,000 fed
                                             (100%)                            (82.7%)
Date achieved 06/30/1996                     12/31/2002                        12/31/2006
Comments        Users Associations (in 82.7%) of target area) took over the management of
(incl. %        tertiary level irrigation systems and are also improtant institutional platforms for
achievement)    exercising user's voice. 100% target to be attaine at IIP2 completion.

Indicator 3 :   Strengthen MWRI's capacity in the Irrigation subsector. Measured by the Cost
                Recovery of O&M coss and of improvement costs at Tertiary level.
                                              O&M cost
                O&M cost recovery            recovery                          O&M cost recovery
Value           Individually                 100% by WUA's                     100% by WUA's
quantitative or Investment Recovery          Investment                        Investment
Qualitative)    0%                           Recovery                          Recovery
                0%                           100% by land tax                  38% by land tax

Date achieved 06/30/1996                     12/31/2002                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Cost recovery started in 2004 with LE76,237, increasing to LE 1.5 millionby end

achievement)    2005, LE3.2 million by end 2006, and LE6.4million by April 2007.




                                                 iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target      Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                    Achieved at
                                             approval          Revised    Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Structures completed at Delivery and Tertiary System
Value
(quantitative  zero                     2,939 WUAs
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1996                12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                          IP            Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     03/01/1995          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     06/05/1995          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     07/26/1995          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  4     02/05/1996          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  5     05/31/1996          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  6     08/19/1996          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  7     09/03/1996          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  8     04/01/1997          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  1.00
  9     10/30/1997          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  1.95
  10    03/25/1998          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  2.32
  11    11/13/1998          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 3.34
  12    06/10/1999          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 4.44
  13    12/27/1999          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  9.40
  14    06/13/2000          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                11.39
  15    12/08/2000          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                16.89
  16    06/20/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                20.78
  17    12/12/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                23.65
  18    05/14/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                29.08
  19    07/24/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                33.72
  20    01/10/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                44.28
  21    03/11/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                46.52
  22    07/22/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                51.04
  23    02/27/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                56.67
  24    02/27/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                56.67
  25    10/12/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                60.43



                                             iv

  26  04/27/2005        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               63.83
  27  06/13/2005        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               63.83
  28  09/23/2005        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               66.19
  29  01/18/2006        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               67.24
  30  09/14/2006        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               70.90



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                     Key Changes Made
                             DO     IP     in USD
                                           millions
                                                      No major change was done.
                                                      Last year extension of closing

  06/30/2006        N         S     MS       69.02    date was to allow: (i)
                                                      implementation of the pilot W-
                                                      10 area; and (ii) to test
                                                      innovative improvements.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v

                     1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN1



1.1 Context at Appraisal

Agriculture constitutes an important sector within the Egyptian economy, employing about 23
percent of the labor force and accounting for around 14 percent of GDP and merchandise
exports. The agricultural land base is around 8 million feddan (3.3 million hectares). Holdings
average less than 1.9 fed (0.8 ha), one of the lowest in the world. The very productive land,
particularly in the Delta, is intensively cultivated, and given its agro-climatic conditions and
proximity to major markets, Egypt has the potential to attain significant growth in output and
income through technology transfer, provision of essential support services to farmers, and the
development of post harvest technology and marketing services. The most limiting resource for
Egyptian agriculture is irrigation waterA. Management of its water resources has always been a
central feature of the country's development strategy. From a fixed allocation of Nile river water
(55.5 billion m3 a year) Egypt needs to supply water to a rapidly growing population and to
newly reclaimed areas, which means that it has to urgently increase water use efficiency as well
as crop productivity in both new and existing irrigated areasB.

The Bank has been in dialogue with GOE on the issue of adoption of a financially sustainable
program for managing the irrigation and drainage network, and the IIP became the main
evolving instrument for both improvement of on-farm irrigation efficiency and the introduction
of cost sharing measures to improve the financial aspects of systems operation and maintenance
(O&M). It was estimated that the Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP) would enhance the
income of over 654,000 people. At appraisal the project was considered a Poverty-Targeted
Intervention (PTI), since 70 percent of project beneficiaries had landholdings of under 1.9 fed
(0.8 ha) in size and incomes under the poverty line and close to the ultra poverty line in Egypt.
Although employment generation was not specifically mentioned as a higher development
objective, the IIP was in line with the key features of the current reform program as it relates to
job creationC.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators


                     SAR PDOs                                              SAR Monitoring Indicators
(a) to increase agricultural production and farmers     Improve main and secondary canals, downstream control structures,
income by improving the irrigation infrastructure,      distribution control structures, re-use pumping stations. Improve
facilitating a more equitable distribution of water and tertiary systems (single-point lifting pumps, lined J section, PVC
improving on-farm irrigation management                 pipes, efficiency).
(b) to improve the long-term sustainability through     Formation of water user groups and associations, participation,
takeover of responsibility for O&M of the tertiary-     contribution for O&M, acceptability, collection rate/cost sharing of
level irrigation system by the farmers and their        investment, replacement of pumps, adoption of continuous flow.
sharing in the costs of tertiary-level investments
(c) to strengthen the institutional planning and        Operations of downstream control gates, telemetry system, and use
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Water        of canal storage; re-use of drainage effluent; irrigation advisory




1 Main text superscript references numbered A, B, C, etc., refer to endnotes included at the end
of the section.

                                                              1

Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) in the irrigation  service; monitoring and evaluation operations; environmental
subsector                                          aspects; on-farm demonstrations and training program.


The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and key monitoring indicators defined in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) are summarized in the table above. The project aimed at improvements
within three irrigation command areas serving a total net irrigable area of about 248,000 fed
(104,200 ha)D, and key project area, beneficiary and Water User Association (WUA) target
values included in the SAR were as in the Table below.

                            SAR Key Target Values (see Annex 2 for further details)
Subproject     Project Area (Fed.)         Farmers      Population       Mesqa WUAs          Branch Canal WUAs
Mahmoudia      131,000                     33,500       235,000          1,300               35
Manaifa        42,000                      25,800       206,000          520                 12
Wasat          75,000                      35,500       213,000          830                 20
Total          248,000                     94,800       654,000          2,650               67
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, December 1, 1994

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

None (the original project objectives remained unchanged during project implementation).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The direct project beneficiaries were identified in the SAR as being about 95,000 small farmers
and their families farming a net arable area of 248,000 fed (104,200 ha). The project was placed
in poverty category PTI as indicated at Section 1.1 above. It was estimated that the total of more
than 654,000 individual beneficiaries would (i) attain increased incomes resulting from being
provided timely and adequate amounts of irrigation water, (ii) avoid a loss in income levels from
what would otherwise be a deterioration of soil conditions from usage of drainage water for
irrigation, and (iii) save about 34 percent of the costs of pumping irrigation waterE. Also, the
improved efficiency of water use would allow for re-allocation elsewhere of saved water, with
benefits accruing to about 100,000 indirect beneficiaries. Health conditions in and around the
subproject areas would also be improved, due to reductions in exposure to bilharzia.

1.5 Original Components

The project components as presented and valued in the SAR (including contingency allowances)
were as given belowF. The total estimated project cost was US$ 182.3 millionG. Financing was to
be provided by IBRD (14.7 percent), IDA (29.2 percent), KfW (24.6 percent), the Netherlands
Directorate General for International Cooperation (NDGIC, 2 percent) and GOE (29.5 percent).

(a) Irrigation Systems Improvements. This component included (i) Improvement of Main and
Secondary Canal Delivery System (US$25.3 million, 13.9 percent of total cost), comprising
concrete lining and slope stabilization along about 70 km of main canals and 680 km of
secondary canals, replacement of deteriorated old structures including bridges and cross
regulators, installation of downstream control gates in secondary (branch and sub-branch) canals
and of a telemetry system for centralized remote control of main canal head and cross regulator
gates, and installation of pumps at selective locations for controlled reuse of drainage effluent;
and (ii) Improvement of Tertiary System (US$126.4 million, 69.3 percent), providing for single-
point lifting pumping stations at intakes to about 2,700 tertiary canals (mesqas) and construction



                                                        2

of about 1,000 km of lined and 1,500 km of piped raised mesqas with gated or Alfalfa valve
outlets at the heads of quaternary canals (marwas).

(b) Institutional Support (US$13.3 million, 7.3 percent). Support to be provided under this
component to MWRI and its implementing agency, the Irrigation Improvement Sector (IIS), was
for design and construction supervision and for M&E.

(c) Communication (US$3.6 million, 2 percent). A communication program to achieve general
public awareness of water resources scarcity and conservation issues was to be supported under
this component at the level of the ministry.

(d) Irrigation Advisory Service (US$10.3 million, 5.6 percent). This component was to
provide the IAS with technical support for the organization and strengthening of about 2,650
mesqa-level WUAs and 67 branch canal WUAs (BCWUAs) at the branch canal level, to train
WUA members in mesqa O&M, to foster links between BCWUAs and external support agencies,
and to assist in the conducting of a communication campaign for farmer awareness of project
benefits, issues and training programs.

(e) Environmental Assessment and Management (US$1.4 million, 0.8 percent).                     This
component covered strengthening of MWRI and IIS staff capacity for environmental assessment
and management, development of environmental assessment (EA) guidelines covering screening
and evaluation of irrigation development projects, and monitoring of water quality particularly in
relation to reused drainage effluent and soil water.

(f) On-Farm Irrigation Management Demonstration Program (US$2 million, 1.1 percent).
This program was to include provisions and demonstrations on about 50 selected farms of
improved irrigation application efficiency and irrigation practices, and of land leveling, selective
soil amendments and production inputs and equipment.

1.6 Revised Components

None (the original components were not revised).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Three important changes to the project as formulated in the SAR were (i) the withdrawal of
funding support from the NDGIC, (ii) an increase of 4 years in the project duration, and (iii) the
introduction in 2005 of the Wasat W-10 pilot area development to test and demonstrate improved
designsH. There was also a change in name and structure of the responsible ministry and
implementing agency. The client ministry, the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources,
became the MWRI, and the principal implementing agency, the Irrigation Improvement Projects
Directorate, was elevated from directorate to sector status within the MWRI and became the IIS.
The new names are used throughout this completion report.




                                               3

                2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

(a) Soundness of Background Analysis

The project was well aligned with both (i) the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
emphasized environmental conservation, sustainability and poverty alleviation through
improvement of irrigation infrastructure to enable productivity and income increases, and (ii) the
GOE's major priority of conserving water resources, discussed in Section 1.1 aboveI. Lessons
from previous Bank projects were built into the IIP designJ. Project design also drew on
experience from previous irrigation sector studies and pilot interventions, including the prior
USAID-supported irrigation improvement project . As part of IIP preparation, detailed
                                                      K

feasibility studies for irrigation system improvements, supported by a Japanese Policy for
Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant, were carried out between October 1994 and July
1995. Loan conditions were adequately complied with before effectiveness.

(b) Assessment of Project Design

Objectives. The three PDOs presented in Section 1.2 above are here assessed as follows:

(i) Objective 1. This first objective emphasized increasing agricultural production and farmer
incomes in areas where yields were substantially below national averages, exacerbating poverty
conditions in salt-affected drainage-water-dependent areas that were estimated to represent
between 60 to 70 percent of the total project area. In addition to reducing water distribution
inequities and improving on-farm water management, the proposed irrigation system
improvements were expected to result in overall water savings, thus helping towards realization
of the GOE's stated water resource management policy, which aims to effect water savings with
a view to development of new agricultural areas. The focus on improved water distribution
equity and irrigation management, and on increased agricultural production and net income
increases for farmers in the project area, was in line with the Bank's lending priorities and
strategies, and this on balance is considered to have been a correct and appropriate emphasisL.

(ii) Objective 2. The second project objective, to form water user organizations to achieve
investment cost-sharing and O&M of the tertiary-level irrigation systems by farmers, was
considered crucial for long-term sustainability of the projected system improvements. It is clear
in retrospect that this project design feature has been instrumental in achieving a degree of local
ownership that would not have been possible with a solely-Government institutional design for
system management. It is considered that this was a challenging but still realistic objective and
one that was again most appropriate.

(iii) Objective 3. The third objective focused on strengthening the institutional planning and
implementation capacity of the MWRI in the irrigation subsector. Though the need for this was
well-identified, meeting the objective would have been expected to face considerable
implementation challenges, given the generally (though not always) poor results of previous
similar efforts in the country.


                                                4

Components. In general the project components were considered to be adequate and conducive
to the attainment of the stated objectives. Some specific comments follow:

(i) Improvements of Main and Secondary Canal Delivery System. The project had envisaged
extensive application of control systems that were insufficiently developed under the pilot
project or untested in the local context. With hindsight, it is thought that a less prescriptive, more
flexible and progressive approach to this change would have worked better. Also, CF and
downstream control are separate concepts; application of the first of these was and remains a
high priority, but introduction of the second represents a further degree of sophistication that
arguably should not have been treated as immediately warrantedM.

(ii) Improvements of Tertiary System. This was the project's major component in terms of
planned size, cost and level-of-effort. The technical concepts were sound and appropriate, and
significant efficiency improvement, operating cost reduction and water distribution equity
benefits were expected and achieved. The investment of 70 percent of the project costs into this
component is considered to have been well justifiedN.

(iii) Irrigation Advisory Service (IAS). This component justifiably and successfully provided for
improvement and scaling-up of the prior pilot tertiary-level institutional development efforts
through the then recently established IAS. The primary focus given to the mesqa WUAs was
pragmatic, making use of the legal framework that had recently been put in place to enable the
formation of such organizations. Also of considerable importance for viability and sustainability
reasons was the provision for formation of BCWUAs, which were not covered by the existing
legal framework. Farmer participation in reviews and agreements relating to the selection of
technical options was planned and partially achievedO.

(iv) Institutional Support. Consultancy input provisions, both local and international, were not
enough to cover both the advisory and specialist support functions and the substantial routine
liaison and report backstopping tasks that could or would not be undertaken by IIS staffP.

Organization. The organizational design for project implementation was straightforward and
generally adequate.      IIS assumed implementation responsibilities, operated from a central
headquarters and two field offices, and established a new unit for M&EQ.

Risks. The major risks identified at appraisal were (i) limited implementation capacity of
domestic contractors which could reduce the area improved or could result in delay, and (ii)
delay in design of improvement works and procurement processing. These risks were supposed
to be minimized by (i) prequalification of contractors and the provision of TA and training of
contractors and IIS staff, and (ii) advance actions on procurement and design work using PHRD
grants funds. In retrospect it is clear that both risks were underestimated, since in spite of the
mitigating measures adopted they both became major causes of delays. Risk assessment did not
take into consideration delays in approval of credit agreement by the parliament; thus leading to
initial delays in project effectiveness.




                                               5

2.2 Implementation

The implementation improved substantially with project progress. Positive factors that lead to
improved implementation included (i) the support provided by the MWRI minister and the
dedication of implementing agency staff, (ii) a good performance by the project implementation
consultants in general and their long-term resident manager in particular, (iii) some good
contractor performances, generally by the smaller contractors, and (iv) eventual acceptance of
the project and recognition of its benefits by a large proportion of the region's farmers and
communities both within and outside of the project area. The above indicated major risks
identified at appraisal became important factors in delaying project implementation and reducing
net benefits. Other factors generating similar negative impacts included (i) the increased costs of
system improvements, (ii) insufficient intra- and inter-institutional coordination between
implementing agencies, and (iii) underestimation of the difficulties to be encountered in the
adoption of CF operations. The withdrawal of Dutch funds from the financing package was
partially counteracted by substitute funding from other sources.

Project Duration and Delays. Factors fully or mostly within the control of the GOE and of the
MWRI/IIS that resulted in implementation delays included (i) the GOE's long project approval
and People's Assembly ratification process (2 years), (ii) a slow build-up in preparation of
designs and tender documents, which is attributed in part to uncertainty due to delay in
ratification by People's Assembly, (iii) slow tendering of construction contracts, and (iv) slow
progress of contracts execution. Board approval occurred in December 1994, but delays in credit
agreement approval by the cabinet and ratification by the People's Assembly only allowed
effectiveness to occur in November 1996. While there were few designs ready for construction
contracts bidding at the start of the project, delay in making necessary decisions lead to initial
delays in tendering. Delay in mobilizing the project international consultant has been another
cause for delays. The above factors have resulted in late start of disbursements. Preparation of
procurement packages ahead of project effectiveness was possible for limited number of
packages only because most of the works to be implemented by the project required
consultations with WUA's, which were to be formed by the project. However, finalization of
these packages and tendering never took place due to lack of decision making by the
implementing agency. The progress of planning and design was impeded sometimes by staffing
and logistical constraints, and by improper attention to mapping. Procurement processes, which
followed GOE general procedures, were sometimes slow and constrictive. Contracts execution
progress is discussed separately below. An implementation delay factor largely outside of GOE
or MWRI control was farmers' initial skeptical resistance to the proposed improvementsR. The
project was extended twice to allow mainly for re bidding of delayed contracts and completion of
the Wasat W-10 pilot. The project was eventually closed on December 31, 2006S, .   T



Performance of Contractors. Prequalification of firms for works contracts was used for most of
the project period. The exception was the period 1997-1999, during which open bidding
procedures were used. Unsatisfactory outcomes of the open bidding process led to a reversion to
prequalification procedures. After generally promising starts, the effects of somewhat low
bidding, the use (and misuse) of small subcontractors, and inappropriate management, all of
which were then reportedly typical features of the contracting sector in Egypt, became a
constraint on progress and performance by the major (mostly large public sector enterprise)
contractors. With the devaluation of the local currency from 2001 to 2003 the situation greatly
worsened. Later there was a considerable improvement in performance on works contracts let to

                                               6

small contractorsU. Overall these circumstances impacted greatly on project duration and had
consequent negative effects on costs and benefits. During the latter stage of the project, the
implementing agency excluded poorly performing works contractors from bidding.

Cost Escalation.      Mesqa systems over-design, and little cost-effectiveness in design and
construction solutions in general, led to major cost escalations from the startV. These design
practices were in line with previous projects. Further substantial cost escalations in more recent
years were due to (i) backfilling of old mesqas with large volumes of imported material, (ii)
responsiveness to WUAs requests resulted occasionally in cost increases that was aggravated in
part by non clarity of cost element in the negotiations process, (iii) the nature of re-tendered
mesqa completion contracts, and (iv) high general inflation levels. The higher recent costs gave
grounds for concern by both the financing agencies, in relation to the economic feasibility of the
investments, and by farmers, in relation to their ability and/or willingness to make payments for
capital cost recovery. As a result of these concerns, new improvement concepts and designs were
implemented in the W-10 pilot area. These led to significant cost reductions, and, as the pilot
area development process advances, more such cost reductions are expected.

Agency Coordination. Inadequate intra- and inter-agency coordination and interaction resulted
in a general isolation of project implementers from operation/extension/support agencies and
users. There was a fragmented and compartmentalized MWRI setup for implementation with
little provision for synergic activities. IIS planners, designers and supervisors had little technical
contact and interchange with the system operators and service providers of IS, CD-IAS and
MALR, with the farmers, and even with the IIP's own IAS. There was some improvement in
this towards the end of the projectW.

Introduction of Continuous Flow Operations. The adoption of CF at peak time demands
(May/June) is increasing slowly by slowly and will take more time than anticipated at appraisal.
The ex-post analysis of slow adoption of CF in the improved areas shows that it is a result of
number different factors: (i) lack of good coordination and better cooperation among the sectors
in charge for design/implementation (IIS) and operation and maintenance (IS); (ii) substantial
increase of rice cultivation during summer (peak demand time) beyond the capacity of the branch
canals; (iii) the prevailing flow restrictions on the main feeder canals due to obsolescence and
disrepair; (iv) lack of proper sequencing of implementation of CF of fully completed command
area and their relevant feeder canals and branch canals from upstream to downstream of the main
systems; and (v) lack of proper training, incentives, and motivation of IS operational staff. The
establishment of CF regime operations will require a more complex process than was originally
appreciated, and more time and greater effort will be needed to achieve thisX. The current
institutional setup, resources, directives and procedures for systems operation by branch canal
rotations will require substantial adjustments to achieve a system-wide conversion to CF
operationsY. Another requirement, to prevent current and expected future over-demand by
farmers and consequent overall water shortage, will be application and observance of mandated
or design limits on rice cultivationZ.

W-10 Pilot Area. The pilot area development was a new initiative, commenced in 2005 to test
and demonstrate improved designs. To date it has served to clearly demonstrate the cost
effectiveness and benefits of a number of both physical and procedural improvements, including
(i) the use of satellite imagery for planning and design, (ii) appropriate reduced or modified
pump, pumping station, pipeline and control valve capacities and specifications, and

                                                 7

electrification of pumping stations, for improved mesqa systems, and (iii) the introduction of
marwa improvements, primarily pipeline-based, through cooperation between ministries and
with water usersAA.

Implementation Consultant. Consulting services for implementation were funded by KfW, and
a main consultant joint venture led by an international consulting firm was selected and engaged.
Their performance was considered to have been satisfactory in all engineering matters and
moderately satisfactory on M&E aspects. The long-term and high-level dedication and effort
given to the project by the consultants' resident manager merits special mention.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E program was designed to measure a number of indicators directly related to the PDO
and outputs of the project. There was no effective baseline study, and use of only indirect data to
measure employment generation or poverty alleviation effects was foreseenBB. The M&E design,
which incorporated a large number of indicators, was too complex and ambitious for the agency
involved. In spite of significant TA support efforts, the M&E unit proved to be too weak to
manage the overall M&E program and to extract relevant findings. With the exception of two
remote sensing studies that were carried out in 2000 and 2006, data collection followed
conventional approaches such as sample surveys using questionnaires, while limited or
insufficient use was made of methods such as focus groups, case studies, participatory rural
assessment, etc. Delays and shortcomings in both M&E designs and system improvements have
led to the M&E activities carried out so far being inconclusive and insufficient to enable a proper
assessment of the IIP. In any case however, a full impact assessment of the IIP will not be
possible until the CF regime is fully operational and its effects can be determined. During the
latter stage of the project, the KfW review mission reported that IIS-M&E unit has started to play
its expected roles.

Construction Quality. Quality of construction was generally acceptable, at a moderately
satisfactory level, for the secondary system improvements (branch canals, bridges, cross
regulators, distributors and tail end escapes). For the mesqa (tertiary) system improvements,
which represent 70% of the project investment, construction quality was considered satisfactory.
In the improved mesqa systems, the pump house finishing and hydraulic fittings were below
standard in most of the cases, and the big alfalfa pipeline outlet valves showed short life spans,
below the expected 15 years at less than ten years, due to both failures and vandalism. Pump sets,
fittings and alfalfa valves will soon need to be replacedCC.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Management

The main focus of the environmental management initiatives were (i) setup and staffing of an
Environmental Unit (EU), (ii) development and implementation of site specific Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs), (iii) environmental screening for any new drainage water reuse
pumping stations, (iv) environmental training for senior management staff, (v) procurement of
water quality monitoring equipment, (vi) M&E of canal and drain water quality and monitoring
of soil quality, (vii) review of water quality guidelines, and (viii) gender activities. The EU was
established and carried out the above mentioned activities with support from the project


                                                8

implementation consultant. EMP development and implementation activities were undertaken to
address solid waste and sanitation problems in each of two selected pilot command areas.
Environmental training, water and soil quality monitoring, and gender activities were all
undertaken to some extent over the course of the IIP. Follow-up environmental management
activities are planned and expected to take place under the new IIIMP. Supplementary details are
provided in Annex 2. The IIP is seen to have had substantial positive environmental and social
impacts, including land and water quantity and quality savings and improvements, reduced
exposure to water-borne health hazards (e.g. bilharzia), reductions in carbon emissions (diesel
use), improved community management organizations (WUAs), greater equity in access to water
resources, and increased net incomes. Potentially negative environmental impacts could occur
outside of the project area (e.g. from additional agricultural chemicals), in areas where new
agricultural developments could be made possible by project-generated water savings. The credit
agreement contained a covenant pertaining to bilharzia (shistosomiasis) snails, and this was
complied with.

Financial Management

The IDA credit of XDR 35.7 million was fully disbursed with only XDR 500.34 remaining. The
IBRD disbursements amounted to 85% of the signed amount leaving an undisbursed balance of
US$ 3.82 million. Occasional deductions were applied by the Bank to withdrawal applications
for the amounts of ineligible expenditures claimed as part of the applications, particularly in
2002 and 2003. The project recording and reporting were handled by the IIS, who maintained
complete project records and issued periodic reports for the project financial position. More
detailed breakdowns at the component and subcomponent level could have helped better track
the project's actual performance against planned activities. The project audits were carried out by
the Central Auditing Organization and reports have shown some shortcomings with regard to
disclosures. The audit reports were generally submitted on time with few exceptions.

Procurement

Procurement of works, goods and services was in general effected satisfactorily by the IIS. In its
capacity as project management unit, the IIS was able to nominate and train suitable procurement
staff and to develop a procurement section that complied with Bank standards. Concerning the
procurement of implementation contracts, the principal features of note during the course of the
project had to do with (i) pre-or post-qualification of works contractors, (ii) the failure of large
works contractors, and (iii) cancellations and re-tendering of works contracts. Generally,
prequalification processes were used. Open bidding processes were carried out in one early
period, but they gave poor outcomes and were not used again. Later, after all major works
contracts had been let, mostly to large public enterprise contractors, the project began to suffer
from non-performance and failure of the larger contractors. The subsequent process of contracts
cancellation, re-packaging and re-tendering seems to have been pursued with some effort by
MWRI/IIS but hindered by other separate GOE considerations. At the end of the project some
such contract issues remained to be resolved by the MWRI as a step towards arranging for
completion of outstanding works. For the future, limiting the use of complicated ICB procedures
for the simple types of works being executed, and more frequent pre-qualification processes
and/or open bidding procedures with well-considered post-qualification processes, together with
improved price adjustment, bid evaluation, construction supervision and capacity building
measures and arrangements, would seem to be called for. The procurement processes followed

                                              9

general GoE procedures were time consuming on occasions and focused on occasions on
procedures rather than on results. Supplementary details are provided in Annex 2.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

The IIP project has been moving smoothly into the operational phase, but with a slower than
expected changeover of completed canals from rotational flow to CF operations. The IIP
transition from implementation to operation overlaps with the on-going W-10 pilot area
improvement worksDD and the current Integrated Irrigation Improvement and Management
Project (IIIMP)EE. WUAs are dealing with O&M of the tertiary system and BCWUAs are
beginning to be involved in the management of some branch canal systemsFF. Farmers are now
overwhelmingly positive about the improvements, and the approved cost recovery scheme - in
line with the IIP's original plan - is already being enforced and working smoothly. The
changeover to CF operations, although more problematic than expected, is the subject of on-
going MWRI efforts to overcome operational constraints. Also, under IIIMP, an approach to
implementation and completion is being developed that will follow an upstream-to-downstream
full sub-command area sequential development process, since this is perceived as being a main
pre-requisite for introduction of CF operationsGG.


3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the IIP objectives and design in relation to GOE and Bank policies and
strategies at the time of project appraisal was discussed in Section 2.1 above. Over the course of
the project development priorities in Egypt essentially remained the same, and so the relevance
of IIP continues to be very high. IIP implementation aspects have also been discussed above.
The institutional situation in Egypt has not normally been conducive to rapid and efficient
implementation of projects in the agriculture and water sectors, or in various other sectors for
that matter. Recent indications of improvements in this area, including late IIP and early IIP2
and IIIMP implementation performance, have been encouraging. Certainly the IIP
implementation experience has provided relevant and important lessons to help expedite
continuing and future similar development efforts.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project was ambitious in its design and had challenging targets.          At project end the
IBRD/IDA portion could be considered as more than 95% complete in terms of infrastructure
and socio-institutional development targets; remaining items are being completed by GOE with
local funding. The outstanding KfW portion, representing almost 20 percent of the project area,
is being completed under the KfW-funded IIP2 supplementary operation. At the time of this
completion report, agricultural output had not yet shown significant increases, due to delays in
the adoption of CF operations, but farmers' incomes had already significantly improved, due
primarily to reductions in irrigation costs of around 40%, and there had been a late positive shift
in some agency officials' attitudes towards a general recognition of the benefits relating to CF
operations. The IIP's water user organizational and managerial sustainability and ownership
objective is considered to have been met, with WUAs successfully operating and maintaining
their mesqa systems, BCWUAs preparing to co-manage CF in branch canals, and the mesqa


                                               10

system investment cost recovery mechanism being widely accepted by farmers and increasingly
applied through the land tax collection system (see Borrower's Report, Annex 7, page 6).
Regarding the MWRI capacity strengthening objective, even though institutional capacity is still
limited, MWRI has been gradually undertaking a re-engineering of sector policy and internal
institutions to enhance its own capacity and stakeholders involvement in planning, implementing
and managing the water systems. The IIP's clearest benefits so far derive from irrigation
pumping cost savings and water distribution equity improvements, resulting from the overall
physical system improvements, the tertiary system investment co-financing with users, and the
strengthening of farmer organization and cooperation through the newly created WUAsHH. The
overall impact of the project is delayed by the difficulties of application of CF operationsII. In
canals where CF is being applied - even though often only partially and intermittently - all
parties, including farmers, MWRI staff and MALR agricultural extension staff, are positive
about the experience. In these cases, most of the expected benefits of CF have already been
realised, even though they cannot as yet be properly quantifiedJJ. The main reason to rate the DO
outcome as moderately satisfactory instead of satisfactory is related to the ERR analysis that
came to 15.0% instead of the 25.2% as anticipated at appraisal. This candid result of ERR is
linked to the agriculture production and productivity data made available by the implementing
sector and presented to the ICR team at the mission time, which was obtained from the Field
Survey dated 2005. The evolution of the productivity is likely to increase over the next two to
three years as the unfinished parts of the project, mostly financed under the KfW IIP-2, is
completed and CF application expands.

3.3 Efficiency

                                                   Economic Analysis
                    Time of the Analysis                      ERR (%)    NPV (in US$ million)
                Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)                     25.2            203.5
      Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR)         15.0            165.2


The ICR estimation of the expected ERR considering what has actually been achieved is 15
percent, and the corresponding NPV at 12 percent discount rate is US$165.2 million. Even
though these results are positive, they are significantly lower than the ERR of 25.2 percent
estimated at appraisal, and are more in line with the Mid-Term Review (MTR) assessment of
16.4 percent. The underlying assumptions for estimating SAR, MTR and ICR costs and benefits
are similar and are presented in Annex 3. The reasons for the reduced expected impact are (i) the
still limited application of CF in the distribution system, resulting in persistent lack of equity in
water availability and delayed yield increases in canal tail-end areas (two thirds of the project
area), (ii) low on-farm adoption of improved crop and water management technologies, (iii)
unimproved areas not showing the foreseen reduced yields from continued use of low quality
drainage water for irrigation to compensate for the shortage of fresh water in downstream
reaches of canals, (iv) the increased costs of improvements (see Section 2.2), and (v) an 18
percent reduction in the projected improvement area (205,000 fed improved out of 248,000 fed
projected). Compensating positive factors are (i) higher than foreseen irrigation cost reductions,
due to higher economic prices for saved diesel fuel, and (ii) higher prices for most of the
agricultural products, resulting from significant price increases over the last two years. It is noted
that ICR efficiency estimations are considered conservative, since they are based on farmers'
surveys carried out until mid 2005, at which time CF operations were impacting only 9% of the
sampled farmers. It is expected that, as the extent of CF operations increases, yields will also
increase, and hence the ERR should likewise improve.


                                                        11

The project is not expected to have fiscal benefits. Major facilities such as dams, barrages,
levees, pumping stations, main canals and drains continue to be funded and maintained through
the GOE budget, and farmers have also traditionally maintained their mesqas. The new tertiary
system cost recovery scheme being implemented only recovers the investment costs of improved
mesqas; farmers, now through their WUAs, continue to be responsible for.mesqa system O&M
costs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Ratings by component are shown in the following table. The weighted scoring outcome for the
overall project would be closer to a rating of satisfactory, but the ICR team considered that the
delays in implementation and in the adoption of the CF regime for operations, together with the
unbalanced emphasis given to the on-farm component, which has compounded the delay in
achieving expected agricultural productivity increases, should warrant an overall rating of
marginally satisfactory. Component-by-component rating details are provided in Annex 2.


                                       Project Outcome Ratings by Component
                  Components                          Project Costs             Project        Weight  Contribution
                                                        (SAR)                Outcome 1/      over Base  to PDO
                                                       US$ million       Rating       Value     %        Value
(a) 1. Improvement of main & secondary canals             25.3             MS           4      13.9      0.556
   2. Improvement of tertiary system                     126.4              S           5      69.3      3.465
(b) Institutional Support                                 13.3             MU           3      7.3       0.219
(c) Communications                                        3.6              MS           4      2.0       0.080
(d) Irrigation Advisory Services                          10.3             MS           4      5.6       0.224
(e) Environmental Assessment & Management                 1.4              MS           4      0.8       0.032
(f) On-Farm Irrigation and Demonstration                  2.0              MU           3      1.1       0.033
    Physical and Price Contingencies                      42.7                                   -          -
Total Project                                            182.3             MS                  100.0     4.609
1/ Highly Satisfactory (HS) = 6; Satisfactory (S) = 5; Marginally Satisfactory (MS) = 4;
Marginally Unsatisfactory (MU) = 3; Unsatisfactory (U) = 2; and Highly Unsatisfactory (HU) = 1.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project has demonstrated its potential for enhancing agricultural productivity and farmer
incomes, and hence for alleviating poverty, through the improving of the physical and
operational status and efficiency of irrigation systems. With the further expected adoption of CF
operations, the equity disparities affecting small tail-end farmers will continue to reduce. As the
IIIMP and other future projects expand the IIP-validated improvements, these benefits will
likewise extend to large portions of the overall irrigated area in Egypt where poverty is
concentrated. Furthermore, the resulting expected water savings should allow for some
significant re-allocations of the country's fixed share of Nile river water to help meet the
increased demands of the growing population, and to develop new irrigation areas where mostly
high value cropping would occur, generating jobs and income opportunities and hence
contributing to social development. Increased rental and land values stemming from the
improvements are a clear indicator of real IIP-generated assets being transferred to beneficiaries

                                                             12

that are mostly poor. With regard to gender aspects, the IIP's primary contribution has been
facilitation of social and environmental improvement through its support for formation and
organization of water user organizations. These have both male and female members, and the
organizations serve as vehicles for improving the participatory identification and resolution of a
broad range of community issues in the areas of water quality and availability, and related health
and sanitation, extending also to education and capacity building both in these areas and in
organizational and financial management and administration.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Mesqa WUAs are generally seen to be functioning well, including the collection and use of fees
for mesqa O&M and the annual payments of capital cost recovery installments, as per the
amendment of the Irrigation Law of 1984 introduced before appraisal. Also, BCWUAs are
established to oversee and integrate O&M of the branch canals and drainage networks, even
though they will be unable to properly assume these responsibilities until a corresponding legal
framework is put in place. These achievements represent a major accomplishment for MWRI,
since institutional reforms of this nature and scale had never before been attempted and carried
out in Egypt. Conversely, there were shortfalls in terms of participation by WUAs and system
operating agencies in the planning and design of system improvements, and in their subsequent
execution, transfer and operational start-up. Also, although WUA establishment objectives were
well met by the IIS-IAS, it was not apparent that adequate provisions had been made for
continuing suitable post-implementation technical and administrative support for themKK. Finally,
the IIS has not, to the extent that might have been expected or wished for, developed its capacity
and ability to efficiently, transparently and cost-effectively plan, design, contract, supervise and
transfer irrigation sector developments in accordance with basic internationally-accepted
standardsLL.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The originally unforeseen W-10 pilot area development was commenced under the IIP and is
continuing under the IIIMP. It has been successful in implementing and validating IIP design
modifications and innovations, leading to further water use efficiency gains and reductions in
both investment and recurrent costs. Systems electrification is also generating substantial
environmental benefits through the near elimination of carbon emissions from numerous old
small diesel pumps.


3.6 Summary of Findings of the M&E Farmer Surveys

M&E surveys began in 2002 and continued until mid 2005. Main findings showed that the IIP
provided (i) significant reductions in irrigation costs including mesqa O&M costs and irrigation
labor time requirements, (ii) some improvements in the equity of water distribution between
mesqa heads and tails, (iii) prevention of tail-end water losses from low-level mesqas to drains,
and (iv) enhanced convenience for irrigation. The main reported perceived problems with
improved mesqas were (i) some difficulties with pumps maintenance including technical
expertise and availability of spare parts, and (ii) insufficient pump discharge capacities. Water
shortages and short water availability periods were still common problems facing farmers in both
unimproved and improved areas, attributable to delays in introduction of CF operations, but


                                               13

these problems seemed to be less severe in the improved areas. There was also a general
downward trend in the use of low-quality drainage water in tail-end areasMM.

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome relates primarily to the not yet fully achieved effective
application of CF regime operations to branch canals, which is needed to permit the realization
of expected benefits. In relation to sustainability of improved tertiary systems, adequate O&M
seems to be fully assured, given the achieved operating cost reductions, farmer commitments to
investment costs recovery, and the strengthened institutional arrangements provided by the new
legally constituted and empowered WUAs. There may be some small risk to WUAs
sustainability from the as-yet-inadequate provisions for post-implementation technical and
administrative support.


5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank contributed strongly to the design of an improved and evolved project for irrigation
improvements, building on previous initiatives as indicated in Section 2.1(a). At loan approval,
the state of project preparation was not as required (OMS 2.28NN), since there were no detailed
designs prepared. This is mainly due to the fact that final designs of most of the works to be
implemented under the project require consultations with the WUA's that were to be formed by
the project after effectiveness; however, some categories of works and goods packages could
have been prepared ahead of project effectiveness. This was not achieved because of lack of
decision making on the side of the implementing sector. Also, the procurement capacity was
under-estimated, and IIP technical provisions at entry proved to be insufficient to overcome
some identified previous project shortcomings. Significant over sizing of pumps and other
components, and resulting escalation of costs of the improvements, could perhaps have been
avoided if the MWRI staff resistance to adoption of CF, together with other conceptual, technical
and institutional shortcomings, had been better identified, assessed and addressed.

(b) Quality of SupervisionOO
Rating: Satisfactory

During implementation the Bank was proactive and flexible in overcoming the various
implementation problems, and diverse actions were suggested and agreed upon with the
supervision missions to accelerate implementation and enhance project performancePP. Having
implementation follow up by staff, stationed in the resident mission has proven to be effective.
Bank pressure to overcome design problems, over sizing of works and equipment, and delays in
application of CF operations, or to find solutions to implementation and/or cost escalation
problems are clearly registered in the missions' aide memoirs. Bank missions in the last years of
implementation were most effective in introducing and piloting several design innovations.


                                              14

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The government was effective in introducing investment cost sharing practices to improve
sustainability of irrigation improvements, thus applying a lesson learned from the prior USAID
project evaluation. The minister of MWRI himself was always highly interested in the project,
supported its objectives and facilitated its implementation, and this continued for the later W-10
pilot area and IIIMP developments. The implementing agency managed to move forward with
large scale implementation of this complex project even though there was number of adverse
conditions; such as initial resistance by farmers, devaluation of local currency and institutional
fragmentation. There was remarked improvement in the implementing agency performance
during the later stage of project implementation. The government was less effective in resolving
three further lessons learned from the prior evaluation, relating to (i) shortage of staff to
accomplish project goals, (ii) lack of coordination between farmers, IAS and agricultural
extension staff for improvement of water conservation and crop yields, and (iii) endemic
construction delays due to late starts and lack of experience of contractors. GOE/MOIC
resistance to engagement of consultancy support under credit or loan provisions resulted in
insufficient project TA and supportQQ. Also, Budget allocations to the project were sometimes
deficient, and IIS management appointments were subject to disruptive rotations.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The MWRI through its implementing agencies managed to successfully improve the physical
distribution system, secure sustainability and ownership through the new mesqa WUAs and
BCWUAs, and implement a capital cost recovery mechanism linked to the land tax and widely
accepted by the farmers. There has also been a noted positive attitude shift towards a general
recognition of the benefits of CF operations, and activities are ongoing aimed at enhancing the
integrated involvement of all stakeholders in water system developments. Less positive have
been deficiencies in effective implementation and coordination management by IIS, which led to
unnecessary disruptions, delays and outcome shortfallsRR. Construction supervision, although
made harder by poor contractor performances, was generally satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


6. LESSONS LEARNED

The present completion report was being prepared during the period of initial implementation of
the IIIMP, which provides an opportunity to incorporate IIP lessons learned, particularly in
relation to changing from rotational to continuous flow operations. The identified IIP lessons
learned are as follows:


                                               15

(i) Avoiding Initial Delays Arrangements with GoE should be made to avoid initial delays due to
delay of approval by the parliament. Procurements should be packaged and be prepared so that
the procurement process should be ready to start at effectiveness. In case of works that require
consultations of farmers, the process of forming WUA's should start ahead of project
effectiveness if possible.

(ii) Taking to Scale of Piloted Innovations and Adoption of Continuous Flow Operation. Piloted
innovations that are not fully proven should probably be taken to scale through further
progressive piloting; main and branch canal physical and operational measures for
implementation of CF regimes should preferably be defined and established in advance of mesqa
improvement programs, perhaps best through a separate TA exercise directly with and for the
responsible system operating agencies; and a full main canal command area approach to
integrated development of irrigation system physical and operational improvements should be
adopted, with a strict upstream-to-downstream sequencing, packaging, execution and completion
of implementation of improvement works and institutional organizations and arrangements, by
fully consolidated sub-command areas served directly from main canal outlets;

(iii) Achieving Cost Effectiveness and Controlling Costs Escalation. Delivery system
improvements should be effected in advance of mesqa system improvements, to reduce
stakeholder pressures and perceived needs for oversized system components; there should be
greater and more effective design intervention, technology transfer and overview by experienced
international experts, to ensure technical suitability and cost effectiveness of works designs;
greater use should be made of cost-effective prefabricated elements for typical structures
required in large quantities; there should be explorations and negotiations with local suppliers
during the design process, with regard to future provision of desired but currently unavailable
materials and equipment; and there should be an initial participatory planning and preliminary
design process to develop technical options and their corresponding costs and benefits, followed
by adequate presentation to, discussion with, and consent-securing from, system user
organizations and operating agencies, prior to finalizing intervention designs;

(iv) Improving Procurement Processes, Contractors Performance and Reducing Implementation
Delays. The use of ICB procedures for works types and sizes implemented under this project are
not adequate. Capacity building of procurement staff is essential and frequent procurement
training need to be conducted at all levels involved in the different stages of the procurement
processes. Future project works should not be entrusted to the generally larger contractors that
have previously performed poorly; some smaller contractors have generally developed their
experience and performance to the point where they can now deliver satisfactory contract
outcomes; contract packages should if possible be small enough for incipient private civil works
contractors to manage comfortably; consideration should again be given to open bidding of the
improvement contracts, with suitable post-qualification of contractors, to further develop smaller
contractors' capacity and accelerate construction progress; and improved construction
management and supervision arrangements, for better quality control and reduced disruptions
and delays, should be made.

(v) Developing Sustainable O&M Organizations and Arrangements. There should be early
presentation, discussion and agreement with WUAs and system operating agencies on
development plans and preliminary designs; establishment of WUAs and O&M training should

                                             16

be effected in parallel and perhaps jointly with similar institutional development and capacity
building for system operating agencies; greater emphasis should be given to proper and relevant
O&M training for irrigation and drainage system water users; and firm and suitable arrangements
should be put in place and activated for continuing technical and administrative support to the
WUAs, by CD-IAS and possibly in coordination with a suitable unit within MALR's extension
department;

(vi) Ensuring Satisfactory Institutional Priorities, Processes and Coordination. Implementation
consultancy quality assurance and support provisions should be increased to better compensate
for implementation agency capacity shortfalls; there should be more effective, efficient and rapid
processes and procedures for procurement and management of contracts; and there should be
more rigorous review and approval processes implemented for specific institutional, O&M,
water management, agricultural and training programs; and


(vii) Ensuring Integrated and Complete Irrigation System Improvements. Irrigation system
improvement packages should include for and integrally address deficiencies in main and branch
canals, mesqa and marwa systems, and on-farm systemsSS. Limiting improvement packages to
mesqa systems without properly attending to provisions for CF operations in the delivery system
will limit the corresponding benefits. Similarly, marwa and on-farm improvement packages
without needed higher system level interventions will also fail to yield desirable benefits.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's report (included at Annex 7) considers that the objectives of the project were
appropriate, reasonable and in line with the government objectivesTT. Implementing Egypt's
policy on cost sharing arrangements, establishing Water Boards, and forming WUAs for mesqa
O&M, was considered to be a major step towards irrigation subsector institutional reform, which
will serve to help decentralization, free the MWRI from some burdens, and change its role from
operational to strategic interventions and supervision. The application of the cost recovery
concept ensures sustainability of the irrigation improvement program as the funds recovered
would be used in extending improvement works to other irrigated areas. The Borrower considers
that the IIS, the IS and the IAS staff, as well as the MALR, have done their best towards letting
the IIP achieve its goals and the best possible results. However, it was recognized that the IIP
was ambitious, complicated and multi-dimensional. During its preparation it was hard to foresee
the constraints and implications of some of the proposed interventions. The delays in the
improvement works and in the measures aimed at the introduction of CF operation are seen as
being outside the control of the implementing agencyUU. It was difficult to assess the impact of
the IIP on goals such as water savings since it will take some time to complete application of CF
operation and for its impact to materialise.

(b) Co-financiers

The KfW report (included in Annex 8) shares largely the main findings of the ICR, mainly the
achieved outcomes, implementation problems and the risks. The main deficiencies are
incapability of the large public enterprise works contractors to implement their contracts properly

                                               17

and late involvement of the IS. While the inability of MWRI to merge CD-IAS and IIS-IAS is
considered a bottleneck for provision of post-implementation support to WUAs, KfW does not
agree that MALR should have a leading role in post implementation support for WUA's. While
KfW agrees with ratings for subcomponents, an overall outcome rating of Satisfactory is justified.
The main benefit of the IIP is the preparation of small scale farmers for periods of water scarcity,
a condition that was not encountered in the past few years, even though highly probable in the
project areas. The comparison of yields between project and non-project areas for non-scarce
water period will not show significant differences.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                              18

A Egypt's irrigation system extends some 1,200 Km. from Aswan to the Mediterranean Sea, and includes two
storage dams at Aswan, seven major barrages on the Nile that divert river water into canals, and over 31,000 km of
irrigation canals that serve the agricultural lands. The canals deliver water into "mesqas", which are channels serving
100 to 500 fed. Mesqas in turn feed "marwas", which are farm ditches serving 10 to 100 fed. The mesqa and marwa
systems are owned, operated and maintained by farmers. Distribution and farm-level delivery of water occurs in
accordance with a complex framework of canal-level rotation coupled with rotation between farmers at the mesqa
level. Typically, farmers in historically cultivated old lands receive water in the mesqas one-half meter below the
elevation of their fields and then pump it into their marwas.
B The most pressing problems confronting the irrigation system are the limited control provided by canal structures
(many of which are only partially functional), inadequate system operations, and inequitable distribution of water at
the tertiary level (where 60 to 70 percent of farmers, at tail-end locations, receive very little water). In this situation,
good agricultural water management is considered a key factor in ensuring food security, poverty reduction, and
environmental protection. Egypt, after ages of expanding irrigation areas and improving productivity, faces a
growing crisis from poorly performing irrigation schemes, slow modernization, declining investment, constrained
water availability, and environmental degradation.
C At the World Bank MNA Region Conference on Job Creation and Skill Development, Cairo, Egypt, December
2005, H.E. Dr. Mohei El Din, Minister of Investment, indicated that "To ensure the sustainability of job creation, the
reform agenda needs to have a lasting impact on building human capital, creating an investment climate and
capturing opportunities for equitable growth that can be offered by sound labor, social and economic policies".
D The three project irrigation command areas were Mahmoudia in Baheira, and Manaifa and El Wasat in Kafr El-
Sheikh governorates. Existing main and secondary delivery system canals were to be improved and provided with
control structures, telemetry systems and mixing stations for reuse of drainage effluent. The tertiary systems were to
be developed through provision of single-point lifting pumps and lined or PVC pipe tertiary laterals. The Irrigation
Advisory Service (IAS) was to be developed to assist with organization of farmers into Water User Groups (WUGs)
at the tertiary level, now denoted mesqa Water User Associations (WUAs), and Branch Canal WUAs (BCWUAs) at
the secondary level, and to provide corresponding training. Institutional support was to be provided through a
communication component at both ministry and project levels, specialized services for monitoring and evaluation
(M&E), environmental management and monitoring programs covering water quality and agricultural chemicals,
on-farm irrigation management demonstration programs, and a training program both in-country and overseas.
E The principal farmer income increases in the improved areas were expected to result from: (i) the continuous flow
(CF) canal operation system to be introduced, allowing for on-demand provision of irrigation water to tail-end
farmers and reduction of over-irrigation by upstream farmers, leading to improved productivity in the whole
command area; and (ii) the improved mesqas and the use of single-point lifting pumps, leading to a significant
reduction in pumping costs, better irrigation timings, improved water distribution equity, and reduced farmer time
and effort inputs for irrigation allowing for greater concentration on improved crop and cultivation practices.
Further project activities aimed at demonstrating better agricultural practices (primarily land leveling) and improved
on-farm irrigation management techniques were also expected to help in increasing agricultural productivity. On the
first of these, one envisaged consequence of more equitable water distribution was to halt the decline of productivity
and/or to improve crop yields in salt-affected downstream areas, by reducing or eliminating the dependence on
drainage water for supplementary irrigation that was a feature of about 60 to 70 percent of the project area. CF
operations would also provide farmers with greater flexibility and opportunities for diversification into higher value
cropping.
F Component descriptions with costs from the SAR text are here corrected to be compatible with the project cost
summary also presented in the SAR.
G The total estimated base cost of the project was US$139.6 million. The addition of physical and price contingency
allowances of US$18.4 million and US$24.3 million respectively led to a the total estimated project cost of
US$ 182.3 million.
H The expected grant financing from the NDGIC for technical assistance (TA) and training, amounting to US$ 3.7
million (2 percent of the total), was withdrawn at an early stage due to their decision to continue targeting drainage
rather than irrigation issues with their assistance; this primarily affected the project's communication and
environment components which were then largely funded from KfW and GOE sources. The project was planned to
have a duration of 8 years and a closing date of 12/31/2002; for reasons described later in this document there were
four time extensions, resulting in an implementation period of 11 years and an eventual project closing date of



                                                         19

12/31/2006. Design improvements implemented in the W-10 pilot area included electrification and substitution of
diesel by electric motors in the single-point lifting pumping stations, adoption of new design criteria for sizing of
piped mesqas, and development and execution of an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation (MALR) to develop a participatory and cost sharing program with farmers for improvement of marwas
(quaternary-level systems).
IThe national strategy to achieve the water policy objective has been to improve the irrigation systems for about 3.5
million fed by the year 2017, to reduce the volume of water lost to the sea, and to promote reuse of wastewater and
drainage water.
JThe Bank/IDA at the time had financed (i) a GOE drainage program totaling US$358 million, covering areas of
about 3.26 million fed for open drains and 3.24 million fed for pipe drains, and (ii) a first pumping stations
rehabilitation program.
K IIP design incorporated, improved upon and scaled up some of the various previously-identified physical
infrastructure improvement concepts (branch and sub-branch canal system adaptations for continuous flow (CF)
operation, provision of single-point lifting pumps at mesqa intakes, and the piping or raising and lining of mesqas,
all new concepts for Egypt at this scale of intervention) and institutional development concepts (establishment of
WUAs for O&M at the mesqa system level, also not previously attempted in Egypt on an extensive basis).
Additional innovative proposed and adopted IIP interventions included (i) an extension of the institutional
development effort to include formation of BCWUAs, and (ii) environmental management provisions, not
previously a feature of similar projects. The basic package of physical irrigation improvement measures included (i)
improvement of the water control and delivery system to allow for the introduction of CF in the branch canals (in
place of the rotational flow system whereby branch canals receive water intermittently in rotations of normally one
day in five during the summer irrigation period), and (ii) improvement of the tertiary systems by converting the
mesqas to low-pressure buried pipelines and/or high-level J-section lined open channels, serving a number of
marwas and supplied by single-point lifting of water from the branch canal through a collective pumping station at
the head of each mesqa (replacing the existing system of multi-point lifting from low-level mesqas into individual
marwas or fields). The physical improvements were to be accompanied by the establishment of (i) a BCWUA to
participate in implementation and management of the improved system at each branch canal level, and (ii) a WUA
for O&M of each improved mesqa.
L Project area crop yields were significantly lower than the rather high national averages for most crops, and hence
some important agricultural production improvements could realistically be expected. Coupling this with large
reductions in the costs of production, resulting from cost savings associated with the system improvements, led to a
foreseen substantial improvement in net financial benefits for farmers and in good economic returns for Egypt.
M The main and secondary delivery system improvement component was to contribute to the first project objective
by (i) addressing physical security, reliability and efficiency of the main and secondary system through localized
important concrete lining, slope stabilization and structures repair and replacement works, and (ii) attending to
important hydraulic and operational regime, control and efficiency aspects of the system; all this in support of the
main tertiary system improvement interventions. The former was well conceived, but the latter suffered from some
shortcomings in formulation. The concepts and issues relating to CF regimes, operational control based on
downstream demands, telemetry-based remote control of gates, and drainage water reuse systems, are complex and
multi-dimensional, involving social and institutional as well as technical and managerial aspects. These were not
sufficiently appreciated and provided for, and hence the introduction of CF operations could not be completed. The
ways and means of achieving a global (Delta-wide) change in irrigation flow regime from rotational to continuous at
branch and mesqa levels have yet to be properly identified, tested and applied. High level policy, institutional and
management investigations and decisions are needed. While the IIP and follow-on IIIMP provide local command-
area level infrastructural and institutional developments to prepare for this change, they do not address the overall
system operation constraints to implementation of a CF operating regime. It is thought that a separate multi-
disciplinary operational planning and management project directly with and for the MWRI's system operating
agencies should be considered, to address and resolve the various related issues. Concerning drainage water re-use
developments, two forms were envisaged, namely (i) conventional large re-use pumping stations, and (ii) localized
recycling of drainage water from rice paddies. The first of these was not implemented because of the increased risk
of drainage water pollution at the tail end of the project area and because of the reduced volumes of fresh water
available for mixing in this area. The second form of intervention was considered to require further research and
field studies, given the perception that there were practical engineering, agronomic, water quality and sociological
issues that needed addressing with much more care than was possible during project preparation and appraisal.



                                                       20

N Tertiary system improvements were aimed at, and succeeded in, scaling up the concepts and interventions from the
pilot project experience, as well as addressing previous shortcomings (e.g. provision of pumps by the project as
opposed to the farmers). Not addressed in its design however was rationalization of mesqa network layouts that
would have served to further improve cost effectiveness and operational efficiency.
O Given the mandatory investment cost sharing arrangements and farmer responsibilities for subsequent O&M, there
could and should have been better interactions between the system designers and WUAs much earlier in the
planning stage, for network layouts planning and for discussions of both the technical and cost-benefit implications
of alternative interventions. There should also have been some recognition that the participation in reviews and
agreements needed to include not only the users but also the system operators responsible for provision and
distribution of water down to the mesqa intakes from the branch canals.
P The project's institutional support provisions for design and construction supervision, M&E, and all other
implementation activities including training, were sizeable but still insufficient, given the limited technical and
institutional expertise and capacity within the IIS, and were not always optimally distributed. The single long-term
international team leader assignment, while well executed, was insufficient to counterbalance and support the
limited capacity of the implementing agency. A second long-term international position, for an assistant team leader,
would have alleviated some implementation difficulties and improved project performance. The planned training
programs included overseas visits and educational advancement and were not as focused on specific and practical
skills relevant to project implementation and follow-on system operations as they could have been.
Q Actions for improving on previous implementation performance called for formation of WUAs and preparation of
tender documents in advance of project effectiveness. Aspects not addressed in the organizational design were the
means of securing needed coordination between farmers, IAS and agricultural extension services, and with other
stakeholders including system operating agencies within and outside of the MWRI, not only for the on-farm
irrigation management demonstration program but also for all of the technical and institutional improvement
activities. In an attempt to secure improvements in contractor performances, a prequalification exercise and
minimum contract value were specified for contracts procurement under international competitive bidding (ICB)
processes.
RAs implementation got underway, farmers' resistance towards the shared single-lift mesqa pumping stations to
replace their individual mesqa-to-marwa pumping arrangements slowed the process much more than had been
expected. Farmers were opposed to relinquishing individual control over use of available water to others via
indirect joint control at the head of the mesqa. Acceptance slowly increased as construction progressed and
improved mesqa operation and performance demonstrations became possible.              This in turn supported and
strengthened the IAS in its efforts to mobilize farmers and expand awareness and understanding of IIP interventions.
S By the time of the mid-term review (MTR) in May 2000, it was clear that it would not be possible to complete all
project area interventions by the original closing date of December 2002. Given the observed good implementation
progress over the previous two semesters, it was agreed to set a series of benchmark indicators to be monitored and
reviewed before deciding on a closing date extension. Since implementation performance subsequently continued to
improve, closing was extended by two years to December 2004. Continued satisfactory performance, and the
decision to implement and support the W-10 pilot area development, led to three additional agreed extensions.
T Due to project cost increases, available funds permitted improvements to be carried out over an area of only about
205,000 fed. (82% of the originally projected 248,000 fed). This value will reach 210,000 fed (85% of the target
value) by the end of 2007, through works undertaken with local funding. To allow for completion of improvements
over the remaining area, KfW approved additional funding for improvements for 44,000 fed in the Mahmoudia
command area. The new KfW supplementary operation, denoted IIP2, involves a loan of 19.1 million Euros and is
scheduled for completion by the end of 2008.
U The long delays in works progress and completion led to a growing need for cancellation and re-tendering of large
contracts. While MWRI seemed to be willing to cancel the delayed contracts the process seemed to be strongly
resisted, in most cases, by the GOE, resulting in several large contracts stalled and corresponding works
uncompleted. Cancelled contracts were eventually re-formulated and re-tendered to small contractors. Late IIP and
early IIP2 experience showed significantly improved performance being achieved on works contracts by small
contractors, including some who had previously also performed well as subcontractors on the larger failed IIP
contracts. However, the limited competition between such contractors had resulted in further cost escalation. There
had also been issues with the performance on supply of water control gates and pumpsets, for which the number of
potential suppliers was also limited.




                                                        21

V Over-sizing of mesqa system pumping stations and pipelines resulted in part from a widespread non-belief in the
advent of CF, and was due also to no night irrigation assumptions (even though farmers sometimes prefer peak-
period night irrigation). Conservative design criteria, and non-acceptance or difficulty of system layouts
rationalization, contributed to high project costs. During construction there was often little attempt to minimize
intervention times and land areas taken out of cultivation, leading to significant extra costs for temporary works and
compensations to farmers.
W Insufficient involvement with the project by the main and branch canal system operating agencies, notably the IS,
resulted in an inadequate sense of ownership and understanding of the improvements. This led to difficulties and
delays in handover of improved canals and acceptance of new operational modes and controls, thus contributing to
the delayed adoption of CF operations.
X The conceptual and institutional difficulties have led to late and only partial achievements in the planned adoption
of the CF regime and hence to a poor result with regard to improved productivity of irrigated cropping in the IIP
area.
Y The adoption of CF operations would involve new tasks for the IS including (i) allocating and recording water
deliveries to individual branch canals in volumetric terms, (ii) communicating and interacting with BCWUAs, (iii)
continuous instead of occasional monitoring of canal and control structure operations, and (iv) undertaking or
supervising of trash removal and other maintenance activities. The IS districts are generally thought to have
adequate numbers of staff for this, but their current qualifications and deployment may not always prove to be suited
to such new tasks.      Appropriate procedures, training programs, equipment and facilities including necessary
transport would all need to be developed and provided.
Z Branch canal automatic downstream control gates provided by the project were generally not understood and/or
accepted by operators and/or water users, leading to their being disabled or bypassed; trash removal arrangements at
these structures were also inadequate and prevented their proper performance. Some distributor structures for
upstream control were retrofitted later at these locations and have been better received. Targets for installation of
vertical gate remote control systems were not achieved. MWRI is conducting a technical assessment of the
approach, used for implementation of the CF.
AA More specifically, W-10 pilot area interventions covered (a) gate automation systems with PLC-based local
automatic control, (b) use of high resolution IKONOS satellite images for mesqa and marwa layouts planning and
design, (c) sizing of pumping stations and pipelines for a water duty of 0.84 l/s/fed (instead of 1.14 l/s/fed) and for
pumping times of 20 hours/day (instead of 16 hours/day), (d) use of 2 or 3 pumps per pumping station each sized at
20, 30, 40 and/or 60 l/s, (e) electrification of pumps with pre-paid card system, (f) testing of PVC pipes with
pressure rating of 2.5 bars (instead of 4 bars), (g) use of butterfly valves / gate valves (instead of alfalfa valves), (h)
testing of marwa improvements (pipelines and lined sections), and (i) cooperation between MWRI/IIS,
MALR/SWERI with GTZ, and farmers, for marwa improvements through a participatory and cost- sharing program.
BB The M&E package was divided into four components: (i) canal and drain monitoring study (CDMS), covering
performance of the delivery system and of drains particularly with regard to tail escape flows; (ii) water quality
monitoring study (WQMS), involving both field data and laboratory analysis for a range of defined water quality
characteristics in the canals and drains covered by the CDMS; (iii) pump operation study (POS), covering operations
at the mesqa level, and focusing on water use at the point of lifting by farmers and related pumping costs; and (iv)
farmer surveys (FS), to collect information on crop production and production costs, as well as information
concerning farmers' perceptions of the improved system. The M&E program also included other activities carried
out by the M&E unit or by other contracted agencies. The M&E unit additional activities were: (i) WUA financial
monitoring survey of operational WUAs; (ii) farmer or irrigation service satisfaction survey; and (iii) collection and
analysis of secondary data obtained from the MALR. Activities covered by other agencies included: (i) remote
sensing studies carried out by WaterWatch on the development of cropping patterns, yields of major crops as well as
crop consumptive water use and soil salinity, covering the three IIP sub-project areas, and comparing the years 1995
and 2002 for the summer seasons and 1997/98 and 2002/03 for the winter seasons; and (ii) performance assessment
of operational WUAs implemented by the Centre for Rural Development Research and Studies (CRDRS) of the
Faculty of Agriculture, Cairo University.
CC On improved mesqas, pipelines accounted for 94% of the total installed length while open J-section lined canals
accounted for the remaining 6% of the installed length.
DD By the end of 2003, it was decided to make use of some surplus funds from the World Bank non disbursed
proceeds to complete the last remaining area of about 6,000 fed in Wasat sub-project (the W-10 contract area). Since
the parallel preparation for the new IIIMP was advancing during the course of 2004, it was agreed to develop the W-
10 area as a pilot improvement area incorporating a number of modifications and strong innovations to the IIP


                                                         22

designs which were being proposed for adoption under the IIIMP. Apart from significant cost reduction measures
which brought down average costs to about LE 4,000/fed, the innovations included electrification of mesqa pumping
stations and improvement of marwas by converting them to buried pipelines.
EE The PDO of the IIIMP is to assist in the implementation of measures aimed at ensuring the efficient and
sustainable use of water and land resources, continuing with the IIP type of interventions but advancing in a much
more integrated way. The IIIMP would support planned institutional reforms and the improvement and rehabilitation
of irrigation and drainage systems and pumping stations, including the removal of system bottlenecks in the main
canals in two full main canal command areas: Mahmoudia and Mit Yazid (gross areas of 550,000 feddan) covering
about 10% of the irrigated area of the Nile delta. It is noted that the Mahmoudia command area includes the
Mahmoudia sub-project area of IIP as well as the area of IIP2, while the Mit Yazid command area includes the
Wasat sub-project area of IIP. The IIIMP was conceived as a first phase of a multi-project program with new
concepts and approaches serving as a model for subsequent similar full command area schemes. Integrated water
management is foreseen with full users' involvement from the planning stage, leading to greater efficiencies in
implementation through more coherent construction programmes and clearer responsibilities of all stakeholders.
FFThe partial involvement of users during both the planning and design stage and the works construction stage
helped to develop strong local ownership of the improvements and to achieve sustainable interventions. The
establishment of WUAs in the early stages of the improvement process was the target method of obtaining user
participation in the IIP. During implementation the WUAs had the role of user representatives, but with the
improved systems in operation and the economic advantages demonstrated, direct users' ownership is ensuring full
sustainability of the improvements. Suggested mesqa WUA and BCWUA M&E indicators and scorings, for use
during the operational phase of the project to monitor sustainability of the WUAs, are included in Annex 5.
GG Concerning the CF issue, it is clear that there is a considerable positive shift in the attitudes over the last few
years. From an initial position of scepticism, or even opposition, among many members of MWRI staff, there is
now a widespread recognition of its benefits. It is recognized also that there is a great reduction of complaints from
farmers about water shortages. Other important developments towards CF operations are (i) a growing recognition
of the need for regulation of water deliveries by discharge rather than by water level, and (ii) an increasing
acceptance that WUAs should have an important role in managing internal water distribution within branch canal
command areas.
HH Some of the clear project benefit indicators are (i) irrigation costs have been reduced by 35 to 42%, (ii) labor
required for irrigation has also been reduced, allowing beneficiaries to give enhanced attention to, and extract
greater benefits from, other farming activities, (iii) land values in the improved areas have increased by LE
20,000/fed to LE 80,000/fed (US$3,500/fed to US$13,800/fed), compared with an average project investment cost
of LE 4,000/fed (US$700), and (iv) farmers in neighbouring unimproved areas have been expressing strong
demands to be included in the new project areas, even while knowing that they will have to pay for the investments
through cost recovery arrangements.
IIAlthough the farmer surveys show some differences in areas planted and yields of major crops, they confirm that
the IIP is far from attaining some of its targets. Yields of major crops in the non-improved areas also increased
significantly as a result of various factors. Hence to expect to achieve the relative increases assumed at appraisal
might be somewhat unrealistic. The relatively modest changes in yields and crop patterns attributable to IIP
interventions would require more time to reflect the impact from the adoption of CF, and to reflect inter-season
variations. In the few sample cases where CF operations were occurring, significant yield increases from non-CF
improved areas to CF improved areas was evident. The assessment also shows the importance of intermediate
outcomes such as improved water reliability, farmer co-operation, financial benefits to farmers from reduced costs,
and savings in land and time taken for irrigation.
JJCF operation benefits (not properly quantified) already realized in a few areas include (i) farmers can irrigate
according to crop needs instead of rotational system constraints, leading to summer crop yield increases in the order
of 10% to 40%, (ii) water distribution equity is improved, complaints from tail-end farmers about water shortages
are reduced, and there are fewer disputes between farmers over water distribution, (iii) unofficial re-use of poor
quality drainage water for irrigation is reduced, (iv) soil conditions in areas that previously suffered from water
shortages and/or relied on re-use of drainage water are improved, and (v) canal water quality is also improved.
KK The CD-IAS is the denoted responsible agency for continuing support for WUAs, but it does not seem to be
prepared or constituted for this task. Measures to reform the institutional IIS-IAS and CD-IAS set-up have been
prepared by MWRI, but strong resistance to these has prevented their implementation.
LLThere are multiple identified aspects to the shortfall in IIS capacity development. Initial hydraulic design capacity
developed and transferred to the irrigation directorates by the international consultants was later mostly lost due to


                                                        23

loss of personnel. Construction supervision control and reporting systems setup and training were also provided, but
there was little implementation of this to improve construction quality, quantity, time and cost management. There
was also little or no effort to internalize or strengthen capacity for management of internationally-financed projects;
the international consultants have been heavily relied on for this. Occasionally, there was strong resistance to
adoption and application of improved internationally proven and accepted technical and managerial standards,
procedures and practices. Some of the various training programs were ineffective due to inappropriate selection of
trainees and insufficient subsequent dissemination of knowledge gained.
MM  Concerning tail-end drainage water use, the farmer surveys showed that in Manaifa only canal water was being
used for irrigation whereas in Wasat and Mahmoudia 10% of the total number of irrigations was still being effected
with drainage water.
NN As a general rule OPS 2.28 requires that the status of project preparation at the time of Board presentation be
such as to allow procurement and other important phases of project implementation to start shortly after loan
approval, and that cost estimates be sufficiently reliable to reduce the need for physical contingency allowances to a
minimum.
OO The IIP had four TTLs during its 11 year implementation period: Mrs. Aizad Khan, Nejdet El Salihi, Usaid I. El-
Hanbali and Jose Simas.
PPSome important agreements reached as a result of Bank supervision missions related to (i) reviewing project
technical approaches and designs, (ii) modification of works contracts bidding aspects including the carrying out of
contractor prequalifications, (iii) execution of training programs, (iv) coordinated intervention of central, regional
and local implementation agencies for recruitment of staff and contracting of design and supervision tasks, and (v)
accelerated establishment of WUAs.
QQ Further strong GOE resistance to the needed cancellation and re-tendering of contracts awarded to large non-
performing contractors led to large contracts being stalled and corresponding works of some meskas being left
uncompleted.
RR IIS implementation and coordination management deficiencies included (i) limited in-house technical capacity,
due to training and recruitment shortfalls, (ii) often poor attention to design quality and cost effectiveness but
excessive and inordinately time-consuming attention to procurements and contracting, (iii) a lack of needed
coordination with and between implementing agencies (e.g. MALR/SWERI), operating agencies (e.g. IS), IAS, CD-
IAS, agricultural extension services, and farmers, a situation that improved during the last few years of the project,
(iv) insufficient attention to post-construction technical and institutional needs and handover processes, and (v) an
unbalanced approach to the on-farm irrigation management component.
SSDelivery system interventions should reduce water supply constraints, branch canal interventions should deal with
conversions for CF regime operations (now seen as the key to increasing water distribution equity, irrigation water
use efficiency and economic return per unit of water), and tertiary, quaternary and on-farm system interventions
should be implemented fully in conjunction with these to maximize the overall benefits.
TT The Borrower considered the project successful to some extent in achieving its goals. M&E results showed
evidence that equity of water distribution between the head and the tail of branch canals improved, and that single
point lifting at the head of mesqas reduced labour, time and costs for irrigation O&M. The environmental conditions
had also improved, decreasing water related diseases due to the piping of mesqas and reducing of drainage water use.
Poverty was reduced by increasing beneficiaries' income and agricultural production, land savings, and decreased
O&M costs. The average crop yields for the three sub-project areas increased by 4 to 12%.
UU The Borrower-indicated factors that caused delays and reduced application of CF operations are changes in world
prices affecting the cost of materials and farmers' initial resistance to accept the new IIP concepts. The limited
capacity of the contractors was also a factor affecting implementation. Other identified problems related to the
control of water distribution in the branch canals through the downstream control gates, stemming from the farmers'
tampering and the accumulation of garbage in front of and under the gates. The great increase in the areas cultivated
by rice were said to mitigate against CF introduction, since demand exceeded the capacity of the delivery system.




                                                         24

                                ANNEX 1: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING


    (a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                            Estimate to project
                                               Appraisal    Actual cost to   completion (IIP 1)   Estimated
                 Components                       cost       closure date                            cost of
                                                estimate     of WB loan       Cost        % of       IIP2
                                                                                        appraisal

A. Irrigation Systems Improvements                115.3         130.9        146.0        126.6       33.4

 Main & Secondary Canals                          19.1          18.1          20.6        107.9        4.7

 Tertiary Development                             96.2          112.8        125.4        130.4       28.7

B. Institutional Support                          10.7          12.1          12.6        117.8        2.0

 In Cairo                                         4.5

 In Field Offices                                  6.2

C. Communication Support (Ministry level)          2.8           0.0          0.0          0.0

D. Irrigation Advisory Services                    8.2           6.7          6.8         82.9         1.0

E. Environmental Mitigation Plan                   1.1           0.5          0.5         45.5

F. On-Farm Irrigation Management Pilot             1.6           1.6          1.6         100.0

Total Baseline Cost                               139.6         151.9        167.5        120.0

Physical Contingencies                            18.4

Price Contingencies                               24.3

Total Project Costs                               182.3         151.9        167.5        91.9        36.4



    (b)      Financing (to Project Completion)

                                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Percentage     Estimate for
    Source of Funds        Type of Financing         Estimate        Estimate          of           IIP 2
                                                  (US$ million)    (US$ million)   Appraisal    (US$ million)
 Government                                             53.7             57.5     107.1 (1)          10.0
 IBRD                                                   26.7             22.9       85.8
 IDA                     35.7 million XDR               53.3              47.1      88.5 (2)
                                                  (35.7XDR)        (35.7 XDR)     (100%)
 KfW                     [Parallel financing]           44.9             40.0       89.1 (3)         26.4
 NDGIC (Netherlands)     [Parallel financing]             3.7               0          0

    Notes: (1) GoE financing includes completion of on-going contracts using local investment funds
             (2) IDA financing is almost fully disbursed in SDR terms. Only SRD 500 were cancelled.
             (3) KfW financing for IIP1 is expected to be fully disbursed in Euro, assuming that balance of
                 KfW loan will be spent on additional works during 2007




                                                     25

                               ANNEX 2: OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objectives were to: (a) increase agricultural production and
farmers income by improving the irrigation infrastructure, facilitating a more equitable
distribution of water and improving on-farm irrigation management; (b) improve the long-
term sustainability through takeover of responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
tertiary level irrigation system by the farmers and their sharing in the costs for tertiary level
investments; and (c) strengthen the institutional planning and implementation capacity of
MWRI in the irrigation subsector. The environmental objectives were: (a) water quality
management and monitoring program; and (b) agricultural chemical management program.
Proposed target values were stated to be as follows (SAR Annex V Table 3):

                                                                      IIP 1 (WB/KfW)       Planned
                Indicator                   Unit     Planned     Completed      Expected
                                                      (SAR)                               under IIP 2
                                                                  to end of     to end of   (KfW)
                                                                    2006          2007
 Physical progress
 Delivery System
 Command area improved                     feddan    248,000      205,000        210,000   36,000
 D/S control structures completed         Number        200          101           108     (note 2)
 Distributor control structures
 completed                                Number        45           34             39     (note 2)

 Re-use pumping stations                  Number         4            0             0         0
 Tertiary System Development
 Meska pumping stations                   Number      2,650        2,756          2,935      650
 PVC pipeline completed                      km       1,500        1,909          2,147      410
 J-section lining completed                  km       1,000          122           128        0
 Institutional Development
 Water Users Associations formed          Number      2,650        2,906          2,935      650
 Mesqas handed over to WUA                Number      2,650        2,351          2,935      650
 Area of improved mesqas handed
 over                                      feddan    248,000      156,000        190,000   34,000

 BCWUAs formed                            Number        67           57             58        12
 Continuous flow applied (note 1)          feddan    248,000       84,000                  36,000
Notes: 1. Including area of direct irrigation from main canals (Manaifa and Mit Yazid)
        2. Type of control gates to be confirmed

Within the project implementation period water delivery systems designs for 68 branch and
sub-branch canals (134 km length) serving 210,000 fed were completed, including 116
downstream control gates and 39 discharge control distributors, with associated regulators.
Slope stabilization works and bridges were done. Because of serious doubts about the
convenience of drainage reuse pumping stations as originally designed, mainly due to
excessive contamination of drainage water given that IIP area is at the tail end of the system,



                                                 26

its construction was not done. Telemetry systems were actually in place from previous
projects, but not used or kept up and not re-established. Centralized remote gate control
targets were not achieved. Downstream control gates were installed but mostly are not in
operation due to interferences, blockages, incomplete canal remodelling and/or lack of CF.
Some distribution control structures were installed later downstream of control gates for flow
limiting purposes, but hydraulic performance is constrained by previous hydraulic design
assumptions and/or incomplete branch canal remodelling. In sum, improvements of the
delivery systems aimed to maintain the canals and adjust design deliveries and abstraction
requirements under the planned CF operation replacing the traditional rotations pattern is
considered only as moderately satisfactory.

At the tertiary system where 70% of the project cost was planned to be invested, the main
indicators are: 2,650 mezqas were improved complying with the original target2. However,
due to shortage of funds, only 199,500 fed could be covered by the IIP investments, 80.4
percent of the original 248,000 fed defined at appraisal3. About 2,658 pumping stations were
installed by the end of 2006 with more than 5,9300 pumps set installations (about 75% more
than the 3,000 target indicated in the SAR).

Although no major mesqa layout rationalizations ware introduced, two main layout
improvement concepts were developed: the conversion of large mesqas into smaller mesqas
and the replacement of direct off takes from main or branch canals by new parallel mesqas.
Generally, old alignments have been maintained regardless of operational suitability and cost
effectiveness, without attempts to prepare and discuss options with users, leading to poor
distribution of sizes, higher costs, etc. The total length of lined-raised and piped mesqas was
also met in 91%, 2,263 km of the 2,500 km targeted at appraisal4. Trenching of pipeline
mesqas alongside old mesqas, with little or no backfilling (as in the previous project) was
changed to placement of pipelines within the old mesqa with full backfilling. The previous
project approach had failed in many areas due to the non-provision of pump sets to the
WUAs. Overall result of the tertiary system component is considered as satisfactory.

Concerning the institutional and operational aspects, The MWRI has been working in
parallel towards an institutional and management reform process aiming to a shared
responsibility of all stakeholders for the use of scarce water resources. The process will still
require several years, and will need further activities as those develop under IIP on the
ground where the principles are applied, lessons are learned, and which give the reform
process the momentum that is required to succeed. The MWRI has already taken several
initiatives in the field of institutional reform, integrated water management, system
improvement; M&E as well as training that are all contributing to increase the efficiency and



2 The value of works completed at the time of the ICR mission is LE 560.4 million and there were still 26 on-
going contracts, three of which were almost completed and 8 are more than 90% complete. Some mesqas are
still to be finished due to the delayed termination of poor performing contracts that had to be re-procured.
3 The original project area not covered by IIP due to cost escalation and shortage of funds is being now
improved by a complementary IIP-2 KfW financed loan.
4 The SAR estimated that 60% of the mezqas would be piped and 40% lined. However, farmers
overwhelmingly preferred the piped mezqas (94%) rather that the raised-lined ones (6%).


                                                       27

effectiveness of the use of the country's water resources. In-country design-related
workshops and training programs developed under IIP had been well attended and are
considered fairly successful. International study tours on the other hand are not seen to have
been of great benefiting overall.       Graduate education provisions were not pursued;
cancellation of these is considered to have been a good decision. On-farm program training
is said to have not been well distributed to potential beneficiaries. In general, poor or
inappropriate control over the training opportunities taken and persons assigned to them is
thought to have reduced the overall value of training program benefits. However, the delayed
implementation (11 years) and slow adoption of the CF regime determine that the
component's outcome is considered as moderately unsatisfactory.

Under the IIP communications package public awareness campaigns and associated baseline
surveys, training programs and goods procurement were carried out. The program had a
positive effect in awareness building through TV campaigns. At later stages, the target turned
from TV public audience to more specific groups. Staff training activities on photographic
documentation and display board preparation were developed. Details for a documentary film
on the project's accomplishments were also developed but not materialized due to budget
constraints. The results are considered moderately satisfactory.

Through the Irrigation Advisory Services component, the IIP has been considerably active
contributing to one of the most important developments in the water sector in Egypt: the
involvement of stakeholders in planning, implementation and management of the water
systems. WUAs establishment supported by IAS has been highly effective but perhaps with
limited attention to post-construction objectives and needs. The Law 213/94 defined that
WUAs were responsible for water management at the level of the privately-owned mesqas in
areas under improvement, in particular for the O&M of the collective pumping station at the
head of the improved mesqas and for the collection of fees to cover O&M costs. The IIP
experience during implementation strongly contributed to the development of the national
policy and legal framework for participatory water management.

The project is also showing some positive impact from environmental management,
resulting from filling-in of old mezqas especially in built-up areas resulting in less quantities
of garbage in the canals, and reduced conflicts between farmers. Progress was also achieved
in the development of EMPs for pilot low-cost sewage collection systems. Results are
considered moderately satisfactory.

The on-farm improvement component received little attention to the importance of
disseminating results from the part of MWRI and an excessive focus by MALR/SWRI on
land leveling in the demonstration program, to the detriment of intended interventions for
irrigation management improvements. It had failed to achieve the expected on-farm impact.
According to the farmer's survey, most farmers are now aware of the importance of land
leveling using laser equipment and its effect in less water and time required for irrigation.
However, even when they are willing to apply it they are unable because being too expensive,
difficult to coordinate among neighboring farmers, and difficult to arrange between crops.
Traditional techniques are still dominant in the IIP areas and very few farmers knew about
improved irrigation practices, dry planting of berseem and/or other trialed techniques. It has



                                            28

been a limiting factor that the agriculture extension staff has little knowledge on simple
technique for improving on-farm water use. IAS staff, TV & radio have been the main source
of information on these aspects but the poor coordination between services is limiting on-
farm impact. Results are considered as moderately unsatisfactory.

Actual achievements per component and for the overall project are shown in the following
table.

                             Project Outcome Ratings by Component

                  Components                      Project          Project          Weight  Contribution
                                               Costs (SAR)       Outcome 1/       over Base  to PDO
                                               US$ million    Rating      Value       %       Value
(a) 1. Improvement of main & secondary canals     25.3          MS          4        13.9     0.556
   2. Improvement of tertiary system              126.4          S          5        69.3     3.465
(b) Institutional Support                         13.3          MU          3         7.3     0.219
(c) Communications                                 3.6          MS          4         2.0     0.080
(d) Irrigation Advisory Services                  10.3          MS          4         5.6     0.224
(e) Environmental Assessment & Management          1.4          MS          4         0.8     0.032
(f) On-Farm Irrigation and Demonstration           2.0          MU          3         1.1     0.033
    Physical and Price Contingencies              42.7                                -          -
Irrigation Improvement Project                    182.3         MS                  100.0     4.609
1/ Highly Satisfactory (HS) = 6; Satisfactory (S) = 5; Marginally Satisfactory (MS) = 4;
Marginally Unsatisfactory (MU) = 3; Unsatisfactory (U) = 2; and Highly Unsatisfactory (HU) = 1.




                                                29

                                        Supplementary Information


Design Aspects

Progress of design and tender preparation was very slow since start-up because the limited
available number of experienced design engineers and even computers for design work in the
directorates to the point that drawing was done manually. The lack of up-to-date large scale
(1/25,000) survey maps5, cadastral surveys and water user registries, and too many other
basic instruments resulted in poor efficiency and implementation capacity6.

Many components of the mesqa system physical improvements were systematically over
designed with little regard to capital cost. Specified construction sequences and processes
including temporary works arrangements also often seem to have been overly elaborate, time
consuming and costly in spite of sizeable mandatory capital cost sharing by users. Examples
of excesses include pump numbers and sizes7, pipeline sizes and pressure specifications,
pumping house station sizes and materials, and backfilling of old open mesqas. Originally
applied normal and reasonable design safety factors were subsequently inflated by
implementing agency directives. One reason for over sizing components was a non-belief in
the attainment of CF regimes and hence a perceived need to provide large capacity for short
duration and infrequent irrigations. Other reasons for conservative design choices included
(i) presumed non-availability of materials and equipment on the local market, (ii) presumed
farmer opposition to improved layouts and more efficient and cost-effective physical and
operational systems and preference for traditional and familiar systems, and (iii) an
unwillingness or inability to consider and apply designs based on modern cost-effective
materials and technology. A further factor was the compartmentalized nature of the planning
and design process and its execution in relative isolation from system operators and users.




5During preparation phase a set of 1/10,000 scale orthophoto maps were procured covering the whole project
area but the quality of originals (films) was rather poor which made it difficult to make satisfactory copies.
6In 2004, IIS acquired high resolution IKONOS satellite images covering the proposed five IIIMP areas,
including the IIP areas. These are now being used for mesqa planning and to produce digitised layout maps of
the improved system. With digital format maps, it is possible to develop GIS formats with maps of structures
built up in "layers" comprising: spatial layout and physical characteristics of the existing water infrastructure
(branch canals, mesqas, marwas), boundaries and areas of all farming units, farmers cadastre (land ownership
and water rights), proposed irrigation improvements and other information layers to be added as needed.
7Project management insistence on designing every pumping stations including at least 2 diesel pumps with
discharge capacity of at least 60 l/s instead of installing also 30 l/s pumps in the smaller mezqas, ended up with
almost 70 percent more pumps than planned and an excessive pumping capacity in the IIP areas.




                                                       30

Cost Escalations.

Mesqa systems over-design, and little cost-effectiveness in design and construction solutions,
led to major cost escalations. Over-sizing of mesqa system pumping stations and pipelines
resulted in part from a widespread non-belief in the advent of CF, and was due also to no
night irrigation assumptions (even though farmers sometimes prefer peak-period night
irrigation). Conservative design criteria contributed to high project costs, and little if any
importance was given to control of implementation costs in general. During construction
there was often little attempt to minimize intervention times and land areas taken out of
cultivation, leading to significant extra costs for temporary works and compensations to
farmers. Backfilling of old mesqas with large volumes of imported material, the nature of re-
tendered mesqa completion contracts, and high general inflation levels, led to further
substantial cost escalations in more recent years. The average cost of improving mesqas
increased from around US$600/fed in mid-2002 to around US$900/fed in mid-2005. Peak
costs were around US$1,000/fed in 2004 and 2005 and reached a maximum of over
US$1,200/fed in mid-2006 (see Graph below).

                                                             Cost of civil works per feddan
                                               (initial contract value and completion values in US$/fed)
                         1400




                         1200




                         1000



    ed)F/$S               800
           (Ut

              cos
                 ctar     600

                     Cont


                          400




                          200




                            0
                             Jul Jan Jul Jan      Jul   Jan  Jul    Jan  Jul      Jan       Jul   Jan Jul   Jan      Jul    Jan    Jul Jan Jul
                             97  98  98  99       99     00  00     01    01       02       02     03  03    04      04      05    05  06  06

                                                                        Date of contract signature

                                         Original contracts           Completion contracts              Poly. (Original contracts)

The higher recent costs gave grounds for concern, particularly by the financing agencies, in
relation to the economic feasibility of the investments. They also raised concern with




                                                                         31

farmers, in relation to their ability and/or willingness to make payments for capital cost
recovery8.

Communications

The IIP communication package was sought to be done in two parts: (i) at the ministry level
and targeted to the general public, policy makers and the MWRI engineers to build
awareness on the scarcity of water resources; and (ii) as an IIP component targeted to the
project area farmers. The component was aimed at development of: (i) a communication
program for MWRI using various mass media techniques; and (ii) a program for WUAs and
BCWUAs with emphasis on water savings, improvement in services, yields, and income as
well as potential for cost sharing to reduce future budget burdens.

The MWRI organized the Water Media Unit by ministerial decree in July 1995. Its main
targets were to develop and execute a media policy for the MWRI, media research activities
aimed at assessing the audiences perception of the water policy, production of media material
including a monthly newsletter, raising awareness of the MWRI's engineers with regard to
the ministry's plans and achievements, as well as preparation of a training plan aimed at
improving capacity for communicating with the farmers.

Main achievement of the communications component's Water Media Unit have been9: (a)
public awareness campaigns on various water related issues (water scarcity, conservation,
importance of farmer-engineer cooperation, etc.); (b) baseline surveys to assess the public
audience's nature and level of awareness as well as the ministry's engineers' ability to
communicate with farmers; (c) training programs for capacity building of MWRI's
communication skills; and (d) various materials for different media types. The program had a
positive effect in awareness building through TV campaigns. At later stages, the target turned
from TV public audience to more specific groups. Staff training activities on photographic
documentation and display board preparation were developed. Details for a documentary film
on the project's accomplishments were also developed but not materialized due to budget
constraints.

Environmental Management

The project's environment component comprised (i) strengthening of MWRI and IIS staff
capacity for environmental assessment and management through specialized on the job
training and TA, (ii) development of guidelines for EA screening and evaluation of irrigation
development projects in cooperation with EEAA, (iii) monitoring of water quality,
particularly of reused agricultural drainage effluent and of soil salinity at the tail-end of each
system, and (iv) implementation of a program to train farmers in the proper storage, handling



8As a result of the cost escalation concerns, new improvement concepts and designs were implemented in the
W-10 pilot area that reduced unit costs to about US$850/fed (the last point on the graph); this cost included the
piping of marwas not previously included.
9The unit's main source of funding through its initial phase (1995-1999) came from projects' components
support. Since then, the unit has been funded through a dedicated budget allocated by the ministry.


                                                    32

and use of pesticides. The credit agreement also contained a covenant pertaining to bilharzia
(shistosomiasis) snails, which were complied with. The total cost of the component was to
be US$ 1.43 million; US$0.9 million of this was for TA services to be covered by the
NDGIC, and the balance, for goods, was to be provided by the World Bank. Following the
withdrawal from the project of NDGIC, some replacement funding was provided by KfW
and the World Bank (IDA).

Later, after some progress had been achieved on items (i) and (iii) above, and based on the
findings of the MTR and follow-up safeguards and other missions, the environment
component was re-formulated to comprise (i) setup and staffing of an Environmental Unit
(EU), (ii) development and implementation of site specific Environmental Management
Plans (EMPs), focusing on mitigating project area impacts of existing pollution sources
rather than of project activities10, (iii) environmental screening for any new drainage water
reuse pumping stations, but no formal EAs, (iv) environmental training for senior
management staff, (v) procurement of water quality monitoring equipment, (vi) M&E of
canal and drain water quality and monitoring of soil quality, (vii) review of water quality
guidelines, and (viii) gender activities.

The EU was established and carried out the above mentioned activities with support from the
project implementation consultant. EMP development and implementation activities were
aimed at completion of three phases at each of two selected pilot command areas, Besentway
and Daqalt, the phases being (i) diagnosis of solid waste and sanitation problems, (ii)
selection of winning mitigation options through community participation processes, and (iii)
effecting selected mitigation measures in cooperation with pertinent MWRI departments.
First and second phase activities were completed for both pilot command areas.                                In
Besentway, the third phase was partly implemented through the Dutch-funded Water Quality
Management Unit (WQMU); a low-cost sewage collection system was piloted, but treatment
prior to disposal to drains could not be completed due to disproportionately high costs of
purchase of needed farm lands. Since there were no drainage water reuse pumping stations
constructed under the project (as discussed in Section 2.1(b)11), environmental screening
activities were not undertaken. Environmental training was effected in accordance with the
component reformulation but was at a lower level than was envisaged at appraisal. Water
quality monitoring equipment was procured and used for the water quality monitoring study
undertaken as part of the M&E component. The soil monitoring study was started at an early
stage of the project but was never completed according to plan. Water quality guidelines



10The objective of the EMP was defined as follows: "to identify and where possible, within the financial
constraints of the project, implement measures, which will complement the irrigation improvement works to
bring about improved environmental conditions within the branch canal command area."
11Reuse of agricultural drainage water became national policy during the 1980s. Currently, 5 billion m3 of
drainage water, with an average salinity of 1.8 dS/m, is reused each year and another 3 billion m3 of drainage
water is committed for reuse in the new reclamation areas in the near future. So far this reuse strategy has not
caused deterioration of the salt balance in the Nile Delta. This favorable situation was achieved, partially with
the help of World Bank funded drainage projects, through a program under which drainage systems were
installed for 90 percent of the irrigated land areas. Resulting drainage water is reused after mixing with
freshwater that has low salinity content. Tools including functional water volume and quality monitoring
systems have been developed for planning and management.


                                                     33

were reviewed, and gender activities with emphasis on environmental issues were
incorporated into broader IAS community awareness and mobilization activities.

Follow-up environmental management activities are expected to take place under the new
IIIMP, largely in connection with projected sanitation, sewerage and solid waste
management initiatives. There would appear to be advantages in planning for demonstration
pilots for these in the Daqalt and Besentway command areas, in which relevant diagnosis and
mitigation option selection work was carried out under the IIP as outlined above.

It has become clear that project-specific EUs cannot be sustained in the absence of
corresponding needed operating resources (funds, equipment and personnel). Also,
departments/sectors such as IIS, where EUs are created/hosted, do not usually have mandates
for execution of environmental interventions12. It would seem that environmental and
safeguard components of future water-related projects would achieve better results by
mobilizing the capacity of MWRI in-house departments/units that are already mandated to
execute EMPs, such as the Drainage Authority and the WQMU.

Procurement

Works

The SAR and/or procurement rules called for procurement of contractors for works using
ICB, pre-qualification of contractors. A number of pre-qualification processes were carried
out, in 1994 (prior to project effectiveness), 1999 and 2001. During the period 1996-1998,
open bidding processes were conducted. These gave poor outcomes, leading to a decision by
the implementing agency to revert to prequalification of contractors as the preferred
procurement approach.

By about 2001, all of the works packages had been tendered and contracted. However, by
2002, it became evident that several contractors were non-performing and/or failing, perhaps
in part as a result of the then prevailing macro-economic conditions in the country. Most of
the failing contractors were large public enterprise (parastatal) enterprises. By 2003 a process
of cancellation and re-bidding of contracts had started, and this continued during 2004. New
biddings to implement remaining works were conducted after splitting the original contracts
into smaller ones more suitable for implementation by smaller private sector contractors.
Since the project was due to close in late 2004, with no clear indication at the time that there
would be a re-extension, a decision was made not to re-conduct the time-consuming pre-
qualification process. From early in the re-tendering process it became evident that there
would be a low level of response from pre-qualified contractors, attributed to the fact that
many of them had been adversely affected by the previously mentioned situation.                             A
reversion to open bidding processes was a possibility, but due to the earlier bad experience
with this the IIS decided instead to extend the list of pre-qualified contractors using
simplified procedures. Clearances for this were obtained from the Bank.



12An exception would be the coverage of drains passing through residential areas, which can be and is executed
directly under the IIS.


                                                  34

Not all of the remaining delayed works contracts were cancelled and re-tendered, and some
of the improvement works remain uncompleted to date. The MWRI seems to have been keen
to cancel all of the delayed contracts, but other considerations within GOE seem to have
prevented the completion of this process. The MWRI had to revert to the difficult process of
managing the delayed contracts such that the maximum amount of improvement works could
be completed. To this end the IIS tried to reduce the scope of ongoing contracts such that
works would not be initiated for any mesqa systems that had not already been handed over to
the contractors, and at the same time tried to facilitate advancement in the ones where works
has already started. Only limited progress could be achieved due to the fact that contract
prices were well below current market prices, due to recent major price hikes. This situation
could not be mitigated because of a political decision that contractors could not be fully
compensated for price escalation. However, the impact on the project of this constraint was
minor because most of the delayed contractors were in default and therefore ineligible for
compensation even if price adjustment provisions could have been activated.

The re-tendering that were carried out in 2004 had low numbers of bidders. For the future it
is recommended that improvements to the current bidding processes, comprising either more
frequent pre-qualification processes or open bidding processes with well-formulated post-
qualification criteria and control procedures, be effected. Exclusion of previously non-
performing contractors would also be an obvious step to take, as would the incorporation of
price adjustment provisions into the contracts. Bid evaluation and construction supervision
procedures in particular, and overall procurement capacity in general, also need improvement,
possibly best ensured through arranging for the involvement of experienced international
consultants.

Goods

No major problems were encountered with goods contracts. A mass procurement of diesel
pumps was carried out, without major shortcomings in pumps inventory management being
observed. This procurement option could also be suitable in the future for pipes, fittings, etc.,
but improvement of storage conditions, particularly in Damanhour, would be warranted.

Consultants

Procurement of consultants was managed primarily through KfW.




                                            35

                            ANNEX 3: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS


Introduction

The objectives of the IIP were to: (i) increase agricultural production and farmers income by
improving the irrigation infrastructure, facilitating a more equitable distribution of water, and
improved on-farm water management; (ii) improve the long-term sustainability, through
takeover of responsibility for the O&M of the tertiary level irrigation system by the new
WUAs and their sharing in the costs for the tertiary level investments; and (iii) strengthen the
institutional planning and implementation capacity of the Ministry in charge of the irrigation
subsector.

The project area is located in the northern part of the Delta, where on account of extensive
drainage reuse, water quality is extremely poor and limits crop choices by farmers. The
existing delivery system of main and secondary canals in the three project irrigation
command areas - serving a net irrigable farm area of about 248,000 feddan13 - was planned to
be improved and provided with control structures, telemetry system and mixing stations
installed for introduction of continuous flow (CF), and for monitored reuse of drainage
effluent. The tertiary systems would be developed with raised lined, or PVC piped tertiary
laterals (mezqas) fed by single-point lifting pumps substituting several individual old pumps.
The Irrigation Advisory Service (IAS) was to assist with organization and training of farmers
into WUAs at tertiary level and at the secondary level BCWUA. The on-farm irrigation
management demonstration program would induce the adoption of improved technologies
that would enhance: (i) water use efficiency; and (ii) agricultural production through the use
of proven technologies.

The IIP expected impact
                                       Table 3.1 Economic Analysis



                                   Time of the Analysis              ERR                NPV
                                                                      (%)        (in US$ million)
                               Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)          25.2               203.5
                                 Mid Term Review (MTR)               16.4               173.4
                                Implementation Completion
                                 and Results Report (ICR)            15.0               165.2

The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated during appraisal (1994) at 25
percent and the project's economic net present value (NPV) at a discount rate of 12 percent at
US$126.2 million in constant FY94 prices (US$203.5 million in constant 2006 prices). The
SAR economic and financial justification was based on benefits reaching to about 95,000
farm households who would attain increased incomes resulting from: (i) being provided with



13Area equivalent to almost 104,200 ha. Because of the existing variation in the water distribution at the tertiary
level in project area, it was assumed that only 60 percent of the area would benefit from the project.


                                                      36

timely and adequate amount of irrigation water, (ii) preventing losses in their income levels
from what would otherwise be a deterioration of soil conditions; and (iii) saving in about 34
percent in the pumping cost of irrigation water. Also, an efficient use of water at the farm
level would result in an overall saving of water, but the value these savings was not taken
into account for the estimation of the SAR's ERR and NPV.

The continuous flow (CF) operation system to be introduced at the mezqas by the IIP would
allow on demand availability of irrigation water to farmers, which in turn would: (i) establish
a more equitable water distribution system, (ii) progressively eliminate over-irrigation by
upstream farmers and, (iii) halt the decline of agricultural productivity as well as improve
yields (particularly for summer crops) in the salt affected and thirsty downstream areas,
which were estimated to represent about 60 to 70 percent of the total project area. The
improved mesqas and the use of single-point lifting pumps would bring about a significant
reduction in pumping costs and would allow better irrigation timing. Project activities
demonstrating better cultural practices and improved on-farm irrigation management
techniques would also help in increasing agricultural productivity.

Cropping patterns were not expected to change dramatically but, as irrigation water became
available on-demand, timely crop establishment and irrigations as well as better quality
irrigation water would allow for planting more high value crops and increase yields of both
winter and summer crops. The increased water availability to tail-end farmers would allow
them to cultivate rice as a reclamation crop more frequently, and thereby leach their lands
from salts at least once every two years. Hence, the area devoted to rice was expected to
increase and cover more than 50 percent of the total summer cropped area while the areas
devoted to cotton and maize would decrease accordingly. Lands leached (reclaimed through
the rice crop) would support more high value winter crops and broad beans, vegetables and
wheat would be increased by about 10 percent.

Crop yields were expected to increase by 8 to 15 percent for winter crops and by 28 to 41
percent for summer crops in 60 percent of the project area (tail end farms) as a result of the
planned reliable availability of good quality water, as well as the foreseen improvements in
on-farm irrigation management. Increments were expected to be equivalent to the average
differences in yields between upstream farms receiving adequate and timely water and tail-
end farms suffering from the lack of or timeliness in obtaining their water. The project's
annual incremental production at full development would include 109,000 tons of rice,
129,000 tons of winter and summer vegetables, 38,000 tons of citrus, 26,000 tons of wheat,
20,000 tons of sugar beets, and 4,000 tons of broad beans; all valued at US$50 million.

Expected farm income increases as result of the project improvements were also analyzed
based on three representative farm sizes (small, medium, and large) in each of the three sub-
project areas. With the project, differences in yields between the upstream farmers and the
tail-end farmers were expected to disappear. Moreover, existing yield levels in the tail ends
of the project area were expected to deteriorate significantly over time since the continuous
use of saline drainage effluent without mixing with fresh water would cause a severe build-
up of salt content in the soil. Without the project improvements yields were expected to fall
by 20 percent over the following ten years. The SAR estimated that with the project farm



                                            37

incomes and the average per capita income would increase about 70 to 83 percent14 if
compared to the without project case.

The Mid Term Review

The expected economic and financial results were re-assessed for the mid term review
(MTR) in May 2004. Three scenarios were assessed considering alternative targets given the
poor progress achieved up to that time. The option finally accepted was to proceed with the
original plan but extending the closing date. The assessment assumed minor changes from
the original parameters: (i) cropping patterns were assumed to be similar in both project
scenarios; (ii) input and output prices were updated; (iii) savings in irrigation costs were re-
evaluated; (iv) a small benefit from land savings and reduced mezqa O&M costs was added;
(v) total area to benefit from the project improvements (tail end farms) was increased from
60 to 67 percent; (vi) project costs were updated; and (vii) cost and benefits were re-phased.
As in the SAR, the analysis was carried out over a period of 30 years and the new ERR was
estimated at 16.4 percent, assuming full implementation of the SAR defined IIP, but
extending to December 31, 2004 the project closing date. The expected reduction in ERR
compared with the SAR (25%) was mentioned to be due to (i) the fall of world traded
commodity prices, and (ii) the effects of the delays in implementation.

The ICR estimated result

The ICR estimation of the expected ERR considering what is actually being achieved so
far, and what could reasonably be expected in the future, is 15 percent; and the NPV US$29
million at 12 percent discount rate. Even when these results are satisfactory, they are
significantly lower than the ERR estimated at appraisal (25.2 percent) but in line with the
MTR assessment (16.4 percent). The main reasons explaining the reduced ERR are: (i) the
limited application of CF (9 per cent of the area at the time of the last farmers survey (35
percent at closing date), with variable discharges and still cyclic delivery) in the improved
distribution system maintaining considerable lack of equity in water availability and still
meager yield increases at the tail end of canals; (ii) low adoption of crop and water
management improved technologies; (iii) unimproved areas not showing the reduced yields
foreseen at appraisal due to the use of low quality drainage water for irrigation to compensate
the insufficient fresh water in canals on the system's tail areas; and (iv) the 18 percent
reduction of the improved area (205,000 fed instead of 248,000 fed).

Project costs and benefits were estimated using 1997 to 2006 real market prices inflated into
2006 constant LE. Conversion factors used for valuing costs and benefits for the economic
analysis were based mainly on estimations of border prices for tradable inputs and products.
These factors included: 3.0 for diesel15; 0.9 for phosphate and potassium fertilizers; 0.95 for



14Table 6.1, SAR, December 1, 1994. However, the Working Document C3, Volume II, Annex C, page 17,
December 30, 1994 shows expected farm income increases for the representative farm models of about 27.2 to
36.5 percent.
15Egypt is a net oil exporter, producing almost 50 percent more oil than its domestic consumption. It refines the
majority of its domestic consumption of products. According to IEA statistics, Egypt consumed 21 million tons


                                                    38

     wheat; 0.98 for cotton; 0.9 for maize; 1.1 for rice; and 0.7 for meat and milk. For non-traded
     commodities, such as berseem (alfalfa), and fruits and vegetables, financial prices were
     assumed to be in line with its economic shadow prices, hence needing no adjustment.
     Agricultural machinery, pumps, irrigation equipment and other on-farm investment costs
     were all valued using 0.95 as conversion factor. Prices projections for traded inputs and
     outputs were assumed to follow the most recent forecasts of international prices prepared by
     the WB.

     Project costs in financial current prices were converted into economic constant 2006 prices,
     excluding taxes and duties. The following factors were used for adjusting IIP investments:
     civil works 0.85; equipment 0.95; and specialized consulting services 1.0. Training costs
     were excluded from the analysis as benefits go beyond the IIP. Economic prices were then
     estimated in constant 2006 prices by using the GDP deflator for the portion of project costs in
     local currency; and the Manufacturing Unit Value (MUV) index for the foreign component
     of the project investment costs. Total project costs in constant 2006 economic prices are
     summarized in the following Table 3.2.

               Table 3.2 Total IIP implementation costs (current financial prices; `000 LE)

 Components                                 1997  1998   1999     2000      2001       2002      2003    2004  2005      2006  2007

 1. Civil works (secondary & tertiary syst)     0 11,455 35,518 60,024      90,928 168,245      92,584 48,453 42,295 23,683 19,223
 2. Equipment (secondary & tertiary syst)     279  4,319    705   6,577       4,267     7,314   10,637   8,526 8,266     2,773 3,962
 3. Other civil works                           0    245      0     319            0        0        0       0      0        0     0
 4. Other equipment                         2,820 1,059  1,126      561         170       965      794     365 1,371     1,450    0
5. Specialized services                     5,653 4,968  5,588    3,156       3,175     4,525    7,871   5,719 4,908     1,650 5,078
 5.1 Specialized services ­ World Bank         67    217    278      76            5       27       19       0      0        0     0
 5.2 Engineering support                    3,260  2,658  2,823   1,181       1,962     2,651    2,528   1,505 1,817       776     0
 5.3 Supplementary measures                 2,327  2,093  2,487   1,900       1,208     1,632    3,181   2,827 1,422       219     0
 5.4 M&E                                        0      0      0       0            0      215    2,142   1,387 1,669       655 5,078
 6. Recurrent expenditure IIS               1,921 2,776  3,550    4,195       3,745     3,235    3,027   2,530 2,419     2,262 1,077
 Total project cost IIP                    10,672 24,822 46,487 74,832 102,285 184,284 114,912 65,593 59,257 31,818 29,341

     IIP benefits were derived from aggregate incremental farm net income (comparing with
     versus without project scenarios) resulting from representative crop and farm models
     representing each of the three project's improved sub-areas. Crop budgets are based on real
     data obtained through interviews with farmers and from the M&E farmers survey (FS)
     conducted between 2002 and 2005 by the WMRI. Average yields and cropping patterns in
     improved and unimproved areas were computed as if they represented the with and without
     scenarios taking also into account Waterwatch studies based on remote sensing approaches




     of petroleum products in 2003 of which diesel accounted for about 39 percent. In September 2004, diesel prices
     were raised for the first time in a decade by 50 percent, but this still left the price at LE 0.60 (US$0.10) per liter.
     The government estimated at the time that the diesel subsidy cost some 5 billion Egyptian pounds (US$800
     million) a year. In fiscal year 2005­06, the petroleum subsidy (which includes natural gas and all oil products)
     was made explicit for the first time at LE 22 billion (US$3.8 billion); and in February 2006 revised the subsidy
     cost to LE 41 billion (US$7.1 billion). The structure of subsidies encourages the use of diesel pumps and higher
     levels of waste, discourages substitution towards electricity and has a significant impact on the state budget.


                                                          39

applied over 1997/98, 2002/03 16 images. Table 3.3 below summarizes yield increases
considered for the main crops with project as compared to the without project scenario17.
Incremental yields are highly coherent with the result of 2005 farmers' surveys but probably
is a conservative estimation of impact since yields have continued to improve further as the
establishment of CF in IIP branch canals and mezqas allows for the expression of the on-
demand water availability at the tail end farms at least in about 35 per cent of the area today
with partial CF.

Table 3.3 Yield improvement factors of major crops with project versus without project

                                                                                             2007-
                                1998   1999 2000    2001  2002   2003   2004   2005   2006    2015
          Wheat                 1.005  1.01  1.02   1.03  1.035   1.04 1.045   1.05    1.05   1.05
          Rice                  1.015  1.03 1.045   1.06  1.065   1.07 1.075   1.08    1.08   1.08
          Maize                 1.005  1.01  1.02   1.03  1.035   1.04 1.045   1.05    1.05   1.05
          berseem, LS           1.005  1.01 1.015   1.02  1.025   1.03  1.03   1.03    1.03   1.03
          berseem, SS           1.005  1.01 1.015   1.02  1.025   1.03  1.03   1.03    1.03   1.03
          broad beans           1.005  1.01  1.02   1.03  1.035   1.04 1.045   1.05    1.05   1.05
          sugar beet            1.005  1.01  1.02   1.03  1.035   1.04 1.045   1.05    1.05   1.05
          winter vegetables      1.01  1.02  1.03   1.04  1.05    1.05  1.05   1.05    1.05   1.05
          summer vegetables      1.01  1.02  1.03   1.04  1.05    1.05  1.05   1.05    1.05   1.05
          Cotton                1.005  1.01  1.02   1.03  1.035   1.04 1.045   1.05    1.05   1.05
          Citrus                 1.01  1.02  1.03   1.04  1.05    1.05  1.05   1.05    1.05   1.05
          water melon seeds      1.01  1.02  1.03   1.04  1.05    1.05  1.05   1.05    1.05   1.05


As in the previous evaluations, cropping intensities were considered to be 200 % for both
with and without project situations and cropping patterns showed only minor differences
between scenarios. For each of the three regions three farm models were built representing
the following percentage of farms per size brackets: (i) about 24 per cent of farms being
smaller than one fed (average size 0.75 fed); (ii) about 40 per cent between 1 and 3 fed
(average size 1.5 fed); and (iii) about 36 per cent larger than 3 fed (average size 4 fed).

Irrigation cost reductions constitute a significant source of benefits resulting in the
overwhelming farmers' acceptance of the improvements with cost recovery agreements being
achieved by the IIP. Improved mesqas allow for reductions in the farms' pumping cost of
irrigation estimated in about 35 to 42 percent in financial terms (42 percent weighted average
in economic terms). The improved efficiency of water conveyance and the corresponding
water savings being obtained with project was estimated based on the piped mezqa
conveyance efficiency been improved from 80 to 95 percent. IIP investments at the
secondary delivery systems were assumed to have no significant impact on the overall




16 The farmer surveys comprised 5 summer seasons (2001 to 2005) and 4 winter seasons (2001/02 to 2004/05).
It is difficult to identify a clear trend in cropping patterns for unimproved or improved areas, or to obtain
statistically significant differences between areas. Shares of the main crops in total planted area show important
inter annual variations in both the summer and winter seasons. This could be attributed to changes in relative
crop revenues, for example as a result of producer price changes for crops that can easily substitute each other.
17 The yield increases estimates are based on the results from in-depth statistical analyses, including multiple
regression analysis, carried out on the yield data sets of the farmer surveys by the IIP international M&E
specialist. For the improved areas yields appeared to be 3 % higher for berseem; 5 % for wheat, maize, broad
beans, sugar beet, winter and summer vegetables, cotton as well as citrus (as perennial crop); and 8% for rice.


                                                      40

system efficiency so far. Additionally, the more efficient single-point lifting pump sets
reduce considerably the O&M costs of pumping and the labor requirements for irrigation.

Assumptions on theoretical crop water requirements, in terms of conjunctive use, were based
on the results of a recent "matching study" and are shown in the following table 3.4 for
Mahmoudia sub-project area (Western Delta Region), and Wasat and Manaifa (Northern
Delta Region)18. As far as data is available, the table also shows the estimated consumptive
use as published in the National Water Resources Plan in 2001 for Lower Egypt. For broad
beans, no estimate was found for the Northern Delta Region, so the same values as for
Western Delta were used.

            Table 3.4         Consumptive use by crops and IIP intervention areas

                 Crops            Northern Delta      Western Delta     difference   NWRP lower
                                  Manaifa/Wasat        Mahmoudia        %              Egypt
                 Winter
                 Wheat                   1,606            1,885            17,4         1,828
                 Berseem LS              2,266            2,654            17,1         2,345
                 Berseem SS              1,471            1,725            17,3          n.a.
                 Beans                   1,895            1,895                          n.a.
                 sugar beets             2,171             n.a.                          n.a.
                 vegetables /            1,363            1,574            15,5          n.a.
                 Summer
                 Rice                    4,467            4,869             9,0         4,248
                 Cotton                  2,886            3,320            15,0         3,881
                 Maize                   2,128            2,424            13,9         2,474
                 vegetables              3,698            4,228            14,3          n.a.


Based on the theoretical requirements and on the overall irrigation efficiency improvement as
presented above, the crop water requirements per feddan for the without and with project
situation were calculated for Mahmoudia and Manaifa/Wasat areas respectively19. Potential
water savings resulting from these assumptions were estimated to be up to 27.8 % in the with
project situation. Such would be the case if with the improved mezqas the water use index
(WUI), defined as overall irrigation water supply over crop theoretical requirements, would
improve from 140 percent (without) to 120 percent (with) as a result of farmers having higher
security about timely water availability, reducing their over flooding of crops when water is
available.

For the calculation of irrigation costs, the standard approach used in the SAR and in the MTR
was used and values updated following these criteria: (i) the 1999 financial values used in the
MTR report as initial investment costs of pump sets updated by using the composite
"equipment/machinery" of the wholesale price index (WPI); (ii) fuel prices inflated to 2006
values by using the "fuel and fuel-related products" price index of the WPI; (iii) operator



18The estimates of crop consumptive water use shown in Table 3.3 are based on the assumption that the
average overall conveyance efficiency is 85 percent.
19IIP. Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report. Ex-post financial and economic analysis. Draft
Report (March 2007). Jurgen Blanken, Consultant.


                                                    41

costs & labor wages determined by applying the average annual price increases as used for
the agricultural labor wage rates (from the average increase of labor costs in agricultural
production from MALR statistics). As for the SAR and MTR reports, the following models
were distinguished:

     · without project two sizes were considered: (i) farmers' individual pump sets with 5
        HP and a discharge of 110 l/sec, or (ii) with 7.5 HP and a discharge of 200 l/sec. An
        efficiency of 100 % was used for all computations. The assumptions made in the
        MTR as regards technical parameters such as the working life time, total lifetime
        maintenance costs (50 % of initial investment), fuel consumption per hour, costs of
        lubricants as a fixed percentage of fuel costs (10 %), as well as maintenance costs
        being a function of annual pumping hours were adopted without any change. For the
        analysis of irrigation costs in the without project situation, the average pumping costs
        of the 2 models described above have been used (see Table 3.5 below).

  Table 3.5: Pumping costs per m3 (LE/m3) in financial current prices ­ without project


                                          1999    2000   2001    2002      2003      2004  2005     2006
        5 HP; 110l/sec discharge
        Annual use 375 hours             0.0273   0.0273 0.0277 0.0287    0.0311    0.0342 0.0374  0.0396
        Annual use 500 hours             0.0254   0.0255 0.0259 0.0268    0.0290    0.0319 0.0349  0.0370
        7.5 HP 200 l/sec discharge
        Annual use 375 hours             0.0231   0.0229 0.0232 0.0239    0.0258    0.0285 0.0309  0.0328
        Annual use 500 hours             0.0211   0.0210 0.0212 0.0219    0.0236    0.0261 0.0283  0.0301
        Average both pump sets
        Annual use 375 hours             0.0252   0.0251 0.0255 0.0263    0.0285    0.0314 0.0342  0.0362
        Annual use 500 hours             0.0233   0.0232 0.0235 0.0243    0.0263    0.0290 0.0316  0.0336
        Average                          0.0242   0.0242 0.0245 0.0253    0.0274    0.0302 0.0329  0.0349


     · with project, three pump sets size possibilities were analyzed: (i) small meska (up to
        50 feddan) with 2 pump sets of 60 l/sec each, and a discharge capacity of 432
        m3/hour; (ii) medium meska (100 feddan) with 2 pump sets of 60 and 90 l/sec, and a
        discharge capacity of 540 m3/hour; and (iii) large meska (200 feddan and more), 2
        pumps of 90 and 150 l/sec, and a total discharge capacity of 864 m3/hour. All
        technical pump parameters and cost items were supposed to be the same as for the
        MTR report, except for the cost estimate for the lifetime maintenance costs which
        was increased from 33 to 75 percent of the initial investment, as proposed by IIS.
        Based on the data obtained from IIS on the total improvement area and the meskas
        handed over to users by the end of 200620, the average pumping costs obtained for the
        small and medium size meskas for the improved IIP area as shown in table 3.6 below.




20 The average command area per meska for the 3 sub-project areas is as follows: (i) Mahmoudia 70.4 feddan;
(ii) Manaifa 62.2 feddan; and (iii) Wasat 63.2 feddan.


                                                    42

Table 3.6: Pumping costs per m3 (LE/m3) in financial current prices ­ with project


                                     1999   2000   2001    2002    2003    2004   2005     2006
        Small meska (50 feddan)      0.0196 0.0195 0.0197  0.0204  0.0221 0.0245  0.0265   0.0280
        Medium meska (100 feddan)    0.0147 0.0146 0.0147  0.0152  0.0165 0.0182  0.0197   0.0208
        Large meska (200 feddan)     0.0121 0.0119 0.0121  0.0124  0.0134 0.0149  0.0160   0.0170
        Average all 3 sizes          0.0155 0.0153 0.0155  0.0160  0.0173 0.0192  0.0207   0.0219
        Average small & medium size  0.0171 0.0170 0.0172  0.0178  0.0193 0.0213  0.0231   0.0244


Financial Analysis: Farm Models. FARMOD software allowed for the assessment of the
IIP impact at the beneficiaries' family income level. Family labor availability was introduced
to the farm models to determine seasonal requirements for hired labor. Self consumed farm
production and off-farm employment was also estimated as well as relevant family expenses,
to analyze social aspects related to poverty alleviation and the impact of improvements on
income. Full cost recovery of investments was also introduced (assuming 3 years for
repayment of pumps and 20 years for mezqa investments) in order to verify the payment
capacity of small farmers and the net income after cost recovery. Table 3.7 below shows the
farm budget for a 1.5 feddan model for the Mahmoudia improved area.


        Table 3.7: New Areas Farm Model (1.5 feddan) Financial Budget (In LE)

                                                   Without                      With Project
                                                    Project    1        2      3       4      5 ­ 20
     Main Production
        Winter Crops                                  3,460   3,460   3,585   3,570   3,647    3,645
        Summer Crops                                  3,240   3,240   3,319   3,388   3,371    3,750
        Fruits and Vegetables                         2,515   2,515   2,708   2,753   2,942    2,432
        Animal products                               9,000   9,000   9,000   9,000   9,000    9,000
     Sub-total Main Production                       18,215  18,215  18,612  18,711  18,960   18,827
     Sub-total Byproducts                               305     305     337     361     397      474
     Gross Value Of Production                       18,520  18,520  18,949  19,072  19,357   19,301
     Sub-Total On-Farm Use                            2,805   2,805   2,850   2,766   2,671    2,410
     Sub-Total On-Farm Consumption                    3,121   3,121   3,164   3,115   3,109    3,303
     Net Value Of Production                         12,593  12,593  12,934  13,192  13,577   13,588
     Off Farm Employment                              3,835   3,835   3,736   4,082   3,945    4,152
     Purchased Consumption                              300     300     300     300     300      300
        INFLOWS                                      16,128  16,128  16,370  16,974  17,222   17,440
     Production Cost: Investment                              5,670       -       -       -        -
        Operating Costs                               3,703   3,643   3,650   3,594   3,623    4,141
     Sub-Total Production Cost                        3,703   3,703   3,650   3,594   3,623    4,141
        OUTFLOWS                                      3,703   9,313   3,650   3,594   3,623    4,141
     Cash Flow Before Financing                               6,815  12,720  13,380  13,598   13,299
     Farm Family Benefits Before Financing           12,354   9,936  15,884  16,494  16,707   16,602
     Net Financing (Cost Recovery)                            8,948    -400   -408     -407     -265
     Cash Flow After Financing                       12,354  15,763  12,320  12,971  13,191   13,034
     Family Benefits After Financing                 15,546  15,616  15,484  16,086  16,300   16,337
     Returns per Family-Day of Labor                     85      85      84      87      86       90
   1.1     NPV = LE 3,636.


Annual benefits in this Mahmoudia 1.5 feddan farm model allowed for an increase in family
household income (after cost recovery) by 5%, from US$2,726 to US$2,866 equivalent,
representing a daily net per capita income of US$1.24 and US$1.31 respectively (hence still
under poverty line) using an average family size of six members. Similar to the model



                                                43

presented above, nine farm models were built to represent the universe of IIP beneficiaries
from the three sub areas, considering three farm sizes (average size of 0.75 feddan, 1.5
feddan and 4 feddan). Table 3.8 below shows the area covered by each type of farm, the
assumed number of farms represented in the improved areas and the expected family income
increases in the sixth year, after full cost recovery of pump costs. It also shows in the last
column the NPV of the incremental benefits to be attained by farmers as a result of the
project improvements.

                    Table 3.8. Farm Models and Expected Income Increases

                                                   Area per type          Farmers Net Income
                                                    of Model     No. of          Increase
                                                    (feddan)     farms   Year 6 (%)    NPV LE
        Mahmoudia Model 0.75 feddan (38% of area)     2,900      3,800     104           2,036
                   Model 1.5 feddan (32% of area)     15,100     10,100    106           3,950
                   Model 4 feddan (30% of area)       76,300     19100     109          10,674
        Manaifa Model 0.75 feddan (38% of area)       6,800      9,100     102           835
               Model 1.5 feddan (32% of area)         18,500     12,300    103           1,931
                Model 4 feddan (30% of area)          12,500     3,100     106           8,267
        Wasat Model 0.75 feddan (38% of area)         6,300      8,300     103           2,144
              Model 1.5 feddan (32% of area)          18,700     12,500    104           3,912
              Model 4 feddan (30% of area)            37,300     9,400     107          11,149


Farm models confirmed the positive impact of the IIP investments over beneficiaries' family
income even after cost recovery of the investments involved, but at a lower level than
foreseen at appraisal due to the fact that CF is still to be enforced in most of the project areas.
In spite of that shortcoming, the financial attractiveness of the proposed improvements, and
its impact on incomes was confirmed by the models as income increases by 2 - 4 percent in
the smaller farms averaging 0.75 feddan, and up to 7 ­ 9 percent for the larger farms
averaging 4 feddan in the improved areas.

1.2     Economic Results. The evaluation exercise with FARMOD software allowed for an
analysis at the crop/activity, representative farm models, sub project region, and farm size
levels. Water savings are expected to reach about 15% of the volume being used, equivalent
to 360 million m3 of water saved per year at project maturity. Based on the above mentioned
assumptions and assigning no economic value for the water saved, the project would still
have an ERR of 15%. The NPV at a discount rate of 12% (representing the opportunity cost
of capital) was estimated at LE 165 million (about US$29 million equivalent) as shown in
Table 3.9. An additional non-quantified benefit of the project will be greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions reductions (ERs). A 15% reduction in the volume of water pumped, the single-
point (collective) pumping sets at the mesqa's head, and the more efficient pump sets would
all contribute to reduce carbon emissions.
1.3




                                                 44

1.4
                   Table 3.9 Project Summary             ECONOMIC BUDGET (In LE '000)

                                                   IIP               Future                Percentage
                                              Investments Present    Without   Future With  Change
 Main Production
   Winter Crops                                            479,827    519,807      541,201     4
   Summer Crops                                            460,347    504,912      560,540    11
   Fruits and Vegetables                                   232,472    237,530      244,661     3
   Animal products                                         669,841    669,841      669,841     -
   By Products                                              45,477      57,815      62,300     8
 Gross Value Of Production                                1,887,965  1,989,905   2,078,543     4
 Sub-Total On-Farm Use                                      301,814    274,683     280,557     2
 Sub-Total On-Farm Consumption                              246,147   261,113      259,290     -1
 Net Value Of Production                                  1,340,004  1,454,108   1,538,696     6
 Sub-Total Purchased Consumption                             16,712     16,469      17,882     9
   INFLOWS                                                1,323,293  1,437,640   1,520,814     6
 Production Cost
   Investment Mezca Improvements & Pump sets   666,779
   Operating: Winter Crops                                  92,953    123,927      117,925     -5
               Planting materials                           40,553      58,815      59,629     1
               Summer Crops                                     10          78         406    422
               By Products                                   5,050       5,035       4,835     -4
               Fertilizers                                  80,907    108,654      111,934     3
               Agrochemicals                                78,203      79,477      78,361     -1
               Irrigation costs                            108,495    107,995       62,718    -42
               Other production costs                       86,268      79,315      73,293     -8
               Labor                                        275,206    298,931     299,227     -
   Sub-total Operating Costs                                767,644   862,227      808,328     -6
 Sub-Total Production Cost                                  767,644   862,227      808,328     -6
   Other IIP Investment Costs                  74,524             -          -       1,900     -
   OUTFLOWS                                                 767,644   862,227      810,228     -6
 Cash Flow                                                  555,649    575,413     710,586    23
 Net Economic Benefits                                      801,796    836,526     969,876    16
IRR = 15.0%, NPV = 165,182.00




                                              45

ANNEX 4: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members


             Names                           Title             Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Aizad Nawaez Khan          Task Team Leader                    MN2AG
Nejdet Al-Sahili           Principal Irrigation Engineer       MN2AG



Supervision/ICR
Usaid El-Hanbali           Sr. Irrigation Engineer             MNSRE TTL
Arbi Ben-Achour            Social Scientist                    MNSRE
Ashok Subramanian          Lead Water Inst. Dev. Specialist    MNSRE
Ayat Soliman               Environmental Specialist            MNSRE
Mohamad Usman              Agricultural Economist, Consultant
Jose Simas                 Lead Water Resources Expert         MNSRE TTL/ICR
Mohamed Safwat Youssef
Abdel-Dayem                Consultant                          MNSRE

Maiada Mahmoud Abdel Fatt
Kassem                     Consultant                          MNAFM

Hani Abdel-Kader El Sadani
Salem                      Sr. Water Resources Engineer        MNSSD

Maher Abu-Taleb            Sr. Water Resource Specialist       MNSSD
Zakia Chummun              Language Program Assistant          MNSSD
Nejdet Al-Sahili           Irrigation Engineer Consultant      MNSRE
Juan Morelli               Ag. Economist. Consultant           FAO-CP ICR
Michael Sandoz             Irrigation Eng., Consultant         FAO-CP ICR

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands
                                        No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)


Lending


  FY94                                                                  139.16
  FY95                                                                  180.26
  FY96                                                                    0.79
  FY98                                                                    3.22
                            Total:                                      323.43
Supervision/ICR
  FY95                                                                   44.84
  FY96                                                                   36.16
  FY97                                                                   52.70
  FY98                                                                   77.80
  FY99                                                                  102.12
  FY00                                           24                     113.37
  FY01                                           16                      82.80
  FY02                                           15                      64.63



                                            46

FY03                13     56.38
FY04                19     91.87
FY05                19     80.77
FY06                22    124.07
FY07                11     59.20
        Total:     139    986.71




                 47

ANNEX 5: BENEFICIARY SURVEYS AND PROPOSED WUAS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS


1. Farmers' perception of the irrigation improvement21

Continuous flow Assessment. The effective introduction of continuous flow (CF) is still
significantly lagging behind schedule (35 percent). CF was effectively applied to only 9
percent of the sample farmers in Mahmoudia when the last survey was conducted in 2005.
The assessment of farmer's acceptance of CF showed that all sample farmers in IIP areas
preferred continuous flow. The most important reasons were: (i) more convenient for
irrigation; (ii) improves equity between head and tail of branch canal; (iii) overcoming
water shortage problem; (iv) saving of time and labour for irrigation.

Crop yield comparison with and without continues flow. To asses the impact of
applying CF in improved areas on crop productivity, the yields per feddan of main
summer crops were compared to the areas with and without CF in Mahmoudia sub-
project for summer 2005 season. Yields of wheat varieties were higher with CF than
those without CF except for Sakha 69 variety. Yields of summer crops on farms with CF
were higher than those without CF. The yield increases on summer crops ranged between
11-38 percent. Further analysis is required since only 9 percent of the sample in
Mahmoudia sub-project was having CF.


Preferred type of meska improvement: When farmers were asked about the type of meska
improvement they prefer most of them (91%) in the three sub-projects answered they
prefer pipelined meskas. Farmers who preferred raised lined meskas (7.5%) were located
in Wasat and Mahmoudia sub-projects. Farmers preferred piped meskas improvement for
the following main reasons: (i) ease of operation; (ii) easier to ensure that water reaches
the tail of the meska; (iii) it takes less land; (iv) it has less seepage/water losses from
meskas; (v) it's easier to divide water between farmers for irrigation at the same time.


Improved Mekas. The study assessed also the awareness and perception of the IIP among
farmers with improved meskas in-operation. The most important benefits representing
about 73.9% of all IIP benefits appreciated from the farmer's point of view were: (i)
reduces pumping costs; (ii) reduces irrigation time; (iii) improves equity between head
and tail of meska; and (iv) prevents tail losses from low-level meskas to drains.

Operation and Maintenances (O&M). The survey also analyzed farmers' perception
toward O&M problems of improved meskas. About half (48 percent) of the farmers in
Mahmoudia reported some problems associated with the IIP. However, only 10 percent
of farmers in Manaifa complained from these problems against only 3.6% of those in
Wasat. The main reported problems of improved meskas were: (i) spare parts for pumps
not being available; (ii) difficulties in maintaining pumps; (iii) pump repair technicians
not being available; (iv) discharge from mezqa pumps not being sufficient; (v) problems
with levels along meska; and (vi) stand by pump not being available.




21Farmer Survey Study, Report No. 5, (Winter 2004/05 and summer 2005)


                                              48

Following are the main results from the farmers' perspective:

   Regarding effects of IIP improvements on cropping patterns: (i) for the winter
   2004/05 season there was an increase of long season berseem (LSB) in all three sub
   areas and of wheat in Manaifa and Mahmoudia; and (ii) an increase of rice at the
   expense cotton and maize in Wasat while at the expense of cotton, maize and
   perennial summer crops in Manaifa and Mahmoudia.

   Crop patterns varied slightly different with relative location in head, medium or tail.
   There was an increase in LSB and wheat in the medium and tail areas in Wasat and
   Mahmoudia. Rice expanded in medium areas of the improved area but decreased at
   the tail areas. Cotton and maize increased in the tail areas in both Wasat and Manaifa.

   There is a general slightly higher trend in yields obtained on improved mesqas: the
   average rice yield for the three areas increased by 8.8% from 2.85 to 3.1 tons/fed; for
   Sakha 61 and 93 wheat in Wasat yields were 1.8% and 1.2% higher than in
   unimproved areas respectively. In Manaifa, short season berseem (SSB) and Sakha 61
   wheat yield differences were 0.6% 2.5% respectively.

   To asses the impact on crop productivity of CF regime in improved areas, yields of
   main crops were compared with areas without CF in Mahmoudia. Wheat yields were
   higher with CF except with Sakha 69 variety and yield of all summer crops on farms
   with CF were higher than those without it. The increase in yield of summer crops
   ranged between 11-38%. Further analysis is needed since only 9 percent of the 2005
   study sample was under the CF regime.

   In improved areas, there is a general downward trend in the use of low water quality as
   only canal water was used for irrigation in Manaifa. However, in Wasat and
   Mahmoudia canal water was also the main source used but still 10% of total number of
   irrigations depended on drainage water.

   Water shortage and length of irrigation period are still common problems facing
   farmers in both unimproved and improved areas because of the delays in introducing
   of CF especially in Mahmoudia. However, these problems seem to be less severe in
   improved areas.

   Awareness and perception of the IIP was also analyzed. The main benefits from the
   farmer's perspective were: (i) reduction of pumping costs; (ii) reduction of irrigation
   labor time; (iii) equity improvement between head and tail of mesqas; (iv) prevention
   of tail losses from low-level mesqas to drains; (v) convenience for irrigation; and (vi)
   reduction of masqa maintenance cost. Annex 5 summarizes some other farmers'
   perceptions of improvements according to the survey.

   The main problems of improved mesqas were from their perspective some difficulties
   to maintain pumps: repair guys and pumps spare parts unavailable and insufficient
   pumps discharge capacity.

   Most farmers (91%) prefer pipelined mesqas for the following reasons: ease of
   operation, higher security that water reaches the tail of mesqas, and less land and
   seepage / water losses from mesqas.




                                          49

Scoring for Water Users' Association Performance Indicators

The proposed WUA Performance Indicators shall be used to assess the performances of
each WUA on an annual basis, whereby the WUA can score 0, 1 or 2 points on each
performance indicator. The overall score as well as the total scores for institutional,
financial and technical performance indicators are an indication of the level of
performance of the WUA with regard to the O&M of the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure and its own functioning.


        Performance Indicator                   Calculation                       Scoring
No
     Institutional
 1   WUA membership ratio          WUA members as % of total          2 = > 50%
                                   number of water users in command   1 = 25 ­ 50%
                                   area (CA)                          0 = < 25%
 2   Female WUA membership         Female WUA members as %            2 = > 50%
     ratio                         of total number of female          1 = 25 ­ 50%
                                   water users in CA                  0 = < 25%
 3   Representation of tail-end    Number of members of Board of      2 =  33%
     water users in Board of       Management from tail-end of CA     1 = < 33%
     Management in irrigation      as % of total number of members    0 = not represented
     scheme                        of Board of Management
 4   Annual General Meetings of    Number of AGM held in last         2 = one every 2 months
     General Body                  financial year                     1 = only one per year
                                                                      0 = no
 5   Regular meetings of Board     Number of meetings held during     2 = one every 2 months
     of Management                 last financial year                1 = < one each 2 months
                                                                      0 =
 6   Preparation of minutes of     Minutes of meetings made           2 = always
     meetings of General Body                                         1 = irregularly
     and Board of Management                                          0 = never
 7   Elections of members of       Elections for members of Board of  2 = yes
     Board of Management           Management timely                  0 = no
 8   Written set of Internal Rules Internal Rules & Regulations       2 = approved
     & Regulations                 prepared and approved by General   1 = non-approved
                                   Body                               0 = none
 9   Communication between         WUA uses board and notices to      2 = yes
     WUA and water users           inform water users                 0 = no
10   Enforcement of sanctions      Sanctions are enforced by WUA      2 = yes wthout RA assistance
                                                                      1 = yes with RA assistance
                                                                      0 = no
11   Resolution of internal water- Number of resolved internal        2 = > 75%
     related conflicts             conflicts as % of number of        1 = 50 ­ 75%
                                   reported internal conflicts        0 = < 50%
12   Level of facilities           Fully equipped office and adequate 2 = yes
                                   transport                          1 = only equipped office
                                                                      0 = none
13   Employment of Water           Duration of employment of Water    2 = > __ months/year
     Masters                       Masters during last financial year 1 = < __ months/year
                                                                      0 = none
Sub-Total Score
     Financial




                                                50

        Performance Indicator                   Calculation                         Scoring

14   Full payment of Water          Number of water users having paid    2 = > 90%
     charges                        Water charges before end of          1 = 50 ­ 90%
                                    financial year as % total number of  0 = < 50%
                                    water users due to pay
15   Water charge collection        Collected Water charges as % total   2 = > 80%
     performance                    amount of Water charges assessed     1 = 50 ­ 80%
                                                                         0 = < 50%
16   Cost of Water charges          Cost of Water charges collection     2 = < 15%
     collection                     as % of amount of Water charges      1 = 15 ­ 30%
                                    collected                            0 = > 30%
17   Emergency and Reserve          Amount deposited in Emergency &      2 =  10% of paid W charges
     Fund                           Reserve Fund divided by CA           1 = 10% of paid W charges
                                                                         0 = < 10% of paid Wcharges
18   Approval of WUA Business       WUA Business Plan has been           2 = prepared and approved
     Plan                           prepared and approved by General     1 = prepared / not approved
                                    Body                                 0 = not prepared
19   Approval of Annual Balance     Annual Balance Sheet prepared and    2 = prepared and approved
     Sheet                          approved by General Body             1 = prepared / not approved
                                                                         0 = not prepared
20   Financial Audit of WUA         WUA account approved by              2 = unconditional approval
                                    auditors                             1 = conditional approval
                                                                         0 = no audit conducted/approv.
21   Submission of WUA account      Accounts are submitted to RA in      2 = submitted in time
     to RA                          time by WUA                          1 = submitted but not in time
                                                                         0 = not submitted
Sub-Total Score
     Technical
22   Preparation and publication    Water distribution/rotation plans    2 = prepared and published
     of water distribution and      are prepared and published by        1 = prepared but not published
     irrigation schedule            WUA                                  0 = not prepared
23   Irrigated area as proportion   Irrigated area as % of total         2 = > 90%
     of assessed/cropped CA         assessed/ cropped CA                 1 = 80 ­ 90%
                                                                         0 = < 80%
24   Efficiency of water supply     Supplied volume of                   2 = > 90%
     per acre of irrigated/cropped  irrigation water per                 1 = 80% - 90%
     CA                             irrigated/cropped acre CA as         0 = < 80%
                                    % of allocated water volume
25   Equitable supply of irrigation Irrigated area in tail-end of CA     2 = > 90%
     water within CA                as % of irrigated area in head-end   1 = 70 ­ 90%
                                    of CA                                0 = < 70%
26   Implementation of annual       Annual maintenance inspection is     2 = yes
     maintenance inspection         conducted during last financial year 0 = no
27   Preparation and approval of    Annual maintenance plan prepared     2 = prepared and approved
     annual maintenance plan        and approved by General Body         1 = prepared but not approved
                                                                         0 = not prepared
28   Maintenance expenditures as    Maintenance expenditures per acre    2 = > 90%
     ration of maintenance budget   CA as % of maintenance budget        1 = 75% - 90%
                                                                         0 = < 75%
29   Maintenance cost to revenue    Maintenance expenditures as % of     2 = > 80%
     ratio                          collected revenue collected          1 = 70 ­ 80%
                                                                         0 = < 70%
30   Operational capacity of        Actual conveyance capacity           2 = > 90%
     distribution system in         as % of designed                     1 = 80 ­ 90%
     irrigation scheme              conveyance capacity                  0 = < 80%




                                                51

       Performance Indicator              Calculation                   Scoring

31   Capital works executed    Actual capital expenditures    2 = > 80%
     according to approved WUA as % of planned capital        1 = 60% - 80%
                               expenditures specified in      0 = < 60%
                               WUA Business Plan

Sub-Total Score

TOTAL SCORE




                                          52

             ANNEX 6: STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

No Stakeholder workshop was held.




                                    53

      ANNEX 7: SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

Introduction


Egypt is one of the developing countries that expect facing a serious water crisis very soon.
This is due to its limited water resources represented mainly by its fixed allocation of the
Nile River water (about 55.5 milliards cubic meter per year according to the 1959 Water
Agreement with Sudan), and in view of the increase of water demand as a result of the rapid
growth of population, social changes, and the agricultural & industrial growth.

Egypt had no other opportunities but to have the initiative in formulating water resources
strategies and policies due to its geographic location as the most downstream country in the
Nile Basin and because of its limited rainfall resources. The policy's overall objective is to
utilize the available conventional and non-conventional water resources to meet the socio-
economic and environmental needs of the country and bridge the gap between supply and
demand. The formulated policy focuses on the following major aspects:

    1- Demand management by achieving the optimal use of available water resources
        through minimization of water losses, irrigation improvement projects, cost recovery,
        cropping pattern reform, groundwater development strategies, reuse of agricultural
        drainage water,

    2. Water Resources development through increasing the Egypt's share of the Nile water
        (Upper Nile projects such as Jongli Canal), distillation of        ground water and
        harvesting rainfall,

    3. Environmental conservation through Separating domestic and industrial sewage from
        agricultural drainage, treatment of domestic sewage, enforcement of water quality law
        to industrial facilities, reducing fertilizer and pesticide usage in cultivation, and
        monitoring surface water and groundwater quality,

Irrigation Management Improvement Stages

To bridge the gap between the limited water supply and the increasing demand, through the
efficient use of the available water resources, the EWUP Project conducted and financed by
USAID as a research project took place during the period between 1977 until 1983.
According to the projects' results, the Egyptian government represented by the Ministry of
Water Resources & Irrigation (MWRI) has started a national program for improving
irrigation management in the old areas located within the valley and the Delta. This national
program constitutes a well- identified framework including the major project requirements
and specific components for implementing improvement of the system management covering
an area of 3.5 million feddans by year 2017. A physical system commenced in 1984 through
USAID financed improvement project covering an area of 65,000 feddans including the
branch canal level and the tertiary level. It was finished by year 1996.




                                              54

The second stage began physically in the year 1997. It is a $182 million investment to
improve the existing irrigation system in 248,000 feddans of land in the northern part of the
Nile Delta in Behira and Kafr El-Sheikh Governorates, with co-financing provided by the
World Bank for reconstruction and development, International Development Association
(IDA) as well as the German Kredetanstall Fur Wiederaufban (KFW). It was planned to
complete the physical works by the end of year 2005.

The third stage of the national program for improvement began in 2003/2004 and still within
the preparation phase. According to the lessons learnt and the cumulative experiences, it
was found that the improvement should consider the integration for different components of
irrigation infrastructure (irrigation, drainage, IIP and ground water resources for irrigation
management).

Hence the 3rd stage is called Integrated Irrigation Improvement Project (IIIMP) as it would
conduct the project considering the integration of water management understanding to cover
500,000 feddans in five command areas with an objective of completing what had been
begun in WB, IDA, KFW financed stage. It is planned that the IIIMP would build on the
IIP but will adjust broad and integrated actions to reduce the distribution inequities and
water losses, decrease the supply reliability and increase the operational flexibility, reduce
the overall demands and increase the crop yields and farmers' incomes.

IIP Main Activities

The Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP) as one of the means of achieving optimal use of
water resources in cultivation and the maximum agricultural productivity per feddan would
also overcome the water distribution problems among farmers. The project main activities
constitute of the following:

    1. Improvement of the water delivery system in main & branch canals through installing
        new regulating structures (DS control gates) on branch canals, together with the
        applying the continuous flow instead of rotations, channel protection, telemetry
        system to allow centralized remote control of regulators on main canals.

    2. Modernization of irrigation infrastructure at tertiary or mesqa level through
        installation of a collective pumping station at the head of each mesqa (single point
        lifting), high level mesqas (raised, or low pressure buried pipelines).

    3. The Establishment of the Irrigation advisory services (IAS) in project area to provide
        technical support & training for the WUAs at mesqa and branch canal level in
        operation and maintenance of improved mesqas.

    4. Formulation of an environmental program to evaluate the project environmental
        impacts.

    5. An On-farm irrigation management program to improve farmers' irrigation practices
        and water use efficiency.



                                              55

    6. Institutional support to IIP for project implementation including staff training,
        consultancy services, facilities and equipment.

Figure (1) A layout of the project area under the different stages of implementation:

              Error! Objects cannot be created from editing field codes.

IIP Main Objectives

The main objectives of the irrigation improvement project are listed in the following points:

Increase the agricultural production and the farm income by improving the irrigation
infrastructure, a more equitable distribution of water, and improving on-farm water
management.

    1. Improve the long-term sustainability of irrigation through the assumption of
        responsibility for operation and maintenance at the tertiary level by farmers, cost
        sharing arrangement for tertiary level investment costs.

    2. Strengthen the institutional planning and implementation capacity of MWRI within
        the irrigation Sector.




                                             56

Some of the Project Achievements

Improvement of delivery system for main & secondary canals:

Within the project life, delivery designs for 68 branch and sub-branch canals (134 km
length) serving 210,000 feddans were completed. This included 116 downstream control
gates and 39 discharge control distributors, with associated regulators that require about
56,000 m3 of R.C., 39,000 m3 for masonry pitching, and 190,000 m3 of earth works for
canal modeling.

Mesqa Improvement

A design of About 2,263 km of mesqas (91 % of the SAR) is made. At start, estimations
were such that 60% of the mesqas to be pipelines, and 40% for lined. Such distribution did
not agree with the farmers' preference of the pipelines. Therefore, the final designs were
made for 2127 km (94 %) for pipelines (2,785 mesqas) and 136 km (6%) for elevated (150
mesqas). Instead of installment of single pump in each, IIS prefer installing multiple pumps
with various sizes to meet changes in seasonal water requirements and cropping pattern,
therefore the number of pump-sets became 5906 pump-sets (twice envisaged at SAR)

Irrigation Advisory Services

It was established as one of the IIP components to provide technical assistance & training for
the WUAs at mesqa and branch canal level in the field of operation and maintenance of
improved mesqas. The main objective of the IAS is to facilitate the WUA's participation at
the different levels of work (before, during and after construction) in addition to solving
conflicts among farmers.      IAS with the WUAs succeeded to operate more than 3500
improved meskas. IAS formulates about 65 Bc WUAs covering all the improved branch
canals.

The irrigation and drainage law number 12/1984 was amended to include the establishment
of meskas improvement and maintenance monetary fund to be responsible for cost recovery
program. This program is considered as a vital issue for the IIP sustainability since part of
the cost required for extending the irrigation improvement works in the Delta and the Valley
will be provided through the cost recovery of the already improved meskas by the WUAs
contribution. A Ministerial decree has determined the basis of estimating and repaying work
costs of improved meskas, besides the method of presenting it to beneficiaries, the opposing
procedures and respective administrations that will collect the money and deposit it in the
meskas improvement and maintenance account fund, in both old and new lands. It was
estimated that the construction costs of improved irrigation network will be paid either in
cash or on annual installments not exceeding twenty years according to farmers' repaying
abilities, whereas the repayment costs of pump-set supply and installation will be over the
first three years.




                                             57

After implementing the developed irrigation works in the area, the respective irrigation
department will determine the total costs of establishing a developed irrigation network, the
costs for each WUA, the cost per feddan, and the cost for each beneficiary. A list of cost
shares per beneficiary will be displayed for at least two weeks (after being announced in
Elwakae Elmasrya newspaper) at the agricultural co-operatives mayor offices, local police
stations, mosques, and WUAs headquarters. Concerned beneficiaries will have the right to
oppose the estimated costs within 30 days following the display.

Beneficiaries' oppositions will be summated to the Public Irrigation Administration where a
judgment will be made by a committee chaired by the general director/his deputy,
representatives of the agricultural administration, survey department, agricultural Co-
operative, irrigation engineer, and WUAs as member, consequently, the committee decision
is final. The Irrigation Improvement Administration will deliver a statement to all respective
entities to collect land tax, including areas and basins covered by irrigation networks,
implemented by the Ministry, and the amount per feddan to be paid within the dates
determined to collect land tax, and deposited in the account of irrigation canals development
and maintenance fund.

The Cost recovery program has started by the end of the year 2003 with very low rates of
collecting money due to the lack of communication between the land tax departments and the
Irrigation Improvement department. But at the beginning of 2005, the Minister of finance
and the Minister of water resources approved offering the people of land Tax departments an
incentive of 2.5% form the total amount of money collected. This made a significant change
and increased the figures of the collected money. It is expected to have a great increase in
the rates of collecting money during the coming period due to the approval of the Minster of
Water Resources and Irrigation in last February to increase the incentive of the land tax to
3% of the collected money.

The following table presents the estimated amount of money to be collected and the actual
amount collected in the IIP project area in Middle and West Delta until the end of April 2007.
It shows that we are still far from the targeted amounts but according to the attached chart, it
is clear that the trend is going up and the rate of collection is increasing which means that the
program will have better performance in the following years.

    Directorate         Estimated amount to be      Actual amount collected      Percentage (%)
                        collected till April 2007        till April 2007
West Delta                    9,229,871.89                 3,586914.19              38.86%
Middle Delta                  7,574,687.73                2,783,828.99              36.75%




                                               58

                 Cost Recovery for Mesqas in IIP (World Bank Project)

       7,000,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37
       6,000,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7,
       5,000,000                                                                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5,


                                                                                                                                                                                                 8

       4,000,000                                                                                                                                                                                  96
                                                                                                                                                                                405,                9,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      96
    EL                                                                                                                                                         259                                      3,
                                                                                                                                                                                    611,3
       3,000,000                                                                                                                                                  27,2
                                                                                                                                                                      3,

                                                                                                                                               063,
       2,000,000
                                                                                                                              9

                                                                                            796,             221,                                  173,2
                                                                                                                               78
                                                                                                                                 05,5

       1,000,000                                                                                151,1            390,1               1,


                                                                             1
                                                                              40

              0           829,         380,        643,          732,           6,
                                                                                  35
                              58
                  04    04           0462              73            76
                                                 04            05           05            05               05               06               06              06               06               07              07
                 20    20         l,20          20            20         r,20            20               20               20               20              20               20               20              20
             Feb,    r,                                                               ly,                                                                ly,                                                r,
                    Ap           Ju         Oct,          Jan,          Ap           Ju               Oct,             Jan,             Apr,            Ju               Oct,             Jan,             Ap




Design changes

As the cost of improvement works increased and reached L.E 6,000 per feddan, a new design
criteria was taken into consideration. A command area at the tail-end reach of Meet Yazid
canal (W10-area) was selected as pilot to test the effect of several recommended technical
and managerial changes on the application of the continuous flow, irrigation cost & time,
agricultural productivity, and farmer's income with a main objective of decreasing the cost of
irrigation improvement per feddan. These changes include using automated sluice gates
regulators instead of DS control regulators, smaller pipe diameters & pump capacity, more
pump operation time per day, marwas improvement and using electric pumps instead of
diesel pumps. It is intended to adopt those mentioned changes related to delivery, mesqa and
marwa, design, control and operation in IIP2 and the IIIMP project.

Evaluation of the borrower's own performance

The IIS staff in cooperation with the IS staff, the IAS, and the MALR have done their best
during the different stages of the project to let the IIP1 perform well, achieve its goals with
the best results. But the IIP1 is an ambitious project related to the Egyptian irrigation system
which is very complicated and is considered to be a multi-dimensional system that involves
social, institutional, technical and managerial aspects.                                                                               Therefore, the project faced some
problems during its preparation stage as it was very hard to forecast the constraints and
implications of some of the proposed interventions such as the continuous flow regimes.

During the implementation stage, there was somewhat a delay in implementing some
contracts concerning the improvement measures aiming at the introduction of continuous
flow at branch canal level. Part of this delay was outside the implementing agency control
due to the change in the world prices leading to the increase of the cost of materials used in
the implementation of IIP works, or due to the farmers' initial resistance to accept the new IIP
concepts and interventions. Some of the delay was due to the limited capacity of the
contractors themselves towards the size of the contract and the huge amount of its included
works.




                                                                                     59

During the operation stage, there were some problems concerning the means of controlling of
water distribution in the branch canals through the downstream control gates due to the
farmers' tampering and the accumulation of garbage in front of and under the gates impeding
their free operation and reducing the passing flow. The great increase in the areas cultivated
by rice was one of the problems faced by the government and participated in preventing
applying the continuous flow efficiently as it is still controlled in a manner similar to
rotational supply according to the beneficiaries' demand. Hence, it is difficult to assess the
impact of IIP on achieving its goals such as the possible water savings as it should be
assessed at the sub-project level not at the branch canal level, in addition, it will take some
time after complete application of the continuous flow in the whole sub-project before the
impacts materialise and become tangible. It was obvious that the role of WUOs at branch
canal level is equally important in organising and enforcing pump operation schedules.
Anyhow, the economic and the financial analysis of the IIP1 showed that it was feasible with
an internal rate of return of about 18 % as mentioned page 29 in the ex-post financial and
economic analysis report prepared by the agriculture economic consultant.

Regarding the objectives of the project which were defined at the beginning, they were
appropriate, reasonable and in line with the government objectives. It can be noticed that the
project was successful to some extent in achieving its goals as it improved the irrigation and
drainage services. From the results of the monitoring and evaluation program, there is good
evidence that equity of water distribution between the head and the tail of branch canals
improves. There is also good evidence that having single lifting point at the head of meska,
reduced labour, time and cost for irrigation purposes in improved areas and also reduced the
maintenance cost. Having less number of pumps also reduced the carbon emissions leading
to have a positive environmental effect.

The project participated in improving the environmental conditions in the improved areas and
decreasing the water related diseases due to moving to pipelines meskas instead of open
uncovered ones and as a result of reducing the informal reuse of drainage water for irrigation.

The project helped to reduce poverty in beneficiary population by increasing the farmers'
income. This was achieved through increasing the agricultural production, land saving and
decreasing the cost of irrigation and maintenance. There is a difference in yields between
improved and unimproved areas of between 6-40 % depending on crop and variety. There is
also evidence of increase in rice, berseem areas in improved areas. The yield for all summer
crops was higher in improved areas compared to unimproved areas. For example the average
rice yield for the three sub-projects increased with 8.8 % from 2.85 to 3.1 ton/feddan, and the
cotton yield increased with 4.5% from 6.6 to 6.9 qintar/feddan. Also, the yield for all winter
crops except berseem was higher in improved areas compared to unimproved areas. The
average crop yield for the three sub-projects increased with 4 to 12%.

Egypt's policy on cost sharing arrangements, establishing Water Boards, and promotion of
mesqa-level management in the field of operation and maintenance works done by Water
Users' Groups is considered to be a major step forward in the institutional reform field. It
helps achieving the decentralization concept which lets the MWRI gets rid of some of its
burdens and changes its role from the operational role to the strategic and supervision one



                                             60

represented in planning for national policy. Applying the cost recovery concept will ensure
the sustainability of the IIP as the money collected would be used in extending the irrigation
improvement works in other areas in the Delta and the Valley

The MWRI being interested in testing the technical and managerial changes related to
delivery, mesqa and marwa, design, control and operation in W10 area as a pilot area, it
financed the study from its local budget.

A proposal about assessing flow characteristics of main canals in improved command areas
is currently studied to get a complete description of the flow distribution in main canals
which would help understanding different factors that adversely affect the implementation of
the continuous flow and determining water consumption in improved and unimproved areas
separately

Evaluation of the bank performance to the borrower

        The consultants worked in close collaboration with the IIS staff and provided them
with all possible technical assistance in the different fields concerning planning, designing
and implementing the different activities of the irrigation improvement project.

        The bank stopped bidding new contracts for implementing IIP1 works for one year
which caused somewhat a delay in the implementation of the IIP1

        There was a great cooperation between the IIS staff and the World Bank staff but
changing the World Bank staff from time to time caused somewhat a delay in the procedures
of obtaining the no-objection for some of the disbursements.

        The German Financial Cooperation with Egypt is appreciated. It has provided
additional funds to measure the impact of IIP on a grant basis with a view of complementing
funds mobilized by MWRI.

        There was a quick response from the KfW side to the IIS request to raise its
contribution in the co-financing of the cost of the M&E additional services from 57 % to
70 %. This was very helpful to implement the M&E components.

        The donor facilitated the procedures of purchasing all the necessary equipment
required for implementing and evaluating the Irrigation Improvement Project.

        Mid-term missions of consultants took place to help reviewing and integrating the
results of the different components of the M&E IIP program and assist in preparing M&E
workshop for IIP workshop presentations
.
        The KfW was interested in disseminating the results of the monitoring & evaluation
IIP impact among decision makers and all concerned people who were invited to workshops
financed by the KfW.




                                            61

Lessons learnt & action taken towards them

    With regard to the continuous flow and innovations
It is essential to study carefully the alternatives of the down stream control gates (Avio-Avis)
as a control mean of water distribution system in branch canals. Those alternatives are
applied in W10 area in Kafr Elshiekh governorate as a pilot area. The first one is the
automation system where the discharges are measured automatically by ultrasonic equipment
installed at the vertical gates. The second one is to control the water levels downstream the
main gates automatically and controlling the discharges by weirs or distributors.

Main and branch canal physical and operational arrangements for implementing the
continuous flow regimes are preferable to be established in parallel with or in advance of
meska improvement programs as applied now in w10 area in Sefsafa branch canal using the
new design criteria.

    For achieving cost effectiveness and controlling costs escalation
Training was given in the different fields (design, implementation, irrigation advisory
services,.....etc.....) to get effective design intervention, technology transfer, A great
attention was paid to benefit from the private consulting offices, institutes of the national
water research centre and foreign experts specialized in the improvement works to apply the
modern technology .

Negotiations with local suppliers for provision of desired materials and equipment for the
design process and improvement works took place in the preparation stage of the preliminary
contracts and regular visits are made to factories that produce the materials and equipment
required by the project (pumps, gates, valves and pipes) to ensure both technical suitability
and cost effectiveness

Participation of the WUAs in the planning, preliminary design process is very important prior
to finalizing intervention designs to develop technical options, more benefits and less cost

All the design works were done during the period 1997 till 2000, but according to the world
bank request many modifications and were made to the original design to have the new
design criteria to be applied in w10 area. This consumed a long period of time.

    Concerning the improvement of the contractor performance and reducing the
    implementation delays
A prequalification list of contractors was prepared and updated regularly. Companies names
whose performance was poor were excluded according to certain evaluation principles and
regulations agreed upon by the funding agencies.

Contract packages are made small enough for the private sector contractors to manage
comfortably

    With regard to developing sustainable O&M and organizational arrangements



                                               62

Training programs were prepared by the IAS and the MALR to train the farmers and the
WUAs on the operation and maintenance works and the on-farm component. Irrigation
schedule between marwas is currently prepared by the MALR.

   Concerning the coordination, priorities for implementation, O&M, extension and
   production
Procurement processes are standardized, time-effective and transparent, according to the
World Bank rules.

May 30, 2007




                                         63

    ANNEX 8: COMMENTS OF CO-FINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


KfW shares largely the main findings and conclusions of the ICR. This pertains to the
assessment of the achieved outcomes, the implementation problems and the major risks. We
regard the incapability of the big state owned civil works contractors to execute their
contracts properly and the insufficient and late involvement of the Irrigation Sector (IS) of
MWRI by the Irrigation Improvement Sector (IIS) as the main deficiencies of IIP.
Concerning the institutional weaknesses of MWRI we would like to point out that the lack to
merge CD-IAS and IIS-IAS led (and continues to lead) to substantial problems with respect
to post-implementation assistance and support to WUA. In this same context, we are
skeptical as regards the recommendation developed in the section Developing Sustainable
O&M Organizations and Arrangements "to put in place and activate firm and suitable
arrangements for continuing technical and administrative support to the WUAs, either by
CD-IAS or by a suitable entity or unit within MALR's extension department." We agree that
there is a need to improve the existing institutional setup for WUA, but we believe that this
would best be done through CD-IAS. CD-IAS has a clear mandate for providing such
support to WUA, and the various problems encountered so far are first of all "in-house" in
the MWRI and should thus be solved by this Ministry. There is a high risk that transferring
this task to another ministry (MALR) might contribute to further inter-ministerial
coordination problems.

The overall outcome rating as "moderately satisfactory" seems to us very critical. We fully
agree with the detailed ratings for the different project components, but we like to point out
the fact that the main project component aiming at tertiary irrigation canal development and
meska improvement has been very successful and has rightly been rated by the World Bank
as "satisfactory". Since this component absorbed almost 70 % of total project costs, and
scored some 75 % of the total contribution to the project's development objectives, a
generally higher rating of the project outcomes as "satisfactory" seems to be justified.

In addition we believe that the main benefit of the IIP was the creation of an infrastructure
which allows securing the irrigation agriculture in the Nile Delta mainly for small scale
farmers also in years of short water supply. Luckily there were no years of extremely short
water supply during the recent past. That is why the comparison of yields of areas with IIP
improvements and without such improvement could not show the full benefit of the Project at
the moment.




                                            64

                    ANNEX 9: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

· Staff Appraisal Report (Report Number 13454-EGT). Irrigation Improvement Project,
  December 1, 1994

· Development Credit Agreement (Credit number 2672 EGT). Irrigation Improvement Project,
  November 27, 1995

· Loan Agreement (Loan number 3832 EGT). Irrigation Improvement Project, November 27,
  1995

· Supervision Missions' Aide Memoirs from 1995 to 2006

· Mid Term Review Report. Irrigation Improvement Project, April, 2000

· Project Appraisal Document. Integrated Irrigation Improvement and Management Project,
  April 7, 2005

· Integrated Water Resources Management Plan, MWRI, June 2005

· Irrigation Improvement Project 2, March, 2006

· Farmers Surveys. M&E of the IIP (Several Reports)

· Pumps Operation Studies (POS). M&E of the IIP (Several Reports)

· Canal and Drain Monitoring Studies (CDMS) (Several Reports)

· Water Quality Studies (May 2002 to March 2005) (Several Reports)

· Report on Assessment of Automatic Gates and Continuous Flow. Irrigation Improvement
  Project. Mott MacDonald / Sabbour Associates, June 2006

· Financial Monitoring and Irrigation Service. Satisfaction of Water User Associations
  (WUAs), Gamal M. Ayad. October 2004

· Supply of Satellite Images for the Purpose of Land Use Mapping. WaterWatch. Draft Final
  Report, December 2006.

· Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report. Ex post financial and Economic
  Analysis. Irrigation Improvement Project. Jurgen Blanken. March 2007..

· Preliminary Findings of Monitoring Farmers' Perceptions in the IIIMP Pilot Area (W10).
  Dalia Gouda, February 2007

· Country Assistance Strategy for The Arab Republic of Egypt for the Period FY06-FY09
  IBRD and IFC, May 20, 2005, Middle East and North Africa Region

· Detailed Note regarding the IIP. June 2007.



                                         65

 MAPS




66

67

68

