                                     Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.: 38108




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                       INDIA

     STATES' ROADINFRASTRUCTUREDEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL
                             ASSISTANCEPROJECT
                           (SCL-41140AND PPFB2240)


                               NOVEMBER 29,2006




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Indian Rupees (INR)

1995                     US$1.oo                  INR32.8
1996                     US$1.oo                  INR35.4
1997                     US$l-00                  INR36.6
1998                     US$1.oo                  INR41.5
1999                     US$l.OO                  INR43.1
2000                     US$l.OO                  INR45.1
2001                     US$l.OO                  INR47.3
2002                     US$l.OO                  INR48.5
2003                     US$l.oo                  INR46.3
2004                     US$l.OO                  INR45.1

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADB             Asian Development Bank
AP              Andra Pradesh
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DEA             Department o f Economic Affairs (of the Ministry o f Finance)
GO1             Government o f India
ICR             ImplementationCompletion Report
I D S           Institutional Development Strategy
IEG             IndependentEvaluationGroup
MOP             Memorandum of the President
N H S           NationalHighway System
OED             Operations Evaluation Department
PBM             PerformanceBased Maintenance
PPF             Project Preparation Facility o f the World Bank
PMMS            Pavement and Maintenance Management System
PPAR            Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PWD             Public Works Department
RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
RDB             RoadData Bank
R&R             Resettlement and Rehabilitation
S A R           StaffAppraisal Report
SRID             States' RoadInfrastructureDevelopment
TA              Technical Assistance
TOR             Terms o f Reference



FiscalYear

Government:              April 1-March31

Director-General,Evaluation                               : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup, WorldBank           : Mr. AjayChhibber
Manager,Sector,Thematic andGlobalEvaluationDivision       : Mr.AlainBarbu
TaskManager                                               : Mr.PeterFreeman

                                                              1




   IED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectiveness through excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
      The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
first,to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results, and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies, and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGannuallyassesses about 25 percentof the
Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are innovative,
large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations;those for which Executive
Directorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and thosethat are likely to generate important lessons.
The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluationstudies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, IEG staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
IEGstudies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEGare suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEGwebsite:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievementof development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                             vi1

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................       xi

1. Background           ..................................................................................................................    1

2 ProjectDesignandImplementation
 .                                                                ........................................................................... 2

3 EvaluationFindings and Ratings
 .                                                            ............................................................................... 6

4 ConclusionsandLessons
 .                                             ...........................................................................................   13

5 LessonsLearned
 .                             .........................................................................................................     14

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................    15

Borrower Comments                 .......................................................................................................    17




This reportwas preparedby Hernan Levy (assistedby RamachandraJammi). who assessedthe projectin
September2005 RomaynePereiraprovidedadrmnistrativesupport
                 .                                                                          .


                                                        V



PrincipalRatings
                                        ICR*                    ICR Review*                       PPAR
Outcome                              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Sustainability                          Likely                      Likely                        Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment               Modest                    Substantial                     Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                     Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                  Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletion Report(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivisionof the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediateIndependent EvaluationGroup (OED) productthat seeksto independentlyverify the
findingsof the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Project                           Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/          CountryDirector
                                                                    Sector Director
  Appraisal                           Ernst Huning               Jean-Francois Bauer             EdwardLim
  Completion                        Alok Nath Bansal                Guang Z. Chen                EdwardLim


                                             vii


Preface

This isthe ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) preparedby the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) for the India States' Road Infrastructure Development Technical
Assistance Project (SCL-41140, PPFB-P2230). The loanwas approved on December 5,
1996 for an amount o fUS$51.5 million equivalent. The participating state governments
were to provide an additionalUS$17.0 millionequivalent, andthe Government o fIndia
an additionalUS$0.5 million. The Borrower was the Government o f India, and the
ImplementingAgency was the Department of Economic Affairs o fthe Ministryo f
Finance. The 16participating state governments (Andra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat,
Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, MadhyaPradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Orissa,
Rajasthan, TamilNadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal) were also partners. The
loanbecame effective onFebruary 14, 1997 and closed on schedule on December 31,
2001, with an amount ofUS$7.7 millionundisbursed that was canceled.

Theproject was chosen for assessmentbecause itwas instrumental inpreparinga
pipeline of subsequentBank roadprojects, which ledto amajor increase inBanklending
for state roadprojects. It is also to be usedas a case studyinthe IEGTransport Review
currently inpreparation.

IEGprepared this report based on an examinationo fthe relevantMemorandum o fthe
President, ImplementationCompletionReport, legal agreements, project files and
archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers. Discussions
were heldwith Bank staffinboth WashingtonDC andinIndia. An IEGfield mission
visited IndiainSeptember 2005, conducted site visits, anddiscussed both the project and
the effectiveness o f Bank assistance with relevant officials and stakeholders. A PPAR
workshop attendedby officials from five states was heldinDelhi on September 6,2005.
The missionappreciates the courtesies and attentiongivenby these interlocutors as well
as the support providedby the Bank's office inDelhi.

Thereport has been discussedwith the Government o fIndiaand concerned State
Governments (see Annex B) but does not necessarily bear their approval for all its
contents, especially where the Bank has stated itsjudgements/opinions/policy
recommendations.

                                             x i


Summary

The India States'Road Infrastructure Development TechnicalAssistance Project
(SRID-TA) was approvedbythe Bankin 1996 andcompletedin2001, on schedule.
The project was conceived inthe context o f a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that
emphasized continued reform inkey sectors, including infrastructure. The project was
designed at a time when Indiawas growing at 6-7 percent per year (growth has
accelerated since 2000), causing a strong increase inthe demand for road transport,
andleadingthe government to put increased emphasis onimprovingandexpanding
boththenationalandthe states' roadnetworks.

The project's overall objective was to assist participating states inthe preparationo f
highpriority roadinvestments andto promote the carrying out o fpolicy reforms in
the provision, financing and maintenance o froadinfrastructure, while assisting inthe
preparation o froad investments aimed at Bank financing.

The project's performance monitoring indicators divided the project objectives into
three areas:

         Support reform for the planning, financing, provision, maintenance and
        management o f roadinfrastructureby the states' road agencies;

         Support preparation of major roadinfrastructureproposals for Bank financing,
        aimed at improved efficiency of states' roadnetworks; and

        Assist states towards increasedprivatizationo froad engineering, construction,
        works supervision and maintenance inthe sector.

The outcome o ftheproject is rated Satisfactory. The main objectivewas achieved.
Sixteen states endedup meeting entry conditions andbecame participants inthe
project, compared to15 potential candidate states identified at appraisal. Targets were
achieved and surpassedinall three areas with performance indicators, althoughthere
was a wide variation among states. At the same time, most targets were modest and
not especially difficult to achieve. Progress onprivatization, mainly through
outsourcing, was uneven, and inseveral states necessary improvements in
administrativecapacity to supervise outsourced outputs were lacking. The TA project
ledto approvalbythe Bank of sevennew stateroadprojects for atotal o fUS$2.2
billion. Several other projects preparedwith assistance from the TA project are
currently under consideration by the Bank, and other projects whose preparationwas
assistedby the TA project were financedby other agencies.

Institutional development i s rated Modest. Activities related to institutional
development were carried out, but they were intendedto helpprepare institutional
development changes rather than carry out reforms. The activities included studies
aimed at introducingthe states' road agencies to new methods andtechnologies, and
setting the basis for the introductiono f reforms inthe management o f these agencies
at a later stage. Insome areas, especially on social assessments and the preparationof
resettlement action plans (RAP), there was reluctance on the part o f the states to

                                             xii


adopt Bank guidelines. While this has improved duringimplementationo f follow-on
roadprojects, it i s still an areawhere the implementingagencies believe that Bank
guidelines are inappropriate for local conditions.

Sustainability i s rated Likely. A key indicator o f the project's sustainability is the
satisfactory progress, withjust minor exceptions, inthe implementationo f the several
follow-on state roadprojects that were originated by the TA project.

Bank andBorrower performance are ratedSatisfactory. The Bankpreparedaproject
withwell thought out entry conditions that requiredthe states' road agencies to
undertake commitments for reforming several aspects o froadmanagement. Such
conditions were essential for the preparation andimplementationo f the follow on
roadprojects. Despite the difficulty o fmanaginga project with 16 states participating,
there was a good supervisioneffort that helpedassure the success o f the project. The
Borrower worked closely with the Bank inpreparingthe project, andduring
implementationstate governments generally complied with commitments undertaken
inthepolicy letters signed as entryconditions. However, anareawhereboththe Bank
andtheBorrowercouldhave done betterwas infacilitating information exchanges
among participating states.

Three main lessonsmay be derived from this project:
        Therisks of multi-stateprojects should be carefully assessedduring
       preparation, especially due to the greater complexity o f supervisionrequired.
       The commitment o f the central government implementing agency and the
       possibility for the Bankto supervise the project from the country office are
       two keyways to minimize suchrisks. Systematic exchanges o f information
       duringimplementation amongthe participating states shouldbepart ofthe
       projects' design.

       Entry conditions requiringcommitment to reforms are useful when such
       commitments are formalized vis-a-vis o f boththe central government and the
       Bank; the states are more likelyto agreeto such commitments iftheyperceive
        a realistic expectation o f receiving funding from follow-on projects.

       Resettlement and rehabilitation policies are an issue which can cause conflict
       especially instates which are confrontedwith Bankregulations for the first
       time. A more intense Bank effort i s advocated to discuss the rationale o f such
       regulations with local officials at the outset and, to the extent possible,
        endeavor to adapt the application o f such regulations to local conditions where
       possible.



                                                                   Vinod Thomas
                                                                  Director-General
                                                           Independent EvaluationGroup


                                             1


1.      Background

1.1     India's economy i s the third largest inAsia, after Japan and China. GDP per
capita is estimated at $3,100 (2004, at purchasingpower parity). Duringthe 1 9 9 0 ~ ~
the economy grew at 6-7 percent per year, andhas accelerated further after 2000.
Services account for about 50 percent o f GDP, andthe remainder i s split about
equally betweenindustry and agriculture. The country's area, 3.3 million square
kilometers, i s about one third that o fthe UnitedStates.

1.2      The Indianpopulationo f 1.1billionis growing at 1.4 percent per year. The
populationis about 70 percent rural and 30 percent urban. Around two thirds o fthe
population depends on agriculture for their livelihood, and about 25 percent o fthe
populationi s below the poverty line; over two thirds o fthe populationlives inrural
areas. Millions o fpeople residinginrural villages do not have all-weather access to
markets and services and about 40 percent o fthe country's 661,000 have poor
accessibility. India's highGDP growth inrecent years, coupledwith changes inthe
structure o fthe economy, andmore demand for door-to-door services, has caused
transport demand to shift among transport modes, mainly to the advantage o froad
transport. As a result, whereas inthe 1950sthe railway carried over 90 percent of
freight and three quarters o fpassengertraffic, it i s now the roads that carry the largest
share-about 70 percent- o f land transport demand.

1.3     Much o f the expansion o ftransport infrastructure over the last 20 years has
been inroads. The overall lengtho fthe road network has more thandoubled, andthe
core, national highway system has increasedby 80 percent since 1985, attaining
57,000 kilometers by 2005. Yet, with the highgrowth intransport demand andthe
increasing shift inthe demandof landtransport from rail to road, the road systems,
bothnational and states level, remain largely inadequate for the needs, as they are
saturated andpoorly maintained. Over the last 10 years, Bank lendingfor transport
has increased significantly andhas radically shifted towards roads. DuringFY96-05,
total Bank transport lending for IndiareachedUS$5.2 billion, o fwhich US$4.7
billion for roads, dividedbetween national (42 percent) and state (58 percent) roads.
Lending for state roads increased from US$400 millioninthe five-year period
startinginFY96, to US$2.3 billioninthe following 5-year period. The mainpurpose
o f the SRD-TA project was to help prepare state roads projects.

1.4     The project's ICRwas o fthe intensive learningtype. As such, the ICR
included feedback from a stakeholder's workshop and a survey. The present PPAR
also sought to get the views from stakeholders ina systematic manner, and to this end
a workshop and a survey were carried out, the latter by an independent consultant
recruited locally.

1.5     Theproject covered a largenumber of states, all ofwhich couldnot be visited
bythe PPARmission. ThePPARworkshop inNew Delhiwas intended to cover as
manystates as possible. All participating stateswere invitedto attend, however
participation inthe event was limited to five states (Andra Pradesh, Assam, Kerala,
ManipurandTripura). Inaddition, duringthe PPARmission, avisit was made to

                                            2


Rajasthan andKarnataka for meetings there with officials from those states' road
agencies.


2.      ProjectDesignand Implementation

PROJECTOBJECTIVES

2.1     Theproject's overall objective' was "to assist the participating states inthe
preparation of highpriority road investments andto promote the carrying out o f
policy reforms by the participating states inthe provision, financing and maintenance
ofroadinfrastructure, while assisting inthe preparation o f road investments aimed at
Bankfinancing." Within this overallobjective, the project hadfive specific objectives
to bepursuedineach o fthe project's participating states:

i. Prepareimplementationplansforreformsandmajorsustainablepolicyand
        capacity improvementsinthe planning, financing, provision, maintenance and
        management o f the (state's) roadtransport infrastructure

ii. Preparemajorroadinfrastructurerehabilitationandupgradingproposals,
        aimed at implementation with Bank financing and/or other external assistance
...
111.    Implementimmediate capacity-buildingmeasuresineach state's road agency
        inprojectplanningandmanagementprocesses, systems andtechnology,
        including improved attention to the needs o f the environmental and social
        aspects o fprojects

iv.     Develop appropriate measures for the improved facilitation o fprivate sector
        roads investment, and

v.      Implementmeasures aimedat increasedprivatization o froads engineering,
        construction and supervisionservices androadmaintenance operations inthe
        sector (inessence, measures to increase outsourcing inroad activities).

2.2     The project objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategies
(CAS 1995 and its 1996 update) current at the time o f approval of the project, in
particular with the emphasis on continuedreform inkey sectors, including
infrastructure, implementationo f sustainable state-level reforms and substantially
increased infrastructure development and investment. In the subsequent CASs, the
focus on infrastructure was further emphasized, but with a focus on states undertaking
comprehensive reforms. Withregard to the TA project, this restriction was a
disincentive for states that were not undertakingsuch reforms, since there was little
opportunity for a follow on road investment project. This restrictionwas softened in
the 2004 CAS, with a view to opening up new opportunities for engagement and
dialogue with the largest andpoorest states.



1.As stated inthe loan document

                                            3


2.3     The overall objective was clearly inline with the Government o f India's
(GOI) approach to strengthening the economy. This objective was underscored bythe
fact that, while the federal government inthe mid-1990s had established a programto
finance the national highway system, no equivalent programhadbeen launched for
the states' road systems. The specific reference to "build a pipeline o f Bank projects
that would assist incanying out such expansion and improvement" was correct since
the Bank was the main lender to India for the development o fthe road system. Onthe
other hand, the five specific objectives appearedto makethe whole project overly
complex, especially taking into account that each o f the specific objectives was
intended to be carried out ineach o f the participating states.

2.4     Objectives and Performance hdicators. Inthe Memorandumo fthe President
(M0P)'s table on Project Performance Monitoring indicators the five sub-objectives
listedabove aremergedinto three, listedbelow, which is actually a better description
andpresentation o ftheprojectobjectives:

(i)     Support reforms for planning, financing, provision, maintenance and
        management o froadinfrastructure bythe states' road agencies. This sub-
        objective infact focuses on improving the management o fthe road agencies

(ii)    Support the preparation o fmajor road infrastructureproposals for Bank
        financing, aimed at improved efficiency o f states' roadnetworks; and

(iii)    Assist the states towards increasedprivatization o froad engineering,
        construction, works supervision andmaintenance inthe sector.

2.5     The three activities (i)improving management, (ii)   preparinginvestment
projects, and (iii)reducing the amount in-house work by outsourcingto private
companies, are used inthis PPAR inthe analysis o f the project's performance.

PROJECTCOMPONENTS

2.6     The project hadthe following components for which TA activities would be
financed ineach participatingstate:

(i)     Projectpreparation and implementation support. Cost: US$52 million;
        -       Preparation o f road investmentplans, including feasibility, preliminary
                and final engineering, environmentaland social assessment, and bid
                preparation
        -       Improvethe state's capacity for investmentplanning, procurement,
                project implementation and resource management
        -       Transfer o f internationalbestpractice methods, skills and technology;
                and
        -       Conductingworkshops, training programs and other activities aimed at
                improving the road agency's effectiveness

                                           4


(ii)    Provision of policy support and institutional development. Cost: US$l5.6
        million
        -   Developmentandimplementationo f plans for sustainable road sector
            policy andreforms (organizational, financial, management);
        -   Studies andpreparation o f action plans for implementingsustainable
            improvements to roadmanagement policy; and
        -   Developmento fplans for increasing outsourcing o fthe road agency's
            engineering, construction and supervisionservices

(iii)   Project management. Cost: US$O.40 million:
        -   Assistance to the implementing agency, Department o f Economic Affairs
            (DEA), throughout the project

2.7     Participationby interested states inthe project was subject to the following
eligibility criteria :
        -   Commitment to an agenda o fpolicy, institutional and sector-financing
            reforms;
        -   Already undertakenproject preparation, studies andworks; and
        -     Willingnessto accept Terms o fReference (TOR) following a model TOR
             providedbythe Bank

ParticipatingStates

2.8     At project appraisal, 15 stateshadbeenidentifiedas potentialparticipantsin
the project. Byproject completion, 16 Statesreceived financing under the project,
including states that hadnot beenoriginally included underthe project (Table 1).

                                                       5


Table 1:OriginalandActual States Participatinginthe Project andFunding
Allocation
State                        Original   Final       OriginalAllocation     Final Allocation
                                                    (US$million)           (US$million)
Andra Pradesh                 Yes          Yes              3.70                 2.85
Assam                          No          Yes              0.00                 0.50
Bihar                         Yes11        No               0.00                 0.00
Goa                           Yes11        No               0.00                 0.00
Gujarat                       Yes          Yes              4.20                 7.15
Haryana                       Yes          Yes              2.20                 1.40
Karnataka                     Yes          Yes              2.70                 3.20
Keralal                       Yes11        Yes              0.00                 4.50
Maharastra                    Yes          Yes              3.20                 0.40
Madya Pradesh                 Yes          Yes              3.20                 1.60
Manipur                        No          Yes              0.00                 1.40
Mizoram                        No          Yes              0.00                 2.10
Orissa                        Yes          Yes              3.50                 3.00
Punjab                        Yes          No               4.20                 0.00
Rajasthan                     Yes          Yes              4.20                 3.12
Tamil Nadu                    Yes          Yes              4.50                 6.80
Tripura                        No          Yes              0.00                 0.80
Uttar Pradesh                 Yes          Yes              3.70                 4.50
West Bengal                   Yes          Yes              3.50                 2.90
SpecialCategory 21            Yes          Yes              5.00                 0.20
Unallocated                                                 4.70
Total                                                       52.5Z                46.42
Sources: MOP and ICR
11Atappraisal, no proposalhad been submitted by these States.
2lStates with weak economic basewarrantingup to 90% annual Budgetassistancefrom GOI.
3TTotal exceeds Bank projectloansince it also includesgovernmentcontribution.




IMPLEMENTATION           ISSUES

Completion of Eligibility Requirements

2.9       There was a wide variation inthe time taken by the states to complete the
eligibility requirements to join the project, from March 1997 for Maharastrato
November 2000 for Tripura. A t the time o fthe actual approval o f the TA loan only
three states hadmet the entry conditions. The long delay that occurred insome cases
i s surprising considering that the eligibility requirements were relatively simple to
meet, since they were essentially commitmentsrather thanimplementing actions.
Probably the most politically sensitive condition however was the adoption o f a
resettlement andrehabilitationpolicy inline with Bank standards. Insome o f the
states, apotential cause for delay inmeeting eligibilityrequirements may also have
beenthe knowledge that a follow-on Bank investment loanwas not certainbecauseo f
the Bank's policy at the time ofrestricting lendingto states with satisfactory fiscal
management.

Project Financing

2.10      As expected, actual project expenditureswere fully financedbythe Bank,
with the government covering any tax expenditure.Bank disbursement amounted to
US$43.8 million, or 85 percent o f the US$51.5 million loan. Bank funding reached
92.8 percent o f the appraisal estimate for project preparation and implementation
support, but only 50.4 percent o f the estimate for policy support andinstitutional
development.

                                              6


ResettlementandRehabilitation

2.11    This was probably the most controversial and sensitive issue, both inthe TA
project and inthe follow-on projects. Inthe T A project, several states found it
difficult to accept the issuance o f a Resettlement andRehabilitationPolicy as an
access condition. Evenwhenthey did accept, it was without conviction, andthe states
endedup allocatinginadequateresources to carry out the social assessments. For
those states, their mainproblemareawas the Bank compensation policies, which they
viewed as "a way to legalize squatters".

2.12    As a technical assistancerather than an investment project, the R&R issue in
this project was at the concept level rather than actual applicationo f safeguards.
Despite the problems encountered at this level, and duringapplication inthe follow-
on projects, the ICRnotedthat `greater attention to proper implementationo f
environmentaland social safeguards' was one area o f improvement inthe road
projects that were prepared under the TA project, compared to the roadprojects
approved earlier.



3.      EvaluationFindings and Ratings

OUTCOME

3.1     The outcome o fthe project, based on an analysis o fits relevance, efficacy and
efficiency, described below, i s rated Satisfactory.

RELEVANCE

3.2     Relevance i s rated Substantial. The fast growth of the Indianeconomy has
been seriouslyhampered by transport constraints, especially its road system. Today,
roads carry 70 percent o f land transport freight, and this percentage i s still increasing.
The federal government's programto support the improvement andexpansiono f the
nationalhighway system, which i s managed by the central government, didnot, and
does not, have an equivalent program for the state roads. The Bankhas been the main
internationalfinancier fundingroadinvestment inIndia, and therefore its lending
provides a good insight into road investmentinIndia as a whole. Duringthe 10-year
period 1991-2000 (when the TA project was already underway), the Bank lent India
some US$ 800 million for the NationalHighway System (NHS) or more than double
the $350 millionit lent for the sole roadstate investmentproject (excluding the TA
project) duringthe period, the Andhra Pradesh (AP)project. The AP project, infact,
was preparedwith assistancefrom the Bank under this TA project. It i s important to
note that while the central government allocates large amounts to the NHS, no such
fundingonthis scalehas beenallocatedbythe state governments for expansion o fthe
state roads.

3.3     The TA project went beyondhelpingto prepare new investments; it also
included as part o f its objectives helpingthe participating states to prepare effective

                                              7


reforms inthe provision, financing andmaintenance o froad infrastructure. This was a
valuable objective, likely inspiredby the 1995-96 CAS, aimed at helping the states
prepare to improve the efficiency inthe management o f their roadnetworks. This
objective is especially significant because, while the roads inIndia are generally
congested andpoorly maintained, condition o fthe state roads has not kept up with the
conditiono fthe nationalhighways.

3.4     The relevance ofTA project i s fbrther confirmedbythe fact that seven new
state roads projects (of which the Andra Pradeshhas closed and six are underway, see
Table below) were approved by the Bank since the TA project was approved in 1997,
for a total o f $2.2 billion. Inaddition, the TA project helpedprepare a project
subsequently approved by the Asian Development Bank(Madhya Pradesh), and
helpedpreparetwo other projects for World Bank financing, currentlybeingreadied
for approval (Orissa and Punjab). Inanother case (Haryana), aproject was prepared
and submitted to the Board o fthe Bank, but was later withdrawn at aperiodwhen the
Banksuspendednew lendingfor India. Still, inanother case (Rajasthan), pre-
investment studies were carried out by a TA-financed consultant, but the state
government was reluctant to apply to the Bank, apparently becausethe technical staff
was unable to clearly explain the economic benefits that would result from the
project.

3.5     Table 2 below shows that, overall, the roadprojects generated by the TA
project are proceeding well, althoughthere are several where the achievement o fthe
development objective or implementationprogress is not filly satisfactory.

                                                          8


      Table 2 Follow On Projects and their Current Performance
State           Approval    Loan     CurrentStatus        Rating     Rating       ImplementationIssues/
                Fiscal      Amount                        Develop.   Implem.     Comments
                Year                                      Objective  Progress


Andhra          1998        350      Closed               NA         NA          Since this projectis closed, supervisionratings
Pradesh                                                                          do not apply. ProjectOutcomewas Satisfactory
                                                                                 and InstitutionalDevelopmentwas rated
                                                                                 modest. This projectwas approved in same FY
                                                                                 as the TA project. Preparationwas funded by
                                                                                  PPFwhich alsofunded States preparingto
                                                                                 participatein the TA project
Gujarat         2001        381      Ongoing              S          S
Karnataka       2001        360      Ongoing              S          S
Kerala          2002        225      Ongoing              MS         MS           Due to delays, projectunlikelyto achieveall
                                                                                  expectedroadworks.
Mizoram         2002         60      Ongoing              MS         MS           Implementationdelayslikely to make
                                                                                  impossibleto achieve all expected benefits.
                                                                                  Draft Road Fund legislationready for
                                                                                 submissionto State parliament
Uttar Pradesh   2003        488      Ongoing              MS         S            Inadequatedata collectionon roadcondition
                                                                                  and traffic, and preparationof maintenance
                                                                                  program
Tamil Nadu      2003         348     Ongoing              S          MU           Initialslippagesin implementation gradually
                                                                                  being caught up
TOTAL                        2212
Other Related
Projects
Orissa                               Under preparation
Punjab                               Under preparation                            OriginallyincludedinTA projectbut did not
                                                                                  receiveany funding
Madya                                 ProjectFinanced                             Preparationof road projectwas partiallyfunded
Pradesh                              by the ADB                                   under the TA project
Haryana                              ProjectFundedby                              Projectwas submittedto the Board but later
                                     Haryana                                     withdrawn. Projectwas financedfrom other
                                                                                  sources


      Ratings: S=Satisfactory;MS=Moderately Satisfactory;MU=Moderately Unsatisfactory


      EFFICACY

      3.6      Efficacy i s rated Substantial. A total o f 16 States finally up participatedinthe
      project, which i s a very highnumber considering that the MOP had listed only 15
      states as beingpotentially eligible for participating inthe project. The MOP'S
      performance monitoring indicators focused on six states meetingthe individual
      objectives. As shownbelow, for most o fthe specific objectives the target was
      exceeded, andby a considerable margin insome cases. Yet, there was a significant
      variation inthe degree o f compliance with the objectives byparticipating states. The
      targets, while probably reasonable, were not ambitious, andtherefore meeting or even
      exceeding them was not especially difficult.

      3.7      The analysis byindividual project objectives, below, isbasedonthe MOP'S
      presentation o f objectives inthe Performance Monitoring Indicators table, ICR data,

                                            9


andPPAR findings. That table groups the five sub-objectives described above into
the three following objectives:

Objective 1:Reforms to Road Management. Twelve states preparedinstitutional
development strategies that would be the basis for launchingsector reforms. The
highest success appears to havebeeninimproving project planning, where progress i s
reportedinpractically all states. Developmento f road data banks, including traffic
andother data, also appears as an areao fimprovement. Yet, as showninthe above
table, implementation i s less thanfully satisfactory. Improvements inthe social
aspects o f road investments were less significant. Both the implementationo f ongoing
follow-on projects and feedback inthe PPAR workshop suggest that there i s still
muchresistance to adopting and enforcing Bank guidelines, notably regarding
preparation o fR A P S . This is exemplifiedbythe lag inimplementingthe RAPSand
landacquisition inongoingprojects as reportedinthe most recent supervisionreports
o fthe following projects: Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, andUttarPradesh. The
almost unanimous sentiment expressedby officials from the five states that attended
thePPAR workshop inDelhiwas to question the Bank's guidelines Infact, officials
from several state road agencies interpreted Bank guidelines as an encouragement o f
"encroachers and squatters". Over time, the states appear to slowly move towards a
better understanding o fthe Bank's RAP guidelines, especially inthose stateswith a
follow on Bank roadproject.

Objective 2: Preparation of Road Infrastructure Proposals. Fourteen states prepared
feasibility studies, which were the basis for the follow-on projects, those approved by
the World Bank(seven), those under preparation(two), those prepared for Bank
submission but not finally approved (two), andthose fundedby other sources (two).

Objective 3: Privatization and Outsourcing. This project sub-objective appears as a
`stretch' o fthe project's main objective, which makes no specific reference to
facilitating private sector investments. As a result, this activity was given less
attention during implementation o f the TA project. Yet, the MOP set a target o f six
states that by the end o f the project would initiate studies on relevant reforms and
thenimplementthem.Inpractice, all statesmadeprogress inthe directionof
outsourcing. Inthat sense, this objectivewas largely achieved. But, inseveral states
the move to outsourcingwas not accompanied by the necessary improvementsand
strengthening o f the administrationcapacity to supervise the outputs o fthe
outsourced firm. The result was an increase inthe number o f cases where the Public
Works Department (PWD) felt that the quality o f the outsourced activities works was
under par.

EFFICIENCY

3.8     As a Technical Assistance project, no rate ofreturnwas applicable.

                                             10


INSTITUTIONAL     DEVELOPMENT      IMPACT

3.9     Institutional development impact i s ratedModest. While many activities
relevant to institutionaldevelopment was carried out, such activities were intendedto
helpprepare institutionaldevelopment changes ratherthancarry out reforms.

3.10    Studies carried out inall participating states, introducedthe respective road
agenciesto new methods andtechnologies, and set the basis for the later introduction
o freforms inthe management o f the agencies. Yet, as the primaryobject o f the TA
project clearly stated, the purpose was to promote reforms (that could be implemented
later) rather thanto carry out such reforms. Thus, it could not be expected that
execution o f the project and its components would generate a significant institutional
development impact. Furthermore, only about 50 percent o f the project fbnds initially
allocated for institutionaldevelopment activities was actually utilized.

3.11 Feedback duringthe PPARworkshop confirms this assessmento fthe
institutional development impact. The Tripura representative noted that insome areas,
such as maintenance management, there was a raised awareness o f the issues, but
there was no opportunityto implement new systems. The Assam representative noted
that puttingthe new systems inpractice needed to be supported by a major investment
project, inpart becausethe state lacked the fundingnecessary to implement new
systems. Representatives o f all states attending the workshop reportednot being
allocated sufficient fundingto meet the needs o f roadmaintenance.

3.12    Where there was a more explicit identification o f institutional impact, such as
inthe caseofAndraPradesh, andnew systemswere actuallyputinplaceandwere
operational, it was difficult to attribute such impact to the TA project, since a follow-
onroadproject hadbeen approved almost concurrently with the TA project. A case in
point where new systems were put inplacewas performance-based maintenance
(PBM)programs, andAP state officials reportedhaving35 routinemaintenance and
65 periodic maintenance roads contracted under PBM.These contracts are leadingto
a substantial decreaseinunitmaintenance costs relative to the traditional maintenance
contracts,

3.13     Among the areas where the states perceivedthat the TA project had generated
important knowledge that would serve for implementing future reforms were
systematic assessmentso froad condition (thanksto the conduct o froad condition
surveys andthe establishment o f RoadData Banks-RDBs), contractingmethods and
maintenance methods, the latter thanks to the production o f a maintenance manual.
Establishment o f RDBswas one area where a new technique had certainly been
introducedduringthe project insome states andwas made operational.

3.14     Insomeother areas, there were clear differences ofopinionamong attendees
to the PPARworkshop about the institutional development impact o f the project. For
example, inAndhra Pradesh, the TA project (coupled with the subsequent
implementationo f the AP roadproject), had generated a greater confidence in
outsourcing, which i s increasinglybeingused. Yet, inKerala, it was felt that
outsourcingwas beingencouraged too much, beyond the ability o fthe states' road

                                              11


department to control. Representatives from this state also notedthat the quality o f
the engineering consultants was sometimes poor, andthis was often discovered late,
after the works had started, leading to construction problems. Assam reportedthat
outsourcing had increased litigation (between contractors andthe road agency), which
was costly to the state inmonetary and staff resources.

SUSTAIN ABILITY

3.15     The project's sustainability i s ratedLikely. This i s confirmed by the follow-on
projects, whose implementation is mostly satisfactory. These projects have benefited
from the activities carried out andthe commitment givenby the state government
duringthe TA project onvarious aspects onroadpolicies andmanagement.

3.16     Inthe areaswherethere ismostreluctance to implement agreements or
commitments reached duringthe TA, such as the adoption o f appropriate R&R
policies, there has beenprogress and states are usingsuch policies inBank-financed
projects. Several states report that such policies are beingused inall road
investments,whether Bank-financedor not. Yet, inpractically all follow-on projects
currently underway there have beenproblems inthe implementation o f the RAPS.For
example, there i s now more than a one-year delay inimplementing the RAP inthe
TamilNaduroadproject.

3.17     Projects under implementationare also confrontedwith the difficult issues o f
landacquisitionandclearing utilities inthe right ofway ofroadimprovements. This
is an areawhere appropriate legislationwill need to be passedby the states, along the
lines o f recent nationallegislationwhich has considerably improvedthe situation for
the execution o fimprovement works inthe NationalHighway System.

3.18     Regardingthe funding for roadmaintenance, the TA project didnot intendto
put inplace appropriate mechanisms, butrather to raise awareness ofthe issue. It
would have beentoo ambitious and beyondthe scope o f a multi-state TA to attempt
more progress inthis area. This is a subject that remains critical, since evidence so far
i s that states have not been able to ensure sufficient funding for the maintenance o f
their roadnetworks. The federal government does, however, appear committed to
helpprevent a deteriorationo fthe stateroads systems andin2005, the CentralRoad
Fund, a federal-level fund, approved amajor allocation to the states for the funding o f
roadmaintenance.

BANKPERFORMANCE

3.19     Bank performance i s rated Satisfactory. The Bankprepared a project whose
objectives were consistent with the respective CASs, andthe project did include a
well conceived `stretch' inexpectations interms o fthe specific objectives to be
achieved.


3.20     The entry conditions were well thought out and, although not especially
difficult to meet, they requiredthe state road agencies to undertake commitments for
reforming various areas ofroadmanagement. Such commitments demanded

                                           12


significant internal discussions inthe road agencies, andprobablywith other state
agencies, that requiredtime. Inpreparingthe project, the Bank appears to have made
gooduse o fpast experience from roadprojects inIndia.

3.21    Because o f the largenumber o f states that actually participatedinthe project
andthe large diversity inthe capacities o fthe road agencies o fthe participatingstates,
the T A project couldhave beenviewed as arisky operation, difficult to supervise and
probably unlikelyto meet its objectives. At the same time, given the importance o f
project objectives, it shouldbe viewed as a high risk, highrewardoperation.

3.22    The fact that the project was able to achieve its objectives is a sign o f a good
supervision. The ICRreports a total o f eight supervisionmissions, or roughly about
two per year. While this i s about the standardintensity inmost projects, the large
numberofstates posed special difficulties for the supervisiono fthe TA project. On
the other hand, the numbero fsupervision missionsunderestimates the real
supervision effort, since there was muchtelephone communicationbetween Bank
project staff and the various state road agencies participating inthe project. Such
communications were facilitated by the Banksupervision staff beingbased inDelhi,
which is useful consideringthe 9:30-10:30 hour time differencebetween Washington
andDelhi. Another indication ofthe good supervisioneffort is that several o fthe
supervision missions comprised a significant number o fBank staff, including one
missioncomposed o f 15 staff and another o f seven.

3.23    Another signal o f the goodperformance bythe supervisionmissions i s that the
project closed on schedule after havingmet project objectives despite some
significant delays inthe completiono f entry requirements.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE

3.24    Borrower performance i s rated Satisfactory. The DEA andthe Bank
cooperated closely duringproject preparation. A largenumber o f state governments
prepared State Policy Letters that allowed themto join the project and access funds
from it. Duringimplementation, state government generally complied with
commitments undertaken inthe policy letters and allocated responsible staff to carry
out the project.

3.25    As notedearlier, there were, not surprisingly, significant differences inthe
performanceo f the various participating states, but even those performing at a lower
level managed to meet project expectations. At the other extreme, some states were
quick to set new road management methods and tools inplace during implementation.

3.26    Despite reluctance to agree to Bank guidelines on RAPS,andmuch criticism
voiced duringthe project as reported insupervisionreports and as expressed during
the PPAR workshop, most states are complyingwith the guidelines during
implementationo f the follow onprojects.

3.27    One area where the Borrower andthe Bank could have beenmore
forthcoming was inencouraging better exchange o f information and experience

                                            13


among participating states. One such exchange was carried out, with participationby
several states, on the occasion o fthe Project LaunchWorkshop for the follow o n
project inKarnataka. Several state officials attending the PPARworkshop stressed
the importance o f conducting similar regular exchanges amongparticipating states.



4.       Conclusions and Lessons

Multi-stateprojects: risks and rewards

4.1      Past experience withmulti-state projectshas shownthat, especially when a
large numbero f states are covered under one project, project risk is increased because
supervision becomes resource-intensive, and often the Bank i s not able to assign the
required level o f supervision resources. Onthe other hand, ifthe project turns out to
be successful, it may be a cost-effective way to generate the expected benefits ina
numbero f states. Thus, suchprojects maybe seen as highrisk, highrewardprojects.


4.2      Based on the experience with the TA project, three factors appear to be critical
inhelpingreducethe risks ofsuchprojects: First, a strong centralgovernment
commitment, with the implicationthat it i s prepared to make the necessary effort to
ensure a successful implementation. Second, the possibility for the Bank to supervise
the project with staff from the resident office, which reduces supervision costs and
facilitates both field visits and telephone communication betweenthe Bank and the
participating states. Supervision becomes even more intensivewhenthere i s a wide
variation inthe capacity o fthese states. Third, that the states are strongly motivated
bythebenefitthey expect from the project. Inthe caseo fthe TA project, the
overridingbenefit was the highexpectation that follow on investments to improve the
state roadnetwork would materialize.

Entry conditions

4.3      The project had a well conceived set o f entry conditions. Such conditions
required state road agenciesto demonstrate commitment towards a number o f
principles involvingboththe management o f the road agency as well as World Bank
guidelines. Accepting such principles requiredthe road agencies to open intense
internaldebates to analyze whether such principles could be applied. The
implementation o f follow on roadprojects, despite some problems, shows that the
commitments undertaken under the TA project havebeenuseful inhelping
implement the subsequentproject.

Helpingpreparationof Bankprojects as an objective

4.4      The explicit objective o fthe TA project to helpprepare follow-on Bank
projectsmay appear to be a rather narrow objective. Yet this project showedthat it i s
possible to include strategic objectives within the context o fthis kindo fproject. In
this casethe project includedbothhelpingprepare the roadagenciesto later adopt
institutional reforms andhelpingthe agencies prepare for investmentprojects. The

                                            14


explicit mentionregardingpreparation o fBankprojects was appropriate because the
World Bankwas, andcontinues to be, the main external financier o f state road
investments inIndia.

InformationExchangeinMulti-Stateprojects

4.5     A multi-stateprojectprovides many experiences and insights whose
dissemination and discussion are likely to be o fmuchbenefit to participating states as
well as other states. This is an areawhere theproject design couldhavebeenmore
explicit, by embedding regular exchanges o f information through seminars or
workshop amongproject activities.

ResettlementandRehabilitation

4.6     Reaching agreement on R&R policies was one o f the most difficult aspects
during implementation o f the TA project. The sensitive nature o f this issue has been
firther demonstratedbythe recurringproblemsinthe follow-on projects, where in
most cases implementationhas been delayed due to issues inimplementing
resettlement actionplans. The problem appears to have beenparticularly acute due to
wide gaps inapproach between traditional Indianpolicies andBank regulations, with
Indian officials oftenbelievingthat Bank policies need to be better adapted to local
country conditions.



5.      Lessons Learned

5.1     The following lessons may be derived from this project:

        The risks of multi-state projects shouldbecarefilly assessedduring
        preparation, especially due to the greater complexity o f supervisionrequired.
        The commitment ofthe central government implementingagency andthe
        possibility for the Bankto supervise the project from the country office are
        two keyways to minimize such risks. Systematic exchanges o f information
        duringimplementationamongthe participating states shouldbepart o fthe
        projects' design.

        Entry conditions requiringcommitment to reforms are usefulwhen such
        commitments are formalized vis-&vis o fboth the central government andthe
        Bank;the states aremore likely to agree to such commitments iftheyperceive
        arealistic expectation o f receivingfbnding from follow-on projects.

        Resettlement and rehabilitation policies are an issue which can cause conflict
        especially instateswhich are confrontedwith Bankregulations for the first
        time.A more intense Bank effort is advocatedto discuss the rationaleof such
        regulations with local officials at the outset andto the extent possible,
        endeavor to adapt the application o f such regulations to local conditions where
        possible.

                                                     15


Annex A. BasicDataSheet

INDIA-STATES' ROADINFRASTRUCTURE                               DEVELOPMENT              TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCEPROJECT(SCL-41140; PPFB-P224O)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                  Appraisal            Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                   estimate        current estimate      appraisalestimate
Total projectcosts                                   68.0                56.94                   84.0
Loan amount                                          51.5                43.8                    85.0
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                              7.7




                                                         Original                           Actual
Boardapproval                                                                             12/05/1996
Signing                                                                                   0111511997
Effectiveness                                                                             0211411997
Closingdate                                                                                12/31/2001




    Stage of Project Cycle                                 ActuaWLatestEstimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                             US$('OOO)
IdentificationlPreparation                       3                                       4
AppraisallNegotiation                           10                                       20
Supervision                                    304                                      693
ICR                                              7                                       23
Total                                          324                                      740
The figures for identificationplusappraisalhegotiationcover only the inputs ofthe Task Manager who was not a
Bankfinanced staffmember. His costswere metby aTrustFund.Noother costs for bank staffare found inthe
Cost AccountingSystemfor lending.Itis assumedthat other staffworking on lendingwas chargingtheir time to
state specific highwayprojectpreparationcodes (e.g. Haryana, AP)

                                                  16


Mission Data
                             Date      No. of        Specializations       Performancerating
                          (monthlyear) persons         represenfed       Imple. Prog. Dev. Obi.

Identification/Preparation  03/96
AppraisaVNegotiation        06/96         4      Inst.Spec, 2 x Highway
                                                 Engrs,Ops Offr.
                            12/96         3      Inst.Spec, Highway,
                                                 Engr, Fin Analyst
Supervision                 06/97         1      PrinTrans Spec                   S    S
                            04/98         1      PrinTrans Spec                   S    S
                            01/99         3      PrinTrans Spec, Prog             S    S
                                                 Asst, Consultant
                            08/99        15      Highway Engrsx 3,                S    S
                                                 Trans Planner, Inst.
                                                 Spec, Ops Adviser, Env
                                                 Spec, FM Spec, SD
                                                 Specx 4, ProgAsst,
                                                 Team Assts x 2
                            04/00         3      Trans Planner, Fin               S    S
                                                 Analyst, team Asst.
                            12/00         3      Trans Planner, Prog              S    HS
                                                 Analyst, team Asst.
                            06/01         4      Trans Planner, Prog              S    HS
                                                 Analyst, team Asst.
                            10/01         7      Trans Planner,Trans              S    S
                                                 Econ, Trans Spec,
                                                 Highway Engrsx 3,
                                                 TeamAsst.
ICR                         01/02         5      Trans Planner,Trans              S    S
                                                 Specx2, lnst Spec,
                                                 Team Asst.



PerformanceRatings:S=Satisfactory;HS=HighlySatisfactory

                                                           17



..              Annex B Borrower Comments
                             -
                                                                             D.0.NO. 10/28/96-FB.vI-V0I.~
                                                                     m m
                           RohitMathur,                              f?m-

                           ~ ~ 1 : 2 ~ 0 ~ 7 g ~ ~ : 2 3 0 9 ~ 7 ~ 0 vofeIndiar(BharittSarkar)
                           Under Secretary(FB)                    *drn
                                                                         r n n e n
                                                        Ministry of Finance (Vitta Mantralay4
                                               Department of EconoinicAffiiirs (Arthik Karya Vibhag)
                                                                                          ti* September2006
              Dear      &&A,
                                                  ;rf       / NewDelhi

                           Please refer to DEA's letter dated.25'" May, 2006 regarding comments of this
              departmenton the Draft Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) in respect of
              StatesRoadInfrastructureDevelopmentTechnicalAssistance Project                  .
                            As already informed,this department had sent a copy of the draft reportto all
              participantswho attendedthe performanceassessment workshop for their comments. Out of
              these participants, we have received the commentshriews from the States of Mizoram,
              Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Manipur 8 Tamil Nadu on the draft PPAR. A copy of
              commentslviewsreceivedfromthese Statesisenclosedfor your consideration.

              TechnkalFurther,    the Draft PPAR in respect of States Road infrastructure Development
                          Assistance Project has also been considered in this department. In addition to
              partner comments already sent to the World Bank vide letter dated 15* April, 2002 (copy
               enclosed), the commentsof DEA on the draft PPAR are enclosedfor your considerationand
               finalising the  PPAR in respect of States Road Infrastructure Development Technical
               Assistance Project.

               respect ofThoughthis    departmenthas no objectionto the publication of the PPAR repohin
                            States Road Infrastructure Development Technical Assistance Project, it is,
               however, requestedthat the documentshould not carry anykgo of the Governmentof India
               and should carry thefollowingdisclaimeronthe fqt pageofthe report. .
                                                                             .   *

                       ''IThe'reporthas been discussedwith the Governmentof India and concerned State
                Governments but does not necessarily bear their approval for all its contents, especially
               wherethe Bank hasstateditsjudgementslopinionslpolicy recomm%dations"/

                               With regards,


                                                                                              Yours sfpcerely,


                                                                                               (Rohit Mat
                                                                                                    Il"qs,  )


                 Alain Barbu,
                .Manager,
                 Sector,ThematicandGlobalEvaluationDivision,
          .. . ..,.1818HstndN.W.
                 independentEvaluationGroup,
    I,I..'    u
                 WashingtonD.C.20433,                                            !
                 U.S.A.

                        . .  .   I
                              18                                            -.. .




                                                      D.O. N0.10/28IQ6-F&~-~
Geeta Narayan,
UnderSecretary
PH:3014443
Email: geeta@financadel-
                                                        Dated 15* April, 2002


Dear

       Please refer to World Bank's letter dated 7/2/2002 fowarding therewith
the draft ImplementationCompletion Reportof State RoadTechnicalAssistance      '
Project and requesting for 'partner comments' from Department of Economic
Affairs.                                                                          b



       The partner comments preparedby Departmentof Economic Affairs are
enclosed herewith for further incorporation into the final Implementation
CompletionReport.

        Regards.

                                                              Yours sincerely,

 Encl. N A




 ShriAlok Bansal,
 SeniorTransportPlanner,
 World Bank,LodiEstate,
 NewDelhi.

.                                                                ?'..,.....
                                                                         ";


                                      19


         States RoadmrastructureDevelomentTaptoiect

  Partner comments: (prepared byDEA)

        The States TA loan made available. project preparation funds
  on a definite and predictable basis and provided a forum 'for
  'demonstration effect' and experience sharing among participating
   states. In the process it catalysed renewed attention of several states
   on their highways sector. The preparation/implementation of state
   highway development projects by Andhra Pradesh,                  Gujarat,
   Karnataka, Mizoram, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh andTamilNaducovering
   a total road length of 16751 kilometers and involving an investment
   of about US$2831.50 millions is a direct outcome of this States TA
   loanproject.         I




          Inevitably there was a close lmkage inthe process and timing of
   the implementation of the States TA loan and finalisation of the'
    follow-on investment projects for World Bank funding. While States
    in this category derived numerous benefits (these are already
    described elsewhere in the Implementation Completion Report) and
    were supported by close and regular Bank supervision;                   the
     supervision and guidance in respect of the other participating States
     could have been more rigorous. For instance after having spent
     considerable resources in commissioning feasibility studies and
     project reports, the next steps remainunclear for these states.

            A larger challenge in.project design would continue to be
     ensuring the internalisation, sustenance and replication of the              '.

     implcoved procedures and international %est practices' introducedby
     such projects by the implementingdepaxtments and agencies after
      the project closure.                                                    ...



                                      .  J

                                   20                                      ... . .
                                                                              - -. ..




+ Aintemalisation,
     large challenge in project design would continue to be ensuring the
                    sustenance and replication of the improved p d u r e s
  and international 'best practices' introduced by such projects by the
 + DEA
  implementingdepartments and agenciesafter the projectclosure.
          agrees that the risks of multi-state projects should be carefully
   assessed during preparationand there should be systematicexchanges
   of information during implementation among the participating states.                 ."i
   Further, the Dissemination and discussion of the experiences and                      I
   insights is an area where the project design could have been more
 +  explicit.                                                                            iI
   DEAalso agreesthatthere hasbeenprogresson adoptionof appropriate
   R&R policies, yet, practically, all follow-on projects currently underway
   are having problems in the implementation of the Resettlement
.  Action Plans. Further, most of the Projects under implementation are
   confronted with the difficult issues of land acquisition and clearing
   utilities in the right of way of road improvements. Further, DEA
   agrees that a more intense Bank effort is advocated to discuss the
   rationale of Bank's guidelines on Resettlement and Rehabiliition with
    local officials at the outset and to the extent possible and endeavor to
    adapt the application of such guidelinesto local conditions. The issue of
    capacity building for the purpose and to have much more professional
    approach on the issues of LA & R&R is already under consideration in
    DEAinconsultationwith concernedMinistrieslStateGovts.
  +Adequate stress should be on formulating appropriate policies for the
    future maintenance of Roads constructed, Road Safety measures and
    Corridor Management.

                                                                                         ., .,.
                                                                                            ,        .  .
                                                                                       ,, ,L .;.... ... .
                                                                                                      0I>;. , .,




                                 ..                                                                             ....
                               I            21                                                           c




b
                                                                                                          . . *
.4
 ' f
                                                                                                             . .




                                                                          a-
                                                     Chtcd Aizawlt h4* Junlt 2006

          TO       :Tho Under Secretaryto theGovernmentofIndia
                   MinhtryofFinm:r
                   aputrncntofeconomicAff'in
                   NorthBlock, NtwDclhi 110001
                                           -
                   Fuc: 01I 23W 2417

               I I
               II
            ..     .:PPFB-EZ240) Drfi ProjectPerfomrnccAwssmcntMlssbnmdCaseStudy
                    strteRord1nfra:hcture 'kvclopmtntTochiticalAssirtnno: Project(SCl.4 I140;
                                 -                                                                     -
                    CommentsU t eof,
    . .   Sub.                                                                                        .. .       _. . -
           Ref      :YourLetterKO.IX?8/96-F6.Vi-Vol VI of 25' May2006                                             . .

                                                                                                     . .
         ' Sir,                                                                                      -.
                   With referenceto ths subject and your letter quoted Ibov8 I have the.honour;o-sutc               -
                              the saidltpmand we found (hat the npolrr covenall aspectsvery well and ' -                 .' 4.
                                  on it. Hcwevei, it may k added that rifw the State of Mitoram, the                  :    1


                                     gotined sutatantirf .'rnprovanent in projtxt prepantion, R a d                        ..

                                      !kctor Pwicipationr and Innitutionalchaqcr.                                      -.-

                                                      -          t
     I
                                          '  221                                     I
                                                                                               /'

                '    GOVERNMENTOFANIDHRAPkADESH                                      ''T7i"
                                                                                        C   .




                    ROADSANDBUILDINGSDEPARTMENT

 ,Sri m
   h                                                       To
      V. Ra'vindranath,B. Sc,(Engg),MIE,                   The PrincipalSecretary     , .
 ChiefEngineer(R&B) &                                      T(R&B) Department,      '



1 Errum - 500
 ManagingDirectorAPRDC,                                    GovernmentofAP,       '
         Manzil,                                           Secretariat,
  Hyderabad        082.                                     Hyderabad 500022.
                                                                       -

                   Lr.No.MD/PD/DCE-I/ICR-4114/2006:dt:07-06-2006.                     .
 Sir,

         Sub: StateRoadInfrastructureDevelopmentTechnicalAssistanceProject(SCL41    lk;
                                         \
              PPFB P2240) DraftProjectperformanceAssessmentMissionandCase
                    -                     \                                      -
                                                     \



                                            \         \                                       . t


              ParticularsSubmitted Reg. '
                                   -
         Ret- Govt.T,R&B MemoNo. 5886/R.N.2/2006-1;dt: 31-05-2006.


                                               *******


          Advertingto the referencecited, Isubmitherewiththe BorrowersCommentson4114-ln




   End: As above                                             \

                                                                                               ,

I                                                          I  )\




                                                           ManagingDirecbr,APRDC.

                                                                          1

                                          to Govementof India,Ministryof FinanceDepartment
                                                                  ..-----



                                           ,'.'?
                       I                                           -   .   ,.. .-

    i                                                                                                -.
                                            23                                                          . \




      State RoadinfrastructureDevelopmentTechnicalAssistance
  i                  Pro.iect (SCL - 41140 & PPFB-P2240)
     (In rewonseto GoI, MOF, DEA Lr No. 10/28/96-FB-VI-Vol VI
 I
                                      dt: 25-05-2006)
                       Annexure B: BorrowersComments
                                          -

    1. General:
                             The Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) was originally
        allocated US $ 3.70 Millions financial assistance from the World Bank through
        Governnient of Iiidia (GoI) for the "Stare Road Infrastructurc Devclopinent Techrtical
        Assistance Project" (SCL   -41140;   PPFB - P2240). The final allocation was for US $
        2.85 millions. The Project effectiveness started on 14-02-1997and closedby 31-12-2OOl.
        The objective of the Project was (i)to assist the participating states in the preparation of
        high priority road investments and (ii)to promote the carrying out of policy reforms in
        the provisions, financing and maintenance of road infrastructure
     2. ImplementationDetails:
                                The objectives and benefits of the Project have been substantially
        achieved through the following:
  2.1 Projectpreparationand implementingsupport:
         Preparation of road investment plans including feasibility, preliminary and final
         Engineering,environmentaland social assessment, and bid preparation:
I                                 The achievement of this component was satisfictory.
        Feasibility studies were taken up assessing environmental and social aspects. The
         foilowing cruciai studies has been undertaken with the aboce assistance of Project

I       PreparationFunds (PPF) provided by World Bank.
       ~




          1. Base line Socio-Economic Studies.
          2. RoadmaintenanceStudy
          3. Institutional DevelopmentStudy.
          4. Project Coordinating Consultancy for detailed Engineering including Eiivironrneiital
              impact agreement.
                           These studies have given enough data for critica1 pvdlll,rtinn nf t&
                                                                            ..       , ,

         scenerio in the State, which became the foundation of the mega AP State Highway
         Project. The studies have also given good insight to the Govt. of the best International

                                           24

  practices, procurementguidance, and other studied in comparison with Indian standards.
  Hence in the Project of APSHP (Le., followon Project) the same has been adopted for the
  Project, resultingin innovative and economical basis of design.


  EnvironmentalAspects:     -
                              The State have learnt the importanceof afforestation, and the
                                                                                        !

I Environmental Management Plans (EMP) was implemented successfully. For better
  output the GOAP had appointeda dedicated Forest Officer from the ForestDepartmentin
  RBD.

  LandAcquisition:     -
                             The State could also frame a RoadSector Po1ic.y specific for,
                             c-
  -.--- APSH Project.The ResettlementAction Plan(RAP), in landacquisition, has been
  the
  implementedsatisfactorily. The project acquired521 ha. land for which the LA process
  hasbeen fully completedand all the landlosers received their compensation


  Resettlement:   -
                    Inview of the R&R Policy framed, the quality of housingof PAPs, after
                             ------I-.-




  displacement,as well as their incomehas significantly improvement mainly due to the
  new economic opportunitiesthrough the project (including wage employment during
  construction). The project has successfully dovetailedGovernment schemes, particularly
   inproviding house sites and housing, to help PAPs in their resettlement.


    Improve the State's capacity for investment planning, procurement, Project
    implementation& Resource Management:
                                  The achievement of this objective is          also rated
   satisfactory. The project has facilitated major improvements in a number of business
   processesof RBD, includingprocurement,maintenancemanagement, data-base planning,
   quality assurance, road safety and human resources development. GOAP has increased
    the overall maintenance funding for the state roads by about 66% during the project
    implementationperiod.

    Safety Audits: -
                                  RBD has conducted safety audits on all the 1AQLUhnwf
    Roads and has implemented road safety engineering measures sub s un+wwUne
    marking, improved signs, crash barriers, junction improvements, traffic calming
         _..---.- -----

                                                25


      measures and reflective studs and lane markings to improve driving safety/comfort
       during the night driving. The implementation of these measures have significantly
       improved the safety on the project roads and received lot of appreciation from the road
       users as reportedin the roaduser satisfactionsurvey.

     '  Transfer of Internationalbest practicemethods, skills & technology:
                                   The achievement of this component is highly satisfactory. The
       RBD has introduced performance based contract system for carrying out routine
       maintenance of Road. This system is first of its kind in Indja. This is based on principle
       of "a stitch in time saves nine". This makes the dontractor to take all possible steps &
        initiatives to avoid the damage to the road. By means of which the surface condition of
        roadwill be sde guarded and gives more    i i f Gui~d
                                                            comfort to thc riders. It also reduces the
        cost of maintenance of assets. It has been successfully implemented in 4 districts. After

   11   successfully implementing the PBMS it has been introduced in the other districts also.
        These contracts are leading to a substantial decrease in unit maintenance costs relative to
        the traditionalmaintenancecontracts.

   I
   1I                                The new technologv called Crushed Rock Base (CRB) was-
                                       -__---
                                     c
        -introduced  in APSHP for the first time in India. The CRB is nothing but a graded
        aggregate with binding properties. The CRB if laid and compacted at required moisture,
        it will act as good load bearing layer. It replaces conventional multi asphaltic layer. By
        eliminating multi asphaltic layers, the cost of constructions is considerably reduced.
        There will be 30 -40% of cost savings constructionof new roads.
          Conducting Workshops, Training programmes and other activities aimed at
          improvingthe road agency effectiveness:
                                     The achievement of this component is also rated satisfxtory
I

         by conducting the workshops, Frequentlj. The workshops hue beer! conducted at each
         level right from initiating officer to Head of the Department at their respective regions.
         Counterpart training with the help of International Consultants is also done under the



 2.2 Provisions of Policy Support and InstitutionalDevelopment:
                                         This   component     included     implementation of         811

     Institutional development action plane (Prepared during Project preparation), which covered
     a series of institutional development initiatives to improve the business efficiency of the

                                                                                     \

   .",
   .. As a nsultof m dfoundation
      '                               and skill set out in this Project, AUS Aid WBS kind I,


                                                                                            .
 Fra&ct Man8gemen.t.
r                           This component rated satisfactory. The Department of
  Economicaffairs@EA) hasassistedthe implementingagency duringprojectpreparation.

  MainConclusions:
          In order to utilize the transfer of knowledgeeffectively,the RBD in GOAP has
          postedesriencestaff in-e
          --                                           Droiscts.
        i ByutilizingthefundsfromWorldBankinthisproject,theGOAPhascreateda                   .:'
          prestigiousproject namely APSHP and successfully achieved the objectives and
           performedwell andratedhighlysatisfactory.
           With the experience of the la   project, the GOAP has individually proposed 2nd
           new project without taking assistance fer project preparation. Also successfully
           got the approval to take up 2ndnew project namely AP State Road Project
          . (APSRP).




                                                         ManagingDirector, APRDC.




                                                                   . ..:.
                                                                     .- .:...

                                                                           . .      , ...:.  0 . 6 . . :




                                                    27


         No.WBP-~O~OO~-(~~)-C                            Oovernmcntof G u j e
                                                         RoadsandBuildhg8DepartmCnt,
                                                         Sachivalaya,Oandhinap~
                                                          Datedthe' l6i2#6.
                                                                    22 JI:N 2 0 0 ~        '

                                                                     c

                                                                                                          -
                                                                       *     ' %
                                                                     .                                     .-.,.
                                                                                                            \ r   '
                                                                      !                               --
                                                                        I .  *<                    .    .

    *     Sub:- StatesRoadhfhstructureDevelopmentT e c h n i M a t (SC%&--
                  :PPFB-P2240)-Draft ProjectPerformanceAssessmentMissionandCaseStudy.
                         ..                                                                                            i

                                                                                                                .. *
                                                                                                                 .   *
          Ret- YourNo~i0/28/96-FB.VI-Vd.Wdated25/5/06.
                        'fl
          Sir,

                   With reference to your letter dated35-5-06 on the subjectmentioned above, the                *...
             general comments of Roads and Buildings Department., Government of Gujarat is as
             below :                                        2




                     The Govemmmt of Gujarat has enjoyed a significant success in developing
              privatesectorparticipationinroadinhstructuredevelopmentandkontinuesto do so".




     .... *    .
                         . .             . om& 'dn'S+cial DU~~(SP) &e Oovernmentof%jarst,
                                                                      to
                                                 * -  j ftoadsmdBuildingsDm~~t.
;.I.  '1'   *  wlBBq6    ,                            I

                                                       4   '

               ,...                  .. .
                  , ,-..,:                  *
                          #C\*.. .     ,




            .. .




    \
httenliati :Shri SoumyiiChattoaadhyay.              .
                                                 s .
                                                       I.
                                                        . ..

                                                                           . . -.-.-. ._
                                         29                               .   .        .i



                             Governmentof TamilNadu
                               HighwaysDepartment         '




     From                                  To
     Dr.'T.VSomanathan, I.A.S.,
     ProjectDirector,                       Ministryof Finance,
     Tamil NaduRoadSector Project,          Departmentof Economic-Affairs,
     N0.48, Dr. MuthulakshmiRoad,            New Delhi
     Adyar, Chennai-20.                                                                      i




                  Letter. No.4286 I2006rTNRSPlC Dated: 18.07.2006.


    . Sub: Tamil NaduRoadSector Project-World BankLoanAssistanceNo.4706IN
           -DraftProjectPerformanceAssessmentMissionand      CaseStudy Draft
           ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report    -Comments-Submitted--
           Regarding.

      Ref:Under Secretaryto the Governmentof IndialMinistryof Finance, Department
           of Economic-Affairsletterdated 10..07.2006'




         Isubmitherewiththe commentsonthe draftProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport            1
 (PPAR)for kind perusaland necessaryaction.


1      Enel: commentson PPAR                                    . .
                     . .
              #                                             Tamil NaduRoad Sector Project.

                                                                       . ..                     `LA...
                                                                                                . .   -..

                                                                                      ...
                                                                                        . ,  ._.
                                                                                           I.

                                                                                   . .    _.
                                      30

     Commentaonthe draftProjectperformancem m e n tReport                              ..

1. Page 3 2.4 (iii) Increasedpdvatization road engineering, construction Work
          -         -
supervision underthe caption Objectives and performanceindicatdm&
Page3 PrivatizationandOutsourcing
        -

(i)Poor quality of Engineeringconsultants and frequent replacement of
personnel:
The quality of Engineerina     m- on
   L
consultant was not UD to the requirements. During the selection process the
-
consultant had submitted the proposals with qualified personnel in order to get
theservices. Howeverduring the currency of contract,the consultants hadfailed
to deploy their originally proposed candidates, even though the services were
awarded within the scheduled time. R e p l a c e m e n t o f u e n t l y
 happening after the works had started leading to construction problems and
 delays. This affects the progress of Services as well as continuity of services
  ieadingto delayingimplementationof the project.


  There is no propermechanismto take action againstthe consultantfor hisfailure          '

  <discharging their duties. Since there are no penal clauses like performance
.security; liquidated damages, retention money etc., similar to works contracts
   and the consultancy contract provides for termination clause only;             the
   consultants' liability,is very much limited and the clients are left with no option
   except to a w p t the performanceof consultantas such or go infor terminationor
   arbiition etc which are long drawn process and ultimately the clients' interest
   gets affe&    and thereby delayedthe projectimplementationprocess.


   The consultancy contract needs review with te(lrtd to incorporating the
   penal clauses similar to works contract in order to ensure more
   rcoountabllityof conaulbntm.

                                       31


    f :



  I*-
  6World
   I        ofWOW    contract:
               Bank's polm on intducl'na lame size of contracts needs t o w
 ,~vmed,
1'for example inTamil NaduRoad Sector Project,theWorld Bank hasinsistedto .
  go in for large size of contract padage namely TNRSe 01 of value US$ t35
I millionin order to attract largeparticipationof internationalfirms which may bring
  bestpracticesandtechnologytransfer.
  Though letter of invitationwas publishedtwice for global competition with wider .                i
                                                                                                   I'
   publ'icity the responsewas lukewarmand limitedfirmswere q u a l i i and ithas
   not yielded the desired objective. On the other                                                . #
                                                                                                    i


   L
   selection of large of size of contract had delayed the procurement proces~.
   Besides,it isobservedthat size of the packageistoo highfor Indian conditions
   and it isfound that administeringthe contractofthis naturebecomesvery difficult'                II

   for allthe partiesdoncerned (contractors,consultantsand PIU).


   Itis preferableto havemediumsize contractsof US$20 25 millionto suit
                         .. ---                                      -
    the localenvironmentwhichbecomemanageable.                                          4



                                                           ?



    11. Resettlement & Rehabilitation: The policy and safe guard measures of
    World Bank are essentialfrom the point of resehingthe project affked people
    and providing adequate compensation. The implementation of resettlement &
    rehabilitation policy in line with the World Bank standards in Indian context is
    very difficultto *mplementandcausedelay incompletionof project.             -

     The resettlementaction policyshould be evolved inconjunction with local
     conditions and practicerandwould bepracticablefor Implementation.
                                                                                 _I




     111. Page li para 3.17 a 3.18:
                   -                                        5'*.
                                                            $-

       Tamil Nadu is tlie first State.have implemented the Hghway Act similar to
                                                              ~rotectthe riahtof way and..
                                                                                            4  '




 I                                                  . ... . - - - . . . ..._.. .   . _ .

      /   dealwiththeIW(H) meL ~ Wmu~ition -ring
                                      I         and                the uti~itia i
                                                                              to
     . G a t i o ntor the e-     o    t major"9,
                                         ~                                                 .-
      Tamil Ndu isthe one of the state have lmprovedthe baddog of ma\nbnam
      fund and adequate maintehance expenditure of more than 80% of the finance       .

   .   commissionof the incurredbythe HighwaysDepartment


L .    IW Page11 pan 3.16: underthe captionof 8ustainability:-
                  -

       It was mentionedthat there was delay of more than one year in implementing
       RAP in Tamil Nadu Road Sector Pro)ect. It is pointed out that the delay was
       about six monthswhich was mainlydue to naturalcalamities includingTsunami
       during December 2004 and unprecedented rains during August 2005              -
        December2005.Jhis delaywas notdueto lackoffund allotment or reluctanceto
     '  implement the -commitments.This may be noted for incorporating in the final
        report.                                                                     '  .




                                                                               -     .
                                                                                      . ... _-..
                                                                              . -   L




                                           F
                                           .. '




                                                  ...-... ....- ._.._.__...
                                                                      ..



