Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repolt No: 24279
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41140; PPFB-P2240)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 51.5 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA
FOR THE STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
06/17/2002
Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (1NR)
INR 1.00 = US$ 0.20
US$ 1.00 = 48
FISCAL YEAR
April I March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                         Asian Development Bank
BOT                         Build Operate and Transfer (contract)
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
DE                          Detailed Engineering
DEA                         Department of Economic Affairs (of the Indian Ministry of Finance)
EA                          Environmental Assessment
EMP                         Environmental Management Plan
GOI                         Government of India
HUDCO                       Housing and Urban Development Corporation
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IDS                         Institutional Development Strategy
MIS                         Management Information System
MOP                         Memorandum of the President
NABARD                      National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development
NDO                         New Delhi Office (of the World Bank)
NEC                         North Eastern Council
NHAI                        National Highway Authority of India
OED                         Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PAP                         Project Affected Person
PCC                         Project Coordinating Consultants
PIPF                        Project Identification and Preparation Framework
PMGSY                       Prime Minister's Rural Road Program
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
PWD                         Public Works Department
QAG                         Quality Assurance Group (of the World Bank)
RAP                         Resettlement Action Plan
ROB                         Railway Overbridge
R&R                         Resettlement and Rehabilitation
SOS                         Strategic Options Study
TA                          Technical Assistance
TORs                        Terms of Reference
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:  Guang Z. Chen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alok Nath Bansal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENT'S
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 11
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   18
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  2 3
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  2 5
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  2 8
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  2 9
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  3 0
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     3 1
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 32 
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                   3 4
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P045600                                      Project Name: States' Road Infrastructure
Development Technical Assistance Project
Team Leader: Alok Nath Bansal                            TL Unit: SASEI
i CR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR         Report Date: June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: States' Road Infrastructure Development Technical  LICITF Number: SCL-41140;
Assistance Project                                           PPFB-P2240
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/17/1996                             Effective: 02/14/1997         02/14/1997
Appraisal:  06/24/1996                               MTR: 06/30/1999            08/09/1999
Approval:  12/05/1996                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/DEA
Other Partners:  Participating State Governments: Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan,
Tamil Nadu, Orissa, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala, Manipur, Mizorani,
Tripura, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin R Lim                               Edwin R Lim
Sector Manager:      Guang Z Chen                              Jean-Francois Bauer
ream Leader at ICR:  Alok Nath Bansal                         Ernst Huning
ICR Primary Author:  Piers Vickers; Douglas Gray
,. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  At the time of its appraisal, the design of the States Road Infrastructure Development Technical
Assistance project, hereafter referred to as the 'TA project', was clearly related to the Government of India's
(GOI) and many State governments' priorities. In the mid 1990's, the GOI and some few states were active
in seeking new ways of providing affordable and sustainable road infrastructure. Some important reforms
were already taking place at the national level - for example the initial creation of the National Highways
Authority of India plus concessioning of commercially viable road sections. There was a continuing and
endemic tension within the middle and senior level staff in road agencies regarding in-house and monolithic
infrastructure delivery versus more modem approaches emphasising commercial, transparent and strategic
sector management. The TA project came at an opportune time to facilitate the replication and expansion of
embryonic national level reforms at the state level.
3.1.2  The TA project design was finnly embedded in the approach to development assistance set out in
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (May 1995). This identified a number of themes for the Bank's
future partnership with India including: (i) increasing focus on state level sector issues, (ii) assistance in
creation of frameworks for private sector investment in infrastructure, and (iii) greater emphasis on
ensuring that lending was financially sustainable. All these broader concerns highlighted in the 1995 CAS,
alongside specific transport sector recommendations, were incorporated into the design of the TA project.
3.1.3  Finally, the agenda mapped out in the Bank's 1995 India Transport Sector Long Term Issues
Report was again largely taken into account during the design of the TA project in areas such as: (i)
working with more progressive state road agencies, (ii) tackling absorptive capacity constraints by building
skills in road agencies and the construction industry, (iii) increasing service efficiency and quality by
greater outsourcing of project planning, design and supervision activities, and (iv) providing opportunities
for road user representatives to have a voice in sector management.
3.1.4  With this context in mind, the TA project had three realistic and achievable development objectives
which it sought to fulfill in at least six and up to 12 states:
(i) Support reformns to planning, financing, provision, maintenance and management of road
transport infrastructure by states' road agencies,
(ii) Support comprehensive preparation of major road infrastructure investment proposals aimed
at improved efficiency of states' road transport network, and
(iii) Assist states towards increased privatization of roads engineering, construction, works
supervision and maintenance services in the sector.
3.1.5  The TA project at appraisal closely matched India's confirmed sectoral priorities and was clearly
responsive to client demand. There are three indicators for measuring client demand for the project They
include: (i) the number and speed of states responding to the offer of funds for TA by meeting the
requirements for project participation (see table 3.1 overleaf), (ii) the disbursement profile, and (iii) the fact
that almost all the original loan amount was used. These indicators or proxies clearly demonstrate the
relative eagemess with which the TA project was received by 16 of the 30 states in India. The experience
of 'demand estimation' under this TA project is in contrast to TA projects in other sectors in India where
disbursement lags and substantial partial loan cancellations have proved the norm - indicating
over-estimation of client demand at appraisal (e.g. Environmental Capacity Building TA Project P043728).
- 2 -



T'able 3.1    Tinming of States Meeting All Participation Requirements
State                   Date DEA Request to Bank was Made
TA Project effectiveness February 14 1997
Rajasthan                             March 3, 1997
Andhra Pradesh                        March 19, 1997
Gujurat                               April 10, 1997
Tamil Nadu                            June 3, 1997
Haryana                               July 7, 1997
Mizoram                               November 19, 1998
Orissa                                November 19, 1998
West Bengal                           November 19, 1998
Manipur                               November 19, 1998
Kerala                                April 16, 1999
Karnataka                             June 23, 1999
Madhya Pradesh                        October 8, 1999
Uttar Pradesh                         December 6, 1999
Tripura                               November 20, 2000
3.1.6  In terms of how demanding the TA project was for borrowers, States had to meet a number of
entry conditions to qualify for accessing loan funds. They included: (i) the issuance of a Letter of Sector
fEolicy that outlined broadly the government's commitment to an agenda of policy, institutional, and sector
financing reforms, (ii) written acceptance of the model Project Preparation and Implementation Framework,
(iii) written acceptance of the use of model terms of reference for Project Coordinating Consultant services,
and (iv) the signing of a Participation Agreement between the GOI and State. Up to 15 States were
i,ientified in the MOP as being potentially eligible, plus a further 10 Special Category States (Northem and
tNorth Eastern States); however, at the time of appraisal the Borrower and Bank team were only
comfortable to commit themselves to the full participation of six states. For some states, elements of the
access conditions proved politically and institutionally taxing; for example accepting the use of
international consultants in project preparation and the issuance of a Resettlement and Rehabilitation
(RP&R) Policy. With hindsight, a reasonable balance was struck between focus, flexibility and scale. The
entry hurdles were strict enough to enable state self-selection which allowed the Bank to concentrate its
supervision resources on those states that were more committed to reform. Simultaneously, they were not
too strict as to prevent an adequate number of states from qualifying and thereby losing the potential to
capture some economies of scale and country-wide momentum.
2.1.7  In contrast to TA project entry, actual project implementation was, in operational terms, less
clemanding for the various borrowers. For state borrowers, the project required largely management of
consultants preparing the various studies, in itself not an especially demanding task. However, state PWDs
as the principal clients of the TA project, were also obliged to undertake far higher levels of coordination
with other state bodies than was previously the case; for exarnple with state environmental control bodies,
cLepartrnents of finance, district revenue departments, state traffic police and road user bodies. This was a
cLeparture from their usual somewhat isolationist nature and made the TA project both more demanding and
a, learning opportunity for their staff as a result. However, these tasks were well within the capability of
reasonably competent state road agencies, even if assistance from Bank staff was required during
supervision - for example in terms of client understanding of procurement processes or facilitating greater
dialogue with other state government agencies. For DEA, the project entailed straightforward process
rnanagement and reporting plus reaching decisions, in collaboration with the Bank, on the allocation of
- 3-



external funding to states for TA plus follow on projects.
3.1.8 The TA project appears somewhat complex and risky - multiple clients geographically dispersed
and a substantive reform agenda attached. In regards to the latter point, the TA project envisaged that state
borrowers would undertake certain very broad and unspecific reform "targets" - including improved
procurement, establishment of basic asset management information systems, improved road maintenance
effectiveness, strengthened planning, increased sector financing and better traffic management. The project
design recognized the attainment of these reform targets would vary considerably by state. However,
although the TA project had a large number of clients and a wide range of anticipated policy and
institutional reforns, the risk of the aggregate impact of the project being derailed by a few poor
performers was minimized by flexibility in the project design that allowed resources to be directed towards
those states where more progress was being made and 'a first come first served principle' or policy based
selection process that created a form of competition amongst state borrowers.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Same as original.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Component 1 The main component of the loan was for project preparation and implementation
support
Cost          $52 million
This component had four sub-components in the following areas: (i) TA for engineering, economics,
environment, and social (R&R) pre-investment project preparations, (ii) TA for addressing states' priority
needs in capacity-building/training in project planning and management; procurement, contract and
financial management, (iii) TA for transfer of 'best practice' skills, methods, and/or technology to road
agencies and participating local industry, and (iv) investment in minor civil works for pre-investment pilot
study, demonstration and/or testing purposes.
3.3.2 Component 2 The second component was for the provision of policy support and institutional
development
Cost          $15.6 million
This component also had a number of sub-components, namely: (i) TA for development and
implementation by the states of effective medium-term action plans for policy, legal, structural,
organizational, staffing and/or resource improvements for sustainable road sector management reforns in
planning, financing, development, and maintenance of network assets, including facilitation of private
sector investment, (ii) TA for states' studies and development of action plans for sustainable improvements
to road maintenance policy and practices, and states' implementation of higher sustainable funding for road
maintenance, and (iii) TA for the development of effective plans for increased outsourcing of design,
supervision and construction.
3.3.3 Component 3 The final and smallest component was for project management
Cost          $400,000
This component was designed to ensure smooth overall project management and effective monitoring by
DEA of financial management, project outputs and project outcomes.
3.3.4 Overall project management responsibility was assigned to the Department of Economic Affairs
(DEA) rather than the sector Ministry for Surface Transport (MOST, now redesignated as the Road
Transport and Highways). At the time of Board approval, MOSTs own commitment to reforns was
questionable, it had yet to prove effective as an advocate of sector reforms at the state level, and was
- 4 -



siruggling to implement satisfactorily externally financed projects (such as the World Bank financed
NIational Highways II, Ln 3470/Cr2365-In). With hindsight, the arrangement with DEA as coordinator
has worked well. DEA has left the state road agencies finrly in control of project development and
technical issues. The decision taken during design to assign DEA as the coordinating body was an
irnportant factor in ensuring the success of the TA project.
3.3.5  The TA financed under the project was designed to be commissioned and managed by state road
agencies, typically Public Works Departments (PWDs). The road agencies were required to establish
dedicated project management teams or implementing units as well as government secretary level
"Empowered Committees" to oversee project preparation, resolve coordination issues and approve larger
contracts. States were to conduct all the preparatory activities detailed in a Project Identification and
Preparation Framework (PIPF) using consultants. The PIPF set down the step by step process for
preparing follow on investment projects. The majority of cletailed investment project preparation
(feasibility, design, safeguards, preparation of bidding documents) was to be undertaken by Project
Coordinating Consultants (PCC) while typically separate consultants were to be used for institutional
reviews and information technology studies.
3.3.6  The three components were clearly related to meeting the three development objectives; indeed,
there is overlap in the design logical framework between the project inputs, outputs and development
objectives. The allocations for project preparation and policy support were based on experience gained in
preparing previous state and national highway loans in India, most especially the Haryana and Andhra
Pradesh state highway projects which were under preparation using Project Preparation Facilities (PPF) at
the time of TA project appraisal. The estimated allocations for each component proved reasonably
aclcurate during actual implementation.
3.3.7  The TA project design adopted a number of relevant lessons leamed from previous Bank
experience in both the transport and other sectors - (i) inclusion of an explicit central project management
component, (ii) application of a 'first come, first served principle' or policy based lending in the allocation
o:f funds, (iii) employment of a model Project Identification and Preparation Framework which had been
developed in an iterative process during the preparation of previous projects for Andhra Pradesh and
Haryana, (iv) enforcement of entry conditions to which states had to subscribe to access loan funds to
promote self selection, and (v) decision maling taken by an empowered committee at state level. One
aspect that was highlighted in the Bank's 1995 Transport Sector Report but was not fully addressed in the
TA project design was that of road operations - for example, tackling the frequent stopping of freight
vehicles by various state government officials. Although the TA Project was designed to focus on the
irtfrastructure side of the sector in its stated goal of contributing to lower overall road transport costs, the
fact is that there has generally been an absence of analytical study and actual reform taking place on the
operations side over the life of the TA Project. The TA project made some modest contribution on this as
road operation issues were included in the institutional development studies commissioned under component
2. However, with hindsight, more focused analytical work to identify problems and options for road
operations reform might have further improved the impact of the TA project in its ultimate goal of reducing
the overall cost of road transport to the economy.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  There were only mninor changes made to the project components during implementation. First,
during the Mid Term Review, the sub-component for "investment in minor civil works for pre-investment
pilot study, demonstration and/or testing purposes" was dropped due to lack of demand and the allocation
for civil works ($4.2 million) to support this element reallocated to consultancy services. Second, although
there was a loan covenant requiring the Borrower to employ project management consultants in the
-5 -



Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) by April 1997, for which the $400,000 was provided, this was not
implemented. Therefore, loan funds were never disbursed against this component. Third, after taking
stock of past and remaining disbursements under the loan, DEA requested cancellation of US$5.0 million.
This amount was cancelled by the Bank on August 28, 2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  The TA project is rated as satisfactory in terms of quality at entry. The rating is made on the basis
of the following criteria: (i) consistency of the project development objectives with GOI and many state
government priorities, the CAS objectives and the Bank's Transport Sector Report applicable at the time of
appraisal, (ii) the clear demand from state clients for the lending product under offer from the TA project,
(iii) the project design which fully incorporated previous Bank experience in the sector as well as striking a
reasonable balance between adequate definition of inputs/outputs while not over-specifying and thereby
limiting freedom of action, (iv) careful selection of coordinating authority (DEA), and (v) the mitigation
measures put in place to manage project risks (e.g. inclusion of access conditions, project management
component, application of relevant safeguard policies).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1   Outcomes have proved variable both across the three objectives and across the TA project's
multiple clients - at least 12 participating states assumed at appraisal, 16 actually accessed funds. Annex I
provides the results of the TA project against the performance indicators established at appraisal.
4.1.2 This and subsequent sections are based on information gathered during and after the ICR mission,
including a stakeholders' workshop (see Annexes 8 and 9) in January 2002 (Aide Memoire available in
project files).
4.1.3  Objective 1. Supportreforms to planning,financing, provision, maintenance and management
of road transport infrastructure by states' road agencies. 11 states, including four states which are not
in the Bank's lending pipeline, have undertaken studies to prepare institutional development strategy (IDS)
studies to initiate their sector reform process (see section 4.5 for details). Five states (Andhra Pradesh,
Gujarat, Kerala, Mizoram and Karnataka) have started executing their IDS action plans during
implementation of follow-on investment projects. Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa have finalized
their IDS action plans after government endorsement. Others are either in the process of finalizing their
IDS action plan or awaiting final reports. Many states completed the preparation of formal policy
statements during the lifetime of the TA project.
4.1.4 The MOP anticipated that prior to negotiations for follow on investment loans, participating states
would actually implement some upfront actions on maintenance reforms and institutional strengthening
(see Project Activity Chart of MOP). An assessment of the level of upfront actions taken by participating
states has been made by reviewing the Appraisal Documents for subsequent investment loans (see Section
10). This review indicates that the TA project appears to have had a mixed impact on reforms. States
whose follow on projects have been more recently appraised have, in general, implemented or at least
started to implement more up front reform actions. Although it is impossible to measure, the prospect of a
follow on investment loan has almost certainly created a substantial incentive on states to implement
reforms - an incentive that most would intuitively accept exists. State clients felt that the TA project had
helped to raise the profile of the road sector and to bring the sector's financial and institutional problems to
the top of the agenda of political and bureaucratic decision makers. This is in itself an important
achievement For those states where the Bank does not have a follow on lending program, given data
- 6 -



constraints and absence of direct contact between Bank and concerned road agency staff, actual
implementation of reforms cannot be assessed with any degree of objectivity.
4.1.5  An assessment has also been made of the states' performance against the indicator on the adoption
of action plans to reduce shortfall of maintenance funds. Time series data on the adequacy of road
maintenance funds (actual vs. requirements based on reasonable norms, as a percent) suggests that again
progress in this critical area has been variable across the states (see Section 10). A number of states are
making documented commitments to increased levels of fuinding for maintenance and one has established a
working Road Fund (Uttar Pradesh). Moreover, many states are facing continuing if not worse fiscal
constraints than those present at the time of appraisal of the TA project. This is certainly a mitigating
factor. However, the mixed result in this area is an important shortcoming in the overall impact of the TA
project.
4.1.6  Another useful if difficult to measure indicator of achievement of this development objective is the
degree to which the management processes employed for preparing the follow on projects have
subsequently been employed by states in non Bank financed projects. There is some evidence to suggest
that this is happening. The following examples are cited here: (i) Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have
created separate new budget line items to cover project preparation and human resource development, (ii)
Karnataka RDC Ltd contracted out the rehabilitation and maintenance, plus supervision thereof, of the core
road network using international standards of procurement, (iii) Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh PWDs have
both started to implement their own ambitious IT investment strategies using the private sector to deliver
hardware, software, training and support, (iv) Gujurat Roads and Building Department (RBD) has adopted
an updated procurement process and bidding documents largely based on Bank standards and (v) Andhra
Pradesh RBD is using its own pavement management system to identify sections for periodic maintenance
works.
4.1.7  Although for practical reasons there were no indicators set to monitor the quality of the Project
Coordinating Consultant (PCC) services and their success at transferring skills to PWDs, it is clearly
important to consider this aspect when assessing the achievement of this objective. Using the results of the
ICR workshop as one indicator, albeit subjective, suggests that the road agency clients perceive that there
has been some transfer of skills to the staff directly involved in project preparation. However, technology
and skills dissemination to the far more numerous non-project agency staff has, according to the intended
beneficiaries, been limited (see histogram in Annex 8). Consultants who are performing the PCC role
appear to perceive that success in transferring skills has been mixed (see Annex 8). Certainly, one needs to
interpret these results with some caution in that PWD perceptions may be coloured by persisting beliefs
house capacity, and there being few incentives to upgrade skills when promotion is not dependent on
possession of such skills. Indeed, improving the management of human resources within state PWDs has
generally been, and is likely to remain, one of the most problematic areas in the sector for reform due to its
close linkage with broader civil service issues. However, it can be concluded that skills transfer has been
substantially below the expectations held during appraisal, at least by the clients.
4.1.8  On balance, the achievement of this objective is rated as satisfactory.
4.1.9  Objectve 2. Support comprehensive preparaton of major road infrastructure investment
proposals aimed at improved efficiency of states' road transport network The MOP had anticipated
that at least six states would access World Bank investment loans by the end of the TA project. The Bank
has approved three investment loans prepared under this project, Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project
(US$350 million, July 1997), Gujurat State Highway Project (US$381 million, September 2000) and
Karnataka State Highway Improvement Project (US$360 million May 2001). A further two investment
- 7 -



loans, for Kerala and Mizoram, were approved shortly after loan closing in the third quarter of FY02. The
Uttar Pradesh State Road Project has been appraised and is due for Board approval early in FY03, whilst
the Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project is due for appraisal at the end of FY02 for Board approval in FY03.
In addition, the Asian Development Bank is proposing to finance a State Highway Project in Madhya
Pradesh, partially prepared under this project, with Board approval programmed for their FY 02. Although
only three stand-alone, state-level road projects were approved during the life of the project, two additional
projects were approved within a few months of loan closing and a further two more are close to approval.
Therefore, performance against this particular and important target has been substantially achieved.
Moreover, all these projects have been prepared with proper consideration to economic, engineering,
institutional, environment and social issues. The process of selecting road stretches for upgrading was
transparent and holistic which served to produce investment plans that were more convinciiig to political
and bureaucratic decision makers. During the ICR workshop, a representative from one state road agency
clearly identified the impact of the TA project on raising the quality and efficiency of the project
preparation process. His views can be considered broadly representative of other states and as such are
replicated in this ICR (see Section 10). A complete list of documentary outputs funded under the TA
project can be found at Annex 1.
4.1.10 A good indicator of the achievement of this development objective is the success during
implementation of follow on projects. Those projects that have already been approved are all currently
making satisfactory progress under implementation; certainly far better progress than experienced in the
previous or first generation of Bank highway loans to India (State Roads Project (Ln2994/Cr 1959-IN) and
National Highways II (LN3470/Cr2365-IN)). Areas of improved performance of these second generation
projects compared to the first generation include: (i) lower disbursement lags, (ii) greater attention to
proper implementation of environmental and social safeguards, (iii) improved project and financial
reporting, and (iv) more timely procurement and effective contract administration. The Karnataka State
Highway Improvement Project was assessed for quality at entry by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group in
July 2001 and found to be satisfactory. Part of the reason that these projects are proving more successful
in implementation may be that they are more "implementable" in that they are prepared and delivered by
states. Coordination is very largely limited to state level agencies only and the sometimes difficult
federal/state relationship is absent from the mix.
4.1.11 Some states did not successfully graduate from the TA project (Orissa, Haryana, Rajasthan and
West Bengal) although substantial project preparation activities had taken place. This failure of states to
graduate was the result of a number of factors including: (i) change in state government priorities
(Haryana, Rajasthan, Orissa), (ii) state fiscal constraints (West Bengal, Orissa), (iii) change in PWD
leadership (Haryana, Rajasthan and Orissa) and (iv) the impact of Bank Board's inability to process non
human needs projects (after nuclear weapons testing by India in 1998) during 1998-2000 which effectively
stalled much of the project's momentum.
4.1.12 Overall, the achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory.
4.1.13 Objective 3. Assist states towards increased privatization of roads engineering, construction,
works supervision and maintenance services in the sector. The first indicator for this objective is the
number of states that completed studies on relevant reforms to facilitate private sector participation. While
no state undertook a separate study to identify specific reforns, the issue was covered at least partially in
all eleven IDS studies conducted. Hence, the TA project exceeded its target for preparation of studies on
private sector participation.
4.1.14 An attempt was made to quantify the progress by all the participating states on the degree of
- 8 -



outsourcing employed by issuing a questionnaire to the states through DEA four months prior to loan
closing. However, the response from the states on this particular issue was inadequate to draw solid
conclusions. It has proved difficult to assess objectively and accurately the performance indicator set
dluring appraisal on the number of states that have implemented substantial outsourcing. A tentative figure
of 7 has been entered in Annex 1. The following indicate that the level of outsourcing has increased: (i) all
the participating states are employing private sector consultants and contract6rs for the services funded
umder follow on projects, which is generally a big share of their current workload, and (ii) some states have
also started outsourcing services for planning, design, information management and maintenance in general
(Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu). ICR
workshop participants felt that the TA project had successfully demonstrated the benefits in outsourcing
and the need for enhancing procurement processes. An additional outcome of the TA project is the
considerable transfer of technology from international to domestic consultants. In the longer term, this will
provide a significant pool from which future service delivery can be competitively procured.
4.1.15 An assessment was made of the number of states that adopt action plans for facilitating increased
private sector financing of roads. All of the state road policies produced during the period of the TA
project (either endorsed or in draft) contain reference to governments' intention to seek greater private
sector involvement in service delivery and funding. Several participating states have created Road
Development Corporations (e.g. Andhra Pradesh, Gujurat, Kamataka, Kerala) that are bringing some
private sector fiuds to the sector through either corporate borrowing (e.g. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka) or
through leveraging partial public subsidies against private project finance (e.g. Tamil Nadu, Gujurat).
New initiatives in this field are not confined to participating states. For example, although their
involvement in the TA project has been very limited, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have both been
very innovative in experimenting with new approaches (e.g. creation of Maharashtra Road Development
Corporation, Madhya Pradesh entering into a number of maintain and transfer concessions with the private
sector). However, most state clients feel that the scope for private funding of roads is, in any case, still
limited in India due to numerous reasons; some of which may be outside the control of state governments
and road agencies. Hence, only a modest amount of weight should be given to this particular indicator.
4.1.16 The achievement of this third objective is rated as satisfactory overall.
4.1.17 Additional Development Outcomes. One very important additional development outcome from
the TA project, as expected during appraisal, has been the growth of a network of professional staff in a
substantial number of states that regularly interact to share best practice (see lessons learned section).
These senior road agency staff have started to compete for professional recognition which, provided there is
continuity in leadership, is likely to result in a significant raising of standards in all aspects of road asset
management. The TA project has facilitated this process through: (i) encouraging standardization, (ii)
providing experience sharing opportunities through workshops, email networks etc, and (iii) focusing on the
collection and dissemination of information to ensure people are better able to compare performance.
4.1.18 The MOP anticipated that the TA project would provide a 'demonstration effect' for other non
participating states to follow. However, there was no monitoring system in place to assess this hypothesis;
perhaps such a system is not practical. There is only lirnited anecdotal evidence to suggest that
participating states have been sharing ideas and experiences with non participating states. This is in
contrast to the significant demonstration effect between participating states as noted in the paragraph
above.
4.1.19 Conclusion on development outcomes. The TA project is rated as satisfactory overall for
development outcomes - i.e. the project achieved most of its major relevant objectives and has achieved or
-9-



is expected to achieve satisfactory development results. The satisfactory rating is consistent with the
survey undertaken by the participants of the stakeholders' workshop (see histogram in Section 10) which
demonstrates the varied perception of the impact on key processes targeted under the project - some strong
areas (e.g. procurement, technical standards, information management) and some weaker areas (e.g transfer
of skills to PWD staff, private sector investment).
4.1.20 Coming to a firm conclusion on the achievement of development outcomes is complicated by the
difficulty in defining the 'without TA project case' as a counterfactual argument to the hypothesis that the
TA project has been instrumental in delivering the first and third development outcomes on reform and
private sector participation. It is difficult to say whether some of the initiatives undertaken by participating
states might have been undertaken even in the 'without TA project case'. There are examples over the
period of the TA project of non or limited participating states that have also been undertaking institutional
reforms and greater engagement of the private sector (e.g. Maharashtra, Punjab). The sector has
progressed over the last few years, and while the TA Project has contributed to the positive trend, it has
been by no means the only force at work.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  There is no clear distinction made in the MOP between objectives and outputs; so for the purposes
of evaluation the two have been assessed together in section 4.1 above.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  Cost effectiveness. As predicted during appraisal, the TA project has proved cost effective at an
aggregate level when the total loan arnount disbursed (US$44.4 million with some loan funds also provided
in Andhra Pradesh and Haryana as Project Preparation Facilities prior to the TA project.) is compared with
the US$2.5 billion in lending (US$3.2 billion in total investment) that it has or will shortly facilitate (see
last table Annex 2). The TA project represents less than 2% of the investment costs of the follow on
projects it generated and is expected to have a significant impact on the quality and efficiency of execution
of these specific project investments as a minimum. In addition, it is expected that other non Bank financed
investments will also benefit from the improved planning and management systems developed within a
number of Indian road agencies under the TA project.
4.3.2 However, some state representatives voiced their concern that the cost of individual project
preparation was too high. Moreover, for some project preparation work follow up funding has yet to
materialize or materialized so late that substantial redesign had to take place - $7.2 million of project
preparation activities have yet to find follow on project funding (see last table in Annex 2) although other
funding sources (e.g. NABARD, HUDCO, Central Road Fund) can reasonably be expected to support
actual implementation of designs prepared under the TA project. Most of the unused preparatory work is
in those states that did not graduate form the TA project (see para 4. 1. I1 for reasons), although some
design work has also been put on the shelf as state highways were reclassified as national highways. This
amount of preparatory work that potentially will not implemented is regrettable but not unusually high.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1   The institutional development studies financed under the TA project were unprecedented in the
recent history of probably all the state road agencies covered and for the sector as a whole in India. The
studies essentially: (i) conducted an institutional audit to identify strengths, weaknesses and changes in
extemal environment, (ii) recommended associated reforms to address identified policy and institutional
- 10 -



shortcomings, and (iii) prepared an explicit time bound institutional development action plan to implement
the reforms. In theory, the studies were conducted through widespread consultation both within and outside
the road agencies; though this was not always the case in practice. The studies have generated a large
amount of data and information which has and will prove a valuable resource to state governments and
external funding agencies, including the GOT.
4.5.2  The main areas covered by the institutional development action plans generally included
recommending improvements to: (i) the regulatory environment, (ii) road agency organization and
rmnanagement, (iii) sector financing, financial management and strategic financial planning, (iv) core
processes such as project planning, design, procurement, supervision and traffic management, (v)
!information management, and (vi) human resource management. Where the Woild Bank has financed
Follow on projects, state governments have endorsed their action plans and incorporated them as explicit
project components.
4.5.3  The institutional development impact is assessed as modest overall. The reasons for this
assessment are largely covered in section 4.1 above which concludes that the impact in this area, in
particular on the actual implementation of reforms and technology transfer to PWD staff, has been mixed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
.5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  A number of factors fall under this category. First, the Bank Board's was unable to approve "non
human needs" projects during 1998-00, after India carried out nuclear tests. This resulted in uncertainty
concerning follow on investment loans, delays in project processing (e.g. Gujarat State Highway Project),
and loss of some momentum that had been building on the Bank financed highway program. Second, the
'Bank's limited delivery capacity forced the prioritization of investments and the staging of participation of
interested states (e.g. projects in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra). Third, the Bank's prerequisite that
states undertake a fiscal review of state finances alienated some states from borrowing from the TA project
('e.g. West Bengal). Other less important factors included (i) the poor security situation in certain states
dissuaded the Bank from pursuing lending there more vigorously (e.g. some North East States), (ii) lack of
private sector confidence to invest in road development (certainly governments can make an environment
more conducive to private finance but in the short run this aspect may lie outside government control), and
(iii) frequent changing of key PCC personmel delayed project activities and contributed to the souring of
relationships between client and consultant (e.g. Mizoram, Madhya Pradesh). All these external factors
had a partial effect on the delivery of the overall TA project outcome through induced delays in project
processing.
.5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
:5.2.1 The following factors fall under this category: (i) re-designation of state roads into National
HIighways created interruptions and delays in project preparation (e.g. Orissa, Madhya Pradesh), (ii)
frequent transfer of senior management in both state secretariats and road agencies resulted in discontinuity
in leadership and therefore less effective championship of the reform process, (iii) delays in contract
approvals and endorsement by the State Government created discontinuity and delays (e. g. Tamil Nadu,
ODrissa), and (iv) in some states limited involvement of stakeholders outside government in contributing to
]DS strategy formulation (see Annex 8). These factors had a partial effect on the delivery of the overall
project outcome through both induced delays in project processing and weaker internal leadership/external
pressure to drive the reform process.
.5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 In many states there was a lack of continuity of PWD staff, especially project directors, which
- 1 1 -



resulted in an inconsistent approach and less effective coordination with external agencies and consultants.
This was at times aggravated by poor PWD control over the activities of consultants and a lack of
understanding of the separation of roles between PWD project implementation teams and PCCs (e.g.
Orissa). Furthermore, the PWDs as well as several PCCs had limited understanding and devoted
inadequate financial and human resources to address and carry out the necessary environment and social
assessments. At the central level, the lack of appointment of a consultant as a dedicated financial manager
at DEA resulted in inconsistent and at times incomplete reporting and inefficient project management by
DEA, states and the Bank (for example, in tenus of mid project reallocation decisions which were
complicated by lack of data). Moreover, there was generally weaker monitoring of progress in states that
were further behind in tenus of project preparation. All these factors together had a partial effect on the
delivery of the overall project outcome.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  The final expenditure on the project preparation component is largely as anticipated (see Annex 2).
However, the expenditure on the policy support component is substantially below that estimated during
appraisal. This is largely a result of: (i) in many states, the combining of all the sub-components under the
policy component into a single IDS study, and (ii) lower unit costs for each IDS study undertaken due to
the reduction in the planned scope of services and greater use of local consultants. In some cases, it is
difficult to disaggregate expenditures under the two main components as the sarne consultant was
contracted to perform both project preparation and policy studies without separate contracts (e.g. in Uttar
Pradesh where the Project Coordinating Consultant (PCC) was also contracted to undertake a maintenance
management study). US$5 million was cancelled by the GOI during the second half of CY200 1 as it
became apparent that the full loan amount was unlikely to be fully utilized.
5.4.2  Overall, the cost projections made during appraisal were accurate and disbursement delays modest.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The sustainability of the TA project outcomes are rated as likely in a substantial portion of the
participating states - i.e. as a minimum, all seven states that have accessed or are likely to access World
Bank loans for investment These states also represent the biggest borrowers from the TA project -
US$3 1.1 million from a total Bank disbursement of $43.8 million. This assessment can be made for the
seven states accessing World Bank investment funds, based on the following reasoning.
*   These seven states have or will make additional written commitments on sector imnprovements
through signing an investment Project Agreement with the World Bank
*   The seven states have generally established a sound sector policy environment.
*   Several states are starting to employ and properly resource the processes adopted under the TA
project on their own investments (see achievement of outcomes section).
*   The seven states all have core management teams of skilled staff that are able to oversee delivery
of future sector investments effectively, although high staff turnover continues to present a risk of
capacity leakage.
*   The economic, technical, financial, institutional and environmental viability of the investments
prepared under the TA project have been appraised by the Bank in six states and found to be
satisfactory.
*   The seven states have a clear incentive to sustain many of the outputs from the TA project as this
will improve the effectiveness of subsequent investments and their chances of accessing additional
external funding.
*   Follow-on investment projects financed by the Bank will continue and expand activities initiated
- 12 -



under the TA loan.
6.1.2  The sustainability for the project outcomes achieved in the other nine states that accessed funds
imder the TA project is less certain. As noted above, about $7.2 million worth of project preparation
linanced under the TA project is still awaiting follow on project funding. The prospects are reasonable that
the majority of this sunk preparation cost will eventually be substantially utilized on highway projects
linanced by other institutions such as NABARD, HUDCO and through the transfers from the Central Road
Fund. There is unfortunately no practical means by which to assess the sustainability of the policy reform
agenda in these states.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  The project has laid the foundation in at least seven states for more effective management of the
highways sector and more efficient delivery of highway construction, maintenance and operation. In these
states, the policy agenda is largely well accepted so 'transition to regular operations' is fairly assured
provided continuity of leadership and approach is maintained.
6.2.2  The outcomes of the TA project in the future can be monitored for those states that are included in
the Bank's current lending program using, amongst others, the following performance indicators: (i)
number of follow on projects with satisfactory disbursement profiles and implementation and development
objective ratings in Project Supervision Reports, (ii) % of follow on projects that are rated as satisfactory
in reviews by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (for quality at entry, supervision or ICR), (iii) number
of states that actually implement substantial reforms as assessed in subsequent ICRs, and (iv) number of
states that provide adequate (>80% of requirement) funding for maintenance. For the highway projects
being financed by the World Bank, there is/will be a monitoring and evaluation system in place to collect
this information.
6.2.3  Given the follow on investment that it generated and the number of Indian states that the TA
project impacted, it is a good candidate for a future impact evaluation by OED.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
!Bank
Z.l Lending:
7.1.1  Bank performance during project identification is rated as satisfactory. As noted above, the TA
project was fully consistent with the government's development strategy/priorities and with the Bank's
assistance strategy for the country. Use of the TA project rather than a multitude of state level Project
Preparation Facilities allowed for capture of considerable economies of scale and application of a
standardized framework which contributed to the overall development impact of the Bank's transport sector
lending prograni in India.
7.1.2  Bank performance during the brief period of project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The
project was largely prepared through a close collaboration between the Bank's Task Team and DEA. The
major technical inputs - i.e. the Project Identification and Preparation Framework, the model Policy Letter,
the model terns of reference for PCC services, project implementation plan - were prepared in house by
]3ank or DEA staff with feedback from potential state borrowers. The preparation of these technical inputs
r elied heavily on previous Bank experience in the sector in India, particularly the State Road Project (Ln
2994-N Cr1959-IN) and National Highways II Project (Ln 3470, Cr 2365-IN) under implementation as
well as the Andhra Pradesh (Ln 4192-IN), Haryana and National Highway mI (Ln 4559-IN) projects which
were under preparation, and relevant Bank Economic and Sector Work (e.g. India Transport Sector Long
Term Issues Report, 1995).
- 13 -



7.1.3  Bank performance during project appraisal is rated as satisfactory. The rating is based on the
following areas which were carefully appraised: (i) the commitment of the GOI and state level
implementing agencies, (ii) DEA process and financial management capacity, (appraised as needing
external support with the risk of weak DEA management actually transpiring, although unfortunately the
loan covenant on hiring outside help into DEA was never enforced), (iii) the appropriateness of the
financial package and the accuracy of the planned loan amount which was subsequently demonstrated by
90% use of the loan amount, (iv) careful selection of the central coordinating body to ensure than technical
wrangling and centre/state road agency rivalries did not delay state highway project processing, and (v)
consistency with applicable Bank safeguards (much effort was put into preparing model environment and
R&R documents). One area that might have been improved was adequacy of the performance indicators.
As noted in Annex 1, some of these are not amenable to easy and objective assessment
7.1.4  Overall, Bank performance during lending is rated as satisfactory. The final cost of Bank
preparation was unusually low due to: (i) the task manager during lending being paid for through a Trust
Fund, and (ii) concurrent preparation of specific state highway loans under which considerable conceptual
design for the TA project took place.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1   The supervision team paid adequate attention to fiduciary aspects. Project monitoring was
deficient from about Mid Term Review onwards as the Borrower did not produce biannual monitoring
reports as had been done previously - there had never been quarterly reports or documented annual reviews
of disbursement and allocations by state as agreed to during negotiations. The Bank was also never able to
enforce a satisfactory solution to the loan covenant requiring DEA to hire project management consultants,
although the task team continued to try to do so until 2001. The supervision inputs were generally
appropriate with a reasonable skills mix in the team (including substantial involvement of environment,
social safeguards and procurement staff but more limited involvement of financial management staff), high
involvement of Country Office staff (the TA project was managed from the NDO for most its life), on
average two missions per year after 1999, and a productive relationship with DEA and most state
borrowers throughout the project life. Project supervision appears to have been somewhat informal for the
first two years of its life - there are no Aide Memoirs for the period January 1997 to January 1999. During
the various beneficiary surveys conducted for this ICR, state borrowers did not identify Bank performance
as being inadequate (see Annex 8); although some of the consultants employed under the TA project
suggested that higher Bank supervision inputs would have been appropriate.
7.2.2 . Greater attention could have been paid by the Bank supervision team in helping borrowers prepare
the terms of reference (TORs) for PCC services, and in particular the customization of the TORs for
individual states. The TORs were a critical technical element of the whole TA project. Most state clients
felt that they had inadequate contractual leverage to obtain what they needed from the PCC (see lessons
learned section). Furthermore, the TORs have had to accommodate the evolution of various Bank
safeguard policies over the period of the TA project (e.g. inclusion of unanticipated additional
environmental, social and financial management aspects). This has at times been affected through
Variation Orders on existing contracts causing delays in some states.
7.2.3  The supervision team generally applied realistic project ratings and reporting. However, from
December 2000 to October 2001, the project was rated highly satisfactory in-the achievement of
development objectives. However, there was inadequate explanation by way of quantifiable evidence to
justify a rating of highly satisfactory. Furthermore, the basis for quantifying three of the performance
indicators was not made clear - figures were assigned to these indicators without adequate supporting
-14 -



m naterial or explanation to justify them. The quality and coverage of files is adequate for the purposes of
accounting for project delivery and understanding the project history.
7.2.4  Overall, the Bank's performance for supervision is rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Bank performance is rated as satisfactory overall.
,Borrower
.7.4 Preparation:
'7.4.1  There was a high level of cooperation between the client and Bank during project preparation, a
stage when the DEA was especially proactive. DEA took the initiative to convene a meeting of senior road
agency officials from all states during the appraisal mission which was invaluable in terms of assessing
*demand for the TA project and for refining the project's design parameters. DEA also negotiated with the
Bank in a constructive manner around important design issues such as access of special category states to
I oan funds, on lending arrangements, the model policy letter, disbursement procedures as well as project
;ize and planned allocations to states.
7.4.2  Many states also took a very constructive role during project preparation. Senior representatives
iFrom 18 states participated in the appraisal mission workshop convened by DEA. Representatives from
ifour states participated in loan negotiations. State officials were very eager for a TA facility to be made
available and provided generally positive feedback on the proposed conditions. The Aide Memoir of the
December 1996 preparation mission noted that seven states had already made substantive project
preparations and that a further six others showed serious interest.
7.4.3  Overall, borrower performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  At the state level, government implementation performance was satisfactory. As a condition of
entry into the TA project, state governments had to provide a sector policy letter acceptable to the Bank and
endorse the model Project Identification and Preparation Framework. These set out a solid foundation for
subsequent implementation. Most state govemments have displayed a commitment to these principles
during implementation, have appointed competent project directors and supporting staff in a timely manner
;nd generally ensured payment of consulting services on time; though there are cases of contract disputes
such as in Tamil Nadu and Orissa and of non payment for services such as in Madhya Pradesh (TA Project
activities were generally paid for through reirnbursement based on SOEs). There has also been minimal
government interference in operational decisions. One area which would have benefitted from additional
state government commitment is-on senior staff transfers - a broader civil service issue that cannot expect
I.o be adequately addressed in a project of this nature. Rapid turnover of senior management - for example,
Uttar Pradesh had five Engineers in Chief during the period 1996 to 2001 - has served to undermine the
potential impact of the reform actions anticipated under the TA project by effectively weakening the resolve
or capability of road agency leadership to implement reforms.
'7.5.2 Borrower performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory
7.6 Implementing Agency:
'7.6.1  The Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Ministry of Finance has proved an effective
process manager during implementation and a supportive partner to both the states and Bank in the
development of the road sector. However, there were two weaknesses on the DEA side in project
- 15 -



implementation. First, the standard of reporting and financial management, most especially the tracking of
disbursements to ensure that states did not spend more than they had been allocated, failed to live up to
what had been agreed during negotiations. However, the weakness in project monitoring and financial
management has had a negligible impact on the overall outcome of the TA project. Second, the intended
role of DEA to provide "lessons based advice and support" to new entrants and a medium of information
exchange between states was never properly played. States have had to rely more heavily on Bank
supervision support than planned and have not enjoyed the potential benefit of receiving more 'home grown!
advice from DEA. DEA could have ensured more balanced information reaching the states as well as a
higher degree of local ownership. This second weakness has probably had a more substantial impact than
the first on the project outcome. The failure of the DEA to appoint a private consulting firm to undertake
the role of a project processing and monitoring unit, as they had committed to do under a loan covenant,
very likely contributed to these two weaknesses.
7.6.2 At the state level, implementing agency performance has been mixed. In most cases, PWDs were
adequately staffed to procure and manage consulting services although getting non engineering staff
(environmental, social and financial staff) to be part of implementation teams has proved difficult. Some
states have proved better than others at managing consulting firms who in many cases were also providing
technical assistance services by way of technology transfer to PWD staff. The technology transfer aspect
of the TA project has not been as successful as had been anticipated at appraisal. Part of the reason for
this lies with the PWDs' lack of attention to this aspect in preparing TORs and their inability to ensure the
consulting firms actually delivered on the skills development outputs in their TORs. Financial management
was generally adequate and implementation delays modest for most states. However, it is very likely that
some states will not be entirely reimbursed for eligible expenditures under the project because
reimbursement claims were not filed in a timely manner with DEA prior to the closure of the loan account
This has been caused by states' lack of familiarity with the reimbursement claim process and lack of a
dedicated staff from DEA (i.e. project management consultant) to assist the states. Aside from the standard
financial management, procurement and reporting requirements, there were no dated covenants with which
states had to comply once they had met the access conditions of the TA project.
7.6.3  SOE procedures for the project were suspended for non receipt of audit reports for Andhra
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Gujarat for 1997-98 on February 11, 1999. After the audit reports
were received in July 2000, the suspension of SOE procedures was revoked. The audit reports for other
states and years were received in a timely fashion. Some reports were qualified with exceptions; most
common among the exceptions were ineligible expenditures and advances claimed as expenditures. These
were adequately resolved by States.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory overall.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Positive Lessons Learned. The following are the most important positive lessons learned from the
TA project and should be applied where possible in similar projects in the future.
*   Adoption by all participating states of a standardized Project Identification and Preparation Framework
(PIPF) made for efficient delivery of multiple project preparation, both for the states themselves, DEA
and the Bank. The concept might usefully be-applied in other sectors and regions. By having many
states all preparing projects and undertaling reforms simultaneously, substantial benefits can accrue by
way of (i) the creation of competition between agencies for peer recognition and funding (ii) provision
of experience sharing opportunities and (iii) cumulative growth in mutual support for tackling
- 16 -



opposition to sector reform.
o Technical Assistance is most effective in supporting policy and institutional reforms when these
reforms are linked to future investment support. State road agencies will respond positively to
appropriate incentives (i.e. in order to access external investment) in terns of more seriously applying
India's own environmental/social laws and regulations as well as international standards of
procurement and financial management.
4o Having a non sector specific body, in this case DEA, as the central implementing agency in this federal
country has been successful in delivering a TA project to time, quality and cost constraints and
achieving satisfactory development outcomes. Although this choice was made on an exception basis, it
goes to show that on occasion adopting atypical implementation mechanisms can work well.
8.2    Lessons to be Addressed in Future. The following lessons should be addressed in similar projects
in the future.
o The Bank's transport network does not have a 'good' (i.e. objectively verifiable and practical to collect)
set of performance indicators for institutional reform. Resources within the Bank should be devoted to
the development of some practical performance indicators that measure the impact of projects or
project components designed to address institutional constraints.
o   There is a need to build in, and for the Bank to closely supervise, more fornal mechanisms for the
involvement of non govenmuent stakeholders in project preparation, most especially the institutional
and policy reform elements - public private steering committees, periodic public workshops, public
newsletters etc.
The requirements during investment project preparation for meeting the environment and social
safeguards need to be consistently applied to avoid any perception from clients that goalposts are being
shifted or the bar is being periodically raised. Although it may prove essential to recategorise
investment projects from B to A (and hence for clients to be required to commission an independent
review) once more details become available during preparation or the project scope is changed, every
effort should be made to avoid this so as to minimise uncertainty for clients. Moreover, in future,
dividing techno-economic from safeguards work into two separate contracts with separate consultants
may work better than having a single consultant with independent safeguards review.
*   The use of dedicated project staff in Project Implementing Units (PIUs), has proved both an advantage
and a disadvantage. On the one hand, preparation has been more efficient with dedicated staff. On the
other hand, institution wide effects have been curtailed with, according to the clients' own perceptions,
low levels of technology transfer to agency staff outside the PIUs. The use of PlUs, at least in the early
stages of project preparation, may be the most practical response to a typical client's institutional
environment. However, these anrangements should be understood by all as transitional. A clear exit
strategy to propagate PIU skills and processes to the broader institution should be prepared up front
and then implemented in a timely way.
* The states' experience with the standard TORs for project coordinating consultancy services has been
mixed. The following options may be considered in similar project preparation services contracts in
future (i) secondment of a number of road agency staff to the project coordinating consultants (ii)
specifying explicitly in TORs the delivery of skills' development outcomes in road agency staff (iii)
payments made against outputs rather than on the basis of person months (iv) provision for liquidated
damages for non performance of contract conditions related to, for example, replacement of key
consultant team personnel or late delivery of outputs (v.) implementation of upfront efforts to build
client skills and capacity in critical areas such as procurement, contract negotiation and management,
business communication skills and thereby achieve a more informed client prior to initiation of a major
project preparation services contract and (vi) greater involvement and support of Bank staff to clients
in preparing similar TORs .
* The duration of project preparation has proved too long for some states both in practical terms (designs
- 17 -



going out of date) as well as psychological terms (client staff become disheartened by the long time
horizon). Section 5 gives the reasons for delays. The Bank needs to seek ways of reducing the
timeframe of project preparation without compromising quality and preparedness at Board approval.
Different lending instruments for infrastructure investment, for example an Adaptable Program Loan,
may be part of the answer to this.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The States TA loan made available project preparation funds on a definite and predictable basis and
provided a forum for 'demonstration effect' and experience sharing among participating states. In the
process it catalyzed renewed attention of several states on their highways sector. The
preparation/implementation of state highway development projects by Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat,
Karnataka, Mizoram, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu covering a total road length of 16751
kilometers and involving an investment of about US$2831.50 millions is a direct outcome of this States TA
loan project.
Inevitably there was a close linkage in the process and timing of the implementation of the States TA loan
and finalization of the follow-on investment projects for World Bank funding. While States in this category
derived numerous benefits (these are already described elsewhere in the Implementation Completion
Report) and were supported by close and regular Bank supervision; the supervision and guidance in respect
of the other participating States could have been more rigorous. For instance after having spent
considerable resources in commissioning feasibility studies and project reports, the next steps remain
unclear for these states.
A larger challenge in project design.would continue to be ensuring the intemalization, sustenance and
replication of the improved procedures and intemational 'best practices' introduced by such projects by the
implementing departments and agencies after the project closure.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Linkages Between TA Project and Achievement of Development Objectives
(See outcome performance indicators 1.2, 1.4 and 2.1 in Annex 1 )
10.1   Upfront Policy and Institutional Actions Taken by State Governments at time of Bank
Project Appraisal
10.1.1 The assessment of the development objective to support reforms has been undertaken by
identifying the actions noted during appraisal of follow on investment projects. The following up front
actions were identified and documented in respective PADs during appraisal. These reforms are in addition
to what all participating states had in any case to implement in order to enter the TA project and for their
investment projects to be considered for appraisal (i.e. signing of State Policy Letter and Participation
Agreement, written acceptance of PIPF, establishment of empowered tender committee, development of
PFMS, publication of R&R policy, detailed design/SA/EA to intemational standard and creation of
dedicated project management capacity).
- 18 -



Andhra Pradesh
Establishment of AP Road Development Corporation
Issuance of GO on establishment of Road Trust Fund
Gujurat
Publication of Road Development Policy
Establishment of Gujurat Road Development Corporation
Creation of two special purpose vehicles for financing public/privately funded highways
Haryana
None identified
Karnataka
Adoption of Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) strategic planning framework with increasing
allocation for sector
Publication of Infrastructure Policy
Constitution by CM of roads 'Task Force'
Amendment of Highways Act allowing private collection of tolls
Establishment of Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd. (KRDCL)
Procurement by KRDCL of 3 year rehabilitation/maintenance contracts on whole of state highway
network
Enaction of Kamataka Transparency in Procurement Act, 2000
Adoption of new procurement rules and delegation of authority within PWD
Preparation of an e governance strategy by PWD
Kerala
Endorsement of Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP) by GOK
*      Drafting of Road Development Policy
*      Drafting of Road Fund bill
*      Enaction of Kerala Highway Protection Act 1999
*      Establishment of Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala
Mizoram
Drafting of Highway Act
Drafting of Road Development Policy
States intent to introduce road fund
Orissa (PAD notyet prepared)
None identified
Tamil Nadu (PAD not yet prepared, actions anticipatedfor inclusion in PAD only)
Establishment of TN Urban Development Fund
Establishment of TN Road Development Corporation
Enaction of TN Transparency in Procurement Act, 2000
Drafting of Road Fund Bill and commitment during 1997/98 budget statement to implement
Establishment and implementation of Road Safety Fund
Uttar Pradesh
Publication of a Road Policy
19-



*      Establishment of Road Fund in 1998 with oversight committee including some private sector
representation
*      Drafting of policy for road maintenance by contract
*      Steady increase in non plan allocation for roads sector
- 20 -



]10.2  Progress with Reducing Maintenance Funding Gap
Table 10.2.1  Adequacy of Maintenance Funding
Expenditure/Requirement by FY
State           1997-98          1998-99         1999-00       2000-01
UP               80%              70%            65%           75%
Gujarat           45%              50%             45%           45%
TN               80%              60%            60%           60%
AP               80%              70%            750/o         75%
Karnataka*          25%              30%             30%           30%
Manipur**           25%              30%             15%           25%
lizoram***           50%              50%            50%            50%
Tripura           60%              40%             60%           75%
Kerala             5%               5%             10%            5%
'"Figures for Karnataka requirements were increased/decreased by 5% using year 1999-00 as the base.
'2*Figures for Manipur requirements were adjusted for 5% inflation using Year 2000-01 estimate as the
base.
'**Ratio for Mizoram was taken from the PAD dated Jan. 17, 2002 and applied across all years
Note that the figures are rounded to the nearest 5%
Source: Figures based on questionnaires sent to states, IDS studies, Bank appraisal documents
- 21 -



10.3   Impact of TA Project on Assisting Project Preparation Development Objective
Table 10.3.1 Presentation of State Representatve
Without TA Project            [             With TA Project
Pre-feasibility stage
No scientific approach to identify corridors,  Scientific and systematic approach for
rather based on judgment and prejudice    identification using internationally recognized
techno-economic principles
Choices driven by fund availability and thumb  Design of corridors based on engineering,
rule principles                           environment and social aspects
No general entitlement policy for PAPs     Project specific entitlement policy endorsed by
Government
Survey stage
Use of conventional instruments            Use of high tech instruments such as Intelligent
Total Station, Auto Traffic Counts etc
Manual data processing                     Computer assisted data processing using
RDBMS
Manual strip mapping                       Computerized mapping using advanced
software
Visual roughness survey                    Roughness survey using ROMDAS
Outdated and slow                          Accurate and fa
Design stage
Minor geometric improvement. Generally no  Geometric design carried out to international
bus bays, turning lanes, junction improvement,  standards considering speed and safety
drainage aspects, safety features
Pavement design usually as per availability of  Pavement design for 15 year life based on
funds - stereotyped                        international experience
No specific considerations for environmental  Consideration of environmental issues like
aspects                                    preservation of green tunnel, underpasses for
wild asses, slope protection, landscaping etc
No specific considerations of social aspects  Consideration of social issues like constricted
road design in urban areas, minimization of
___________________ _  _ ___ _  displacement and utility relocation
Documentation and Reporting
Conventional reporting                     Well prepared reports. Standard formats/MIS
No transparency                            Display of environmental and social reports for
public reference
No use of IT                               Computerized database e.g. for PAPs
Correlation with earlier report difficult  Location reference points for record of
encroachment and properties
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 No. of states that complete studies on  9                              11
maintenance reforms
1. 2. No. of states that adcpt action plans to 2-3                         Not possible to quantfy accurately or
reduce shortfall of maintenance funds                                      objectively
1. 3 No. of states that complete studies on  9                             11
institutional strengthening induding network
based planning
1.4 No. of states that adopt action plans for 3                            Not possible to quantify accurately or
institutional strengthening induding network                               objectively
based planning
2.1 No. of feasibility studies, DE, RAPs and 6                             See separate table below
EAs completed
2.2 No. of projects appraised        6                                     6
2.3 No. of projects approved         3                                     3, plus 2 negotiated
2.4 Km of detail engineering design  >3000                                 To be determined
2.5 No. of PCC services contracted    13                                   13
2.6 No. of pilot/demonstration studies  0                                  0
undertaken
3.1 No. of states that complete studies on  11                             11
relevant reforms to facilitate greater PSP
3.2 No. of states that implement substantive 7                             7 is best guess though not possible to
outsourcing*                                                               quantify accurately or objectively
3.3 No. of states that adopt plans for  4                                  Not possible to quantify accurately or
improved facilitation of private sector                                    objectively
investment in roads'
Note on Use of Performance Indicators. A problem encountered both during project supervision and
while completing the ICR, is that the assessment of achieving project objectives is hindered by the practical
difficulty in establishing reasonable and quantifiable outcome performance indicators for a technical
assistance project such as this. Although, the Memorandum of the President (MOP) did include outcome
indicators, some of these are either actually input indicators or open to broad interpretation or without
baseline comparators preventing clear analysis (e.g. 'number of states that complete maintenance studies' is
an input indicator or 'number of states that adopt action plans to reduce shortfall of maintenance funds' -
what specifically is meant by "adopt"?). However, this is not a failing of project design rather a reflection
of the limits of "state of the art" monitoring techniques for institutional reform, both at the time of appraisal
and indeed even now (see lessons leamed section).
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matriix                  Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
No differentiaton made between outcome
and output indocators In MOP
End of project
- 23 -



Table Al .1     Detailed Documentary Outputs from TA project
KAR YesYes               Ye         Ye    -   _   s       WaEive      Ys       Ys    Ye     e
AP       Yes         Yes                  IIS        Phase        Yes       Yes      Yes    Yes   Yes
category B_
ASM       yes*                  Yes        Yes                                                     No
G-UJ      Yes         yes                   n)S      Phase I & HIA  No b/c    yes      Yes   Yes   Yes
category B
HAR       Yes:        YsY                             Phase I                                      No
R Yes       ys         Yes       Yes        Phase I     Waiver     yes       Yes   Yes   Yes
KER       Yes         Ys                   IIYS       Phase I      Yes                Yes    Yes  Yes
MAN       Yes         yes                  yes         Phase I                               Yes   Yes
MAH       Yes                                                                                      Yes
MIZ       Yes         yes                  yes        Phase I     yes        Yes      Yes    Yes  Yes
MP       Yes         Yes       IYeS                    Yes                                  YY      s
ORI       Yes         yes                  II)S       Phase I                                     Yes
RJ   Yes         yes                  II)S       Phase I                         yes          Yes
TN       Yes         Yes                   IDS        Phase I   By GOTN     Yes       Yes    Yes  Yes
TRI**     Yes         Yes        Yes        yes    350km & Bridges_                           Yes  No
UP   *   Yes         Yes                  Yes         Phase I     Yes       yes      Yes    Yes   Yes
WB .     Yes         YesIDS                           Phase!                                      Yes
NEC       No                                                                           =      =    N
Notes
(i)     SOS studies for NE States financed under the loan, all the rest were financed by states themselves as a
condition of entry into the TA project
(ii)    Most states used the IDS study to undertake a review of/make recommendations for their maintenance
management systems
(iii)   For Mizoram and Manipur, the IDS and Maintenance Management studies were clubbed with the main
PCC contract
(iv)    Karnataka was reclassified during preparation from category B to A, but a waiver from undertaking an
independent environmentalsocial audit was granted
-24-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro-ect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
Consultant Services                               47.80         43.70            90
Civil Works                                        4.20          0.00             0
Equipment                                          1.00          0.10            10
Taxes and Duties                                  15.00          13.14           88
Total Baseline Cost                               68.00         56.94
Physical Contingencies                            0.00          0.00             0
Price Contingencies                               0.00          0.00             O
Total Project Costs           68.00          56.94
Total Flnancing Required           68.00          56.94
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB       Procurement Method         N B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other'    _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                    4.00         0.20         0.00        0.00         4.20
(3.62)       (0.18)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.80)
2. Goods                    0.80         0.00         0.20         0.00        1.00
(0.80)      (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (1.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        47.80         0.00       47.80
(Consultant Services and   (0.00)       (0.00)       (46.70)      (0.00)     (46.70)
Training)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        (.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       ((.00)
Total                     4.80         0.20        48.00        0.00        53.00
(4.42)       (0.18)      (46.90)       (0.00)     (51.50)
The figures without parenthesis in the above table reflect the Project costs without tax expenses (estimated
at appraisal to be US$15 million) which is the format that was followed in the MOP. This brings the total
project cost to US$68 million.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     [CB       P          M               N.B.KF.   Total Cost
Wes         Other     _ _ _ _ _ __       _ _
1. Works                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.13        0.00        0.13
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0. I 0)     (0.00)      (0. 1 0)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        56.81        0.00        56.81
(Consultant Services and   (0.00)       (0.00)      (43.70)      (0.00)      (43.70)
Training)
- 25 -



4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00          0.00          56.94         0.00         56.94
(0.00)        (0.00)        (43.80)       (0.00)       (43.80)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govt.  CoF
Project Preparation and  40.50    12.15               37.60     11.28             92.8   92.8
Implementation Support
Policy Support and      12.30      3.70               6.20      1.86              50.4   50.3
Institutional Development
Project Management       0.35     0.11                          0.00               0.0    0.0
The project was 100% Bank financed. Government component covered tax expenses which were
calculated at 30%. A math error was identified in the MOP which explains the US$0.15 million difference
of the total appraisal estimate, for Bank financing by component US$53.15 million versus US$53.00
million for Bank financing by procurment arrangement. The total project cost (appraisal estimate) by
component (US$69.11 million) is US$1.11 million higher compared to US$68 million given in the table by
procurement arrangement.
- 26 -



Project Costs by State (in US$ million)
OdgA~~~~~A A]A
S_eO                                 Tod OrCgnalr                               TodalFnal     Poject     Ski7of  SizeofL4oan
Pokyuppol  PjedPep.  Caanrnlted                                PJk S -  mjdrp. Aoalon  Funded  Project  Credi
Policy Suppat EproJEd        Ce         Pok7&nWrt     Ptroject Prq      lein         E         ljet     Cei
& ID Am   s Dbum      ts                & ID Amwunb   Dlxuseznts
ludukfa Pades      0.70         3.00           3.70             _     2,850,473           2.85      WB         486       350
)marn                              -                     -                   -            050
Ililur              _                 .                         _            _
(ia                 -                             -_
Coat               0.70         3.50           4.20        343,507    6,738,720           7.15      WB         533       381
Flayam             0.70         1.50           2.20             -     1,335,658           1.40
i(SUMWM            0.70         2.00           2.70        391,789    3,382,809           3.20      WB         447       360
Emwa                 -     -                      -       1,512,288   3,801,415           450      WB-IP       340       255
hNfarashtr         0.70         2.50           3.20                          -            0.40
MIpur               -                             -                    1,534,333          1.40
San                 -                             -             -      1,602,656          2.10     WB-IP        65         56
bdlyaPdes          0.70         2.50           3.20             .       791,385           1.60    ADB-IP       325       250
Ceis=s             1.00         2.50           3.50        306,750    2,263,355           3.00
Pjab               0.70         3.50           4.20                          -             -
R    gasmn         0.70         3.50           4.20        489,841    2,719,617           3.12
Tun lNadu          1.00         3.50           4.50        669,183    4,968,408           6.80     WB-IP       450        366
T*=                 -                             -             -       101,942           0.80
UttarPiadesb       0.70         3.00           3.70         183,548   3,801,415           4.50     WB-EP       601       482
feBangl            1.00         2.50           3.50        308,624     1,599,183          2.90
NEC                1.15         4.00           5.15             ..           -            0.20
Unlocatld          1.85         3.00           4.85             _                          -
GO'DE'A             -           0.35           0.35                          _            0.01
CNnliIg-                 I            I          _   I_I                   -            0.07                         _     -
1230        40.85           53.15      4,205,531   37,491,370         46.50           -     3,247     2.500
NA=:
1) IDS Actw ADocaions w  dd using  caa bmnod
2) POC Sevice Acual ARlocabns ued toal dsb mnitsl by Ste Ti8e amouCI do not includc SOE e u  which me eslad to be abow USS2rn
3) PNect mnnagrant of dte Policy St wrd a nstih& cmal DevelopmetndtojectPzqa   cornpoverits as adte asities was ab xoned at or momud e nridemn of fte psoje m
iezofag   cofmmitnianty Sbytt TFhezfo, the Acal Poicy SotandpProjePqaPoneXats m ties abwe tablewee usedaspicxtomrana ep s by cmTpot
4) WB4P cfzs toprojects 'in p,gs" tobe financi by the World Bank. ADB-IP reftestoproects "in progia tobe finnaced by de Asian Develkpnei BanIt
5) The L1niotreditanmuts fir prec "m proun" are subject tD diusneots dwmig Eaeuoas
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identlflcatfon/Preparation
03/96
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/96                       4    Inst Spec, 2 x Highway
Engrs, Ops Offr
12/96                       3    Inst Spec, Highway Engr, Fin
Analyst
Supervision
06/97                        1   Prin Trans Spec                    S             S
04/98                        1   Prin Trans Spec                    S             S
01/99                        3   Prin Trans Spec, Prog Asst,        S             S
Consultant
08/99                       15   Highway Engrs x 3, Trans           S             S
Planner, Inst Spec, Ops Adviser,
Env Spec, FM Spec, SD Spec x
4, Prog Asst, Team Assts x 2
04/00                        3   Trans Planner, Fin Analyst, team   S             S
Asst
12/00                        3   Trans Planner, Prog Analyst,       S            HS
team Asst
06/01                        4   Trans Planner, Trans Econ,         S            HS
Trans Spec, Team Asst
10/01                        7   Trans Planner, Trans Econ,         S             S
Trans Spec, Highway Engrs x 3,
Team Asst
ICR
01/02                       5     Trans Planner, Trans Spec         S             S
x2, Inst Spec, Team Asst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ c(00)
Identification/Preparation                 3                           4
Appraisal/Negotiation                      10                         20
Supervision                              304                         693
ICR                                        7                          23
Total                                    324                         740
The figures for identification plus appraisal/negotiation cover only the inputs of the Task Manager who
was not a Bank financed staff member. His costs were met by a Trust Fund. No other costs for bank staff
are found in the Cost Accounting System for lending. It is assumed that other staff working on lending
were charging their time to state specific highway project preparation codes (e.g. Haryana, AP)
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Sector Policies                     O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Ol Physical                            O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Financial                            O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
LI Institutional Development           0 H   O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
LO Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      ON   * NA
L Private sector development           0 H   * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H   * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
'Z Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS       O   u  Q HU
' Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
I Government implementation performance             0 HS * S     0 U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 O HS * S     0 U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 31-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Identification and Preparation
* Proposed State Highways Projects (various); Pre-Identification and Preparation Review
Consultations, Back to Office Report, December 1995
* Proposed Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project, Proposed State Highways III Project
(Gujarat and Rajasthan), Proposed State's Road Infirastructure Improvement TA Project,
Proposed Third National Highway Project, Preparation Missions: Back to Office Report, July
1996
Appraisal and negotiation
*   Proposed Technical Assistance Project for States' Road Infrastructure Development
-Appraisal Mission; Back to Office Report, Aide Memoire June 26-July 8, 1996,
Preparation/Pre-Appraisal Mission; Terms of Reference (TOR)
* States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project; November 19-December 9, 1996
Mission; Back to Office Report, Management Letter
*   Summary of Negotiations, November 7 1996
* Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD, November 11 1996
* Technical Annex on a Proposed Loan, November 11 1996
Supervision
* Copies of Participation Agreements and State Policy Letters from participating states
* States Roads Infrastructure Development TA Project, Initial Form 590 and Supervision Plan
for FY98
*   States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Form 590, April 1998, Legal Covenants
* States; Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Bi-Annual Progress Report, July 3,
1998
* States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Supervision mission Aide Memoire of
January 18-22, 1999
* States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Bi-Annual Progress Report, January 27,
1999
*   States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Supervision Mission, April 13, 2000,
BTOR April 2000, Management Letter, PSR,
*   States' Road Infiastructure Development TA Project, Supervision Mission, December, 2000,
BTOR, PSR, Management Letter, Legal Covenants
*   States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Supervision Mission, June 11-14, 2001,
PSR, Legal Covenant Report
*   States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project, Supervision Mission, PSR, October
15-18, 2001, PSR 8,
Mid Term Review
* States' Road Infrastructure Development TA Project - Mid-Term Review, Discussion Paper,
August 9, 1999
* States' Road Infiastructure Development Project, Supervision and Mid-Term Review Mission
August 9-10, 1999, Aide Memoire, PSR, Legal Covenants,
-32 -



4 Various presentations by states at workshop
lOther
o Proceedings from workshop on IDS, June 2000
ICR
El States' Road Infrastructure Development Technical Assistance Project, Implementation
Completion Report Mission Report, January 19-23, 2002
oi Various presentations by states
4o Completed questionnaires from 11 states
- 33 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Three beneficiary surveys were conducted:
(i)    questionnaire that was sent to the states four months before loan closing (1 I responses)
(ii)   impact assessment during the stakeholder workshop (33 participants).
(iii)  email questionnaire sent to consultants employed under the TA project (6 responses)
1.     Results of Questionnaire Responses from States
1. What have been the 3-4 major improvements you have seen over the last five years in the road
sector?
MP
I .    The road user has realized the need for improvement in Road infrastructure and is willing to pay
the user charges for such a facility.
2.     The private sector is interested in investment in road infrastructure development details to the
facilities provided by the Government (i.e. tax holiday for income and investment in infrastructure
development.
3.     Private/public partnership is increasing in road infrastructure development.
4.     The State Government has initiated the improvement of approximately 2000km of roads through
private participating and Agency for 7 highway corridors are already fixed and works of 3 corridors
already started.
Maharashtra:
1.     Construction of large number of flyovers and ROB.
2.     Construction of Mumbai Pune Expressway.
3.     Road improvements under BOT concept.
4.     Introduction of modem construction technology.
5.     Improvement of accident prone spots to enhance road safety.
UP:
1.     Road sector has come under the first priority of Government policy makers.
2.     Maintenance of existing road network has improved.
3.     Road Safety has come in consideration of Road planners/engineers as one of the most important
aspects of the sector.
4.     Road users are paying/ready to pay user charges for better road services (no opposition to 1998
Road fund - which increased tax on petrol/diesel)
Gularat:
1.     Involvement of the private sector.
2.     Involvement of consultants of intemational repute.
3.     Consideration of environmental and social impacts in road development
4.     Involvement of NGOs and people in planning and implementation
5.     Introduction of new specifications and better equipment
TN:
I.     Increase in plan allocation from Rs. 186 crores in 1996-97 to Rs.809 in 2000-01.
2.     Allotment made by 10th Finance Commission falls short of allotment required as per GOI norms
by at least 50-66%.
3.     Realization to have public-private participation in major road projects for construction and
maintenance.
4.     Accent on connectivity to rural areas with better roads.
-34 -



AP:
1.     Better road conditions
2.     Better environment along the roads
3.     Better business efficiency in the contracting industry and their govemance
4.     Tender reforms are introduced and process streamlined.
Karnataka:
1.     Quality of roads in a few national highway sections
2.     BOT policy has been implemented for Hubli-Dharwad bypass
3.     Improvement of road traffic in Bangalore due to construction of ring roads, flyovers, grade
separators.
Manipur:
1.     Development of link roads to connect major roads.
2.     Rationalization of staffing norm in PWD
3.     Adoption of new technologies, including CAD
4.     Strengthening and widening of bridges and improvement of major road network under NEC
Fund/CRF - non-lapsable Central Pool/Basic minimum services/PMGSY
5.     National Highway was declared
6.     Funds provided for upgrading 2 existing highways
Mizoram:
1.     Need for Human Resource Development and training in administration and engineering is
realized.
2.     Greater use of computers
3.     Need for establishing a road fund.
4.     Need for maintaining ROW
5.     Role of planning is deeply understood.
Assam:
1.     Improvement of rural road network scenario.
2.     Construction of rural roads under PMGSY.
3.     (Communication sector) conversion of SPT Timber bridges to RCC bridges in the rural roads
network with NABARD assistance.
Trl6ura:
1.     Policy decision to change all timber bridges to permanent RCC/steel Bailey bridges
2.     Improvement and construction of roads in remote areas under Special Tribal Package program
3.     prioritization and implementation of improvement and upgradation of the road conditions by
borrowing from lending institutions like: NABARD, HUDCO, etc. for the first time in the State
4.     Time targeted road connectivity for un-connected rural inhabitants under PMGSY.
- 35 -



2. What have been theforces that have most contributed to these improvements?
MP:
1.     The highways do not have a required level of surveys which is essential for safety of the traffic and
type of vehicle using the highways.
2.     Encouragement by the State Government for investment in Road infrastructure development by
private sections to the investment, revision of Toll structure.
3.     Levy of cess by the Central Government for road infrastructure development.
Maharashtra:
1.     Adoption of promotion of BOT concept.
2.     Formation of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation
3.     Formation of Accident prevention Committee
UP:
1.     Willingness of road users to pay user charges for better road services - which has generated
sufficient funds for improvements/maintenance of road network.
2.     Increase in private sector investment in the road sector.
3.     Without proper road network, desired economic growth is difficult to achieve - policy makers have
changed their mindset.
Guiarat:
I .    Opening of the economy and policy change by the government.
2.     Change in attitude of the private entrepreneurs
3.     Realization of the need for infrastructure development and large investment in the sector
TN:
1.     The Plan allocation has been substantially increased
2.     Allocation of funds is not commensurate with the increased length of Government roads.
3.     With limited governmental funds, private sector participation is inevitable in construction and
maintenance.
4.     Better economic standards can only improve via better connectivity to villages.
AP:
1.     Higher allocation of fimds from state/central Government
2.     Greater emphasis on training/motivation
3.     Globalization of tenders/consultancy services
Karnataka:
I .    Insistence of pre-qualification for road contractors, specifically those who execute NH work
2.     Private sector participation policy
3.     Quality consciousness in government
Manipur:
I .    The need to reduce costs
2.     Receipt of some funds from the NEC and GOI
3.     Development of a road plan for the State and greater interstate connectivity of all places for
economic development incl. Connecting villages with all weather roads
4.     impact of improved infrastructure in providing social and economic development
5.     road user awareness
6.     increase in population and vehicles has led to an increase in demand
7.     roads are the only option for land-locked states
- 36 -



Mizoram:
1.     Experts hired for project preparation
2.     Involvement of World bank experts
3.     Trainings conducted as part of project
Assam:
1.     Availability of funding from external assistance (i.e. World Bank)
2.     Various guidelines from WB and GOI in connection with improvement of road sector.
Tripura:
I.     Attitude and focused attention of Govt for overall improvement of road sector
2.     Availability of non-lapsable Central pool of Resources for development of NER/CRF.
3.     Thrust on improvement of road connectivity for unconnected habitations
4.     Need of industries, entrepreneurs and the state gov't to develop Industries commerce and trade in
the state.
3. What are the major constraints youfeel the sectorfaces in makingfurther improvements?
MP:
1.     Insufficient allocation of funds for maintenance and development of roads.
2.     Problems related to land acquisition, shifting utilities.
3.     Insufficient financial resources with the State for development of road infrastructure to cater to
the needs of present day traffic.
Maharashtra:
I.     Finance
2.     Lack of professionally managed construction firms
3.     Unavailability of leased and hired-equipment
4.     Outdated and time consuming procedures re: land acquisition (Forest Conservation Act)
5.     Inadequate coordination with other agencies involved in road safety like RTO police, leading to
overloading, improper parking, and bad driving.
UP:
1.     High costs assoc. with construction, improvements, and rehabilitation works.
2.     Limited state resources inlgeneral and non-availability of funds under non-plan heading.
3.     High road user expectations/requirements of road users.
4.     Large volume of road netwvork which is increasing anmually. Major part of the road construction
industry is being managed by non-technical hands affecting the quality of construction.
Guiarat:
1.     Need for change in attitude and training
2.     Insufficient funds for roads
3.     Reluctance of people in p-aying tolls
4.      Private sector still not very confident in investing
5.     Lack of interest, long-term funds without major conditionality for investment in roads (both
public and private sector)
TN:
1.     Short fall in resources
2.     Lack of modem techniques with modem equipment and small valued contracts where efficiency
and productivity could not be ensured.
- 37 -



AP:
1.     Existing rules/audit norms to be more liberalized.
Karnataka:
1.     Time-bound program not being adhered to by implementing agencies
2.     Social and environmental problems faced in upgradation of roads
3.     Thin spread of resources among several projects
4.     Lack of scientific project management techniques.
Manipur:
1.     Lack of timely funding and materials.
2.     Bad law and order in the state / unstable government
3.     lack of governmental commitment
4.     corruption
5.     shortage of technical persons
6.     State financial constraints
7.     Lack of IDS
Mizoram:
I.     Difficult to get sponsorship from the project for training abroad
2.     Minimum exposure of Staff from PWD
3.     Minimum interaction between consultants and the client.
Assam:
1.     Financial constraints
2.     Absence of project preparation policy engaging consultants in project preparation.
Tripura:
I.     Funding constraints, particularly for maintenance of roads and bridges
2.     Lack of private sector investment/initiative
3.     Environmental regulations, esp. with trees/forests
4.     Topographic and demographic limitations
5.     Insurgency activities and law and order problems.
4. What do you consider has been the degree of impact of the TA loan in thefollowing areas?
Project objectiveslmpact - high, medium or low
Development of IDS action plans                               Medium
Preparation of major investment programs                      Medium
Capacity building, by skills transferfrom PCC or otherwise, in core processes, including
environment and social                                         Low
Development of measures to assist private sector road investment  Medium
Implement measures aimed at increasing private sector involvement in all elements of road
infrastructure delivery                                        Medium
Any other?
UP: priority is now given to road sector
TN: (1) FMS and procurement monitoring system via consultant; (2) Road safety measures proposed, (3)
CAD adopted
- 38 -



Tripura: TA Loan initially generated enthusiasm for PCC services, but expectations could not materialize
b/c of in-adequate time availability and curtailment of scope of PCC services.
5. How could the (i.) design and (ii.) administration (by the Bank and DEA) of the TA loan have
been improved tofurther assistprojectpreparation and sector reform?
MP:
(i) the input of International Consultant has improved the design system and also worked out the
economnical solution for development.
UP:
The consultants (international and domestic) be engaged on a performance based (delivery-based) payment
condition. The team leader of the consultant team should be Engineer cum management personnel.
TN:
Increased realization to adopt design of modern techniques with advanced construction equipment.
Greater acceptance of contract administration and financial accounting (w/help of LACI)
AP:
The time delay after approved by DEA to actual disbursement in state fund accounts can be minimized.
Karnataka:
Assessment can be made after implementation of the project.
Mizoram:
I .    Provision of proper and specific guidelines to the PCC before the start of the work and conduct
workshop.
Assam:
I .    PWD should be advised to form a PIU with five officers from all categories and in-depth
discussion / deliberation should be initiated in the PIU.
2.     PIU officers should be trained properly.
6. For those states not currently part of the lending programme of an external financier, what
measures are you aware of that are being taken by the state government to implement the investmnent
programmes designed under the TA loan?
.MP-
1.     The State Government is planning to obtain ADB assistance.
TN:
1. It is necessary to increase capacity and potential of the 'departmnti,to deal with major projects.
N4ational consultants can assist the department to a greater extent. International consultants should have a
mnit in India so as to maintain continuity until project commences construction.
lizoram:
I .    Training of staff (to be involved in the project) of the State Government before the start of the
iproject is essential.
Assam:
- 39 -



1.     Request to use un-disbursed balance of TA Loan was made.
Tripura:
1.      Specific investment programs could not be designed due to time constraints except for a
strengthening study report and the replacement of 11 timber bridges with RCC permanent bridges.
I.      State government is approaching NABARD and HUDCO and seeking Non-Lapsable Central
Pool of Resources (CRF) from GOI.
-40 -



2.     Results of Impact Survey During Stakeholder Workshop
Info.N1mt
PWD Skills
Planning                                           | -
Procrmt
. _m
Tbch Specs
QC
Maint Flanding        I   _
Mgt of Maint.                    _
Finan.gmnt 
EhvMgmt 
NMmt.of Soc                             -               -
PSP _! -
PS Invstmt                             l
User Partic.
Ikaffic & Safety
1.5            2            2.5            3            3.5           4
Low                 Impact of TA Loan                          High
Notes:
i)    Survey sample is 33, from estimated number of staff working directly on the TA Project of about
:200.
(ii)   Worksop participants at workshop were asked to complete survey form (see form on next page)
individually prior to lunch. Histogram was created by assigning mark 1-4 depending on perceived impact
and then taking mean score for each objective. The standard deviation on each category was less than 1
HIistogram was presented to participants in aftemoon for feedback.
-41 -



TA Loan Impact Survey for Implementation Completion Report
What do you consider has been the degree of impact of the Technical Assistance loan in the
following areas?
(Place cross in appropriate box)
Project objectives                            Impact
Indifferent  low    medium     high
(or negative)          .
Grading for chart     1         2        3        4
Data collection/Information management
Career and skills development of PWD staff
Programn and project planning -
Procurement of works and services
Technical specifications and designs
Quality control and management
Road maintenance funding
Road maintenance management
Financial management
Environmental management
Management of social development issues
Private sector participation in sector
Private sector financial investment in sector
Participation of road users in sector supervision
Traffic and road safety management
-42-



3.     Feedback from Consultants
Perceptions of Consultants Employed with Financing under the TA Loan
1. What were the major two or three constraints, if any, that you faced in
efficiently delivering the major outputs of your TORs - i.e. the project reports such as SOS,
Feasibility Studies, EA, EMP, RAP, DE, Bid Docs, IDS reports etc?
* Delays in approvals after report submissions
* Centralized decision making by clients
* Inadequate interaction with client officials
* Delays in fee paymentslnadequate ownership for IDS initiatives
2. How would you describe the level of involvement of stakeholders outside the
road agency (e.g. Departments of Finance and Transport, local academia, representatives of road
users) in shaping and guiding the consulting services you provided that were policy related (e.g.
maintenance and IDS studies) - low, medium or high involvement?
* Low to Medium
3. What tools did you employ to transfer skills to road agency staff, what incentives were put on
you to do so, and how successful do you think you have been in achieving this technology
transfer?In-house training, workshops and visits were common tools used for TT
* Rate of success was significant in procurement procedure
*  Success in generating appreciable interest in Social and Environmental issues
* Lukewarm response to IT and IDS related initiatives
4. What is your experience in applying the Bank's safeguard policies and standards in project
preparation and do you think the process of preparation for bank financed projects influences the
way highway projects are prepared by the PWDs in India using state funds?Some of the WB
guidelines are rigid resulting in delays in implementation
* Diligent monitoring of policies not forthcoming as a natural course of action
*  Inadequate inter-departmental coordination
* Disseminating WB project experience to field engineers' level will be difficult
5. What is your assessment of the Bank teams' input in reviewing project documentation and
enhancing the quality of project preparatory work?
* WB Team's reviews were thorough and professional
* WB Review missions should take place more frequently
* Need for closer/active involvement of WB Specialist in environmental matters
*  Collaborative environment for implementation of IDS needed to be nurtured by WB
6. How could the preparation of state highway projects be improved?Need for stakeholders'
participation in framing of TORs
* Choice of intl/domestic manpower in the studies be left to the lead consultant
* Avoid parallel contract supervision by the road agency
* No subcontracting of study be allowed
* Avoid transfers of officials during project
*  IDS will become meaningful and effective only after the Government activates
refonns in its overall governance
-43 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
1. Purpose
During the ICR mission, a stakeholders' workshop was organized on January 19, 2002 in New
Delhi. The workshop was facilitated by an international short term consultant. The purpose of this
workshop was to
(i) Solicit broad ranging inputs from a variety of stakeholders to the relevant aspects of the ICR, namely
*      achievement of project objectives
*      achievement of specific outputs
*      factors affecting implementation
*      problems encountered
*      lessons leamed
(ii) Provide an opportunity to road agency officials for further leaming and experience sharing
2. Participants
Senior managers from the state road agencies (Secretaries, Chief Engineers, Project Directors of
Project Implementation Units), senior managers from the state finance ministries, Department of Economic
Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Roads, Transportation and Highways (MORTH), consulting firms (which
participated in project preparation of the TA Loan), National Highways Authority of India and other
stakeholders were invited for the workshop.
About 40 members took active part in the workshop. They represented state road agencies of
Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Orissa, Haryana,
Assam, Tripura, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Uttaranchal. DEA and NHAI also participated. Senior
staff from four consulting firms took part in the workshop. In addition, a senior manager from Tamil Nadu
Roads Development Corporation was also present. Senior officials from some of the state finance
departments participated in the workshop. Thus the audience represented a wide cross-section of the
stakeholders of the road sector.
On the Bank's side the following persons participated: Bandyopadyay, Bansal, Das, Gray,
Srinivas, Swaminathan, Vickers, Mokashi (SASEI), Lebo (EASTR).
3. Proceedings
The focus of discussion in the workshop was the experience of the road agencies from participating
states. Four road agencies (Gujarat, AP, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu) made ten- minute formal presentations in
which presenters gave their own evaluation as follows.
a. Assessing the impact of the project in supporting comprehensive preparation of major road
infrastructure investment proposals;
b. Assessing the impact of the project in supporting reforms to planning, financing, provision,
maintenance and management of road transport infrastructure by states' road agencies; and
c. Assessing the impact of the project on assisting states towards increased privatization of roads
engineering, construction, work supervision and maintenance services in the sector.
Group and plenary discussions occurred on each of the above topics. The members in each group
discussed intemally their views and made a short presentation summarizing their groups' thinking. Group
and plenary discussions on major factors affecting implementation and outcome and the lessons learned
were held in the aftemoon. Before close of the workshop proceedings a group discussion on 'Future
Investment in the Roads Sector' took place in which all participants expressed their opinions on the
-44 -



direction of future investments.
4. Stakeholders' Feedback
The feedback from the workshop is incorporated in the main text and given in Beneficiary Survey
(see Annex 8).
:5. Conclusions
The Stakeholders' Workshop provided an opportunity for the agencies participating in the TA loan
co come together and share their views. Some of the expectations and concerns expressed by the
participants were common and the need for all road agencies networking became evident for mutual
),earning from ongoing experimentation. This will enable the road agencies to expedite their project
implementation process and sustain the overall reform process.
- 45 -



