Report No. PIC4001
Project Name              India-States Road Infrastructure Development...
Technical Assistance Project
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Infrastructure
Product ID                INPA45600
Borrower                  India, acting by its President
Contact: Department of Economic Affairs (DEA)
New Delhi 110 001
India
Date this PID Prepared    October 17, 1996
Project Board Date        November 21, 1996
Country and sector background. A major factor in the long-term
prospects for economic growth and social development in India is the
inadequate, under-financed and deteriorating road transport
infrastructure in the country. Amid the reality of severe road
congestion and poor pavement conditions along most major routes and
corridors, the demand for intercity road freight transport in India is
expected to double every 12 years while the demand for passenger road
transport is expected to double every 8-9 years. Substantial
improvements in the mobilization of finance and in the effective
facilitation and management of road infrastructure assets are urgently
required if India's economic liberalization program is to continue
unimpeded from this quarter. However, public funding levels for major
road maintenance and rehabilitation have been decreasing steadily, and
the extent of private sector investment in roads is likely to stay
relatively minor in India. Compounding the physical road infrastructure
problems, is the related need for major institutional reforms and
capacity building in the roads sector.
While pursuing major investments in the National Highways network with
external assistance, GOI has since mid-1994 also extended its explicit
support to the States for their preparation of major state-level road
infrastructure investment proposals aimed at qualifying for external
financing assistance. This has resulted in several States' proposals,
aimed directly at satisfying World Bank conditions for appraisal based
on an initial state-financed network-wide study of the objective road
conditions, traffic densities and road improvement priorities in their
major road network, termed a Strategic Options Study (SOS). However, a
stronger focus on enactment of parallel sector financing and
institutional reforms is essential to achieve the sustainability of road
project investments and to ensure effective ongoing state-level capacity
for road infrastructure provision, financing and maintenance.
Project objectives. The overall objective of this project is to
strengthen policy-based efforts by states in India towards effective
reforms in the provision, financing and maintenance of road
infrastructure. In particular, through the financing of targeted
Technical Assistance (TA), the project aims to: (a) help states
comprehensively prepare quality civil works components for possible Bank
lending and/or financing from other external assistance sources; (b)



strengthen the state-level road agencies' capacity for road
infrastructure project planning and management; (c) assist the states to
prepare and implement appropriate reform strategies for sustainable
strengthening of their capacity for the planning, financing, maintenance
and management functions of the roads sector; and (d) assist the states
to implement effective policies for increased private sector road
infrastructure investment. Bank support for follow-up investments will
materialize to the extent that States undertake comprehensive sectoral
reforms.
Project Description. The proposed project will mainly finance TA
activities under two project categories. The first, Project Preparation
and Implementation Support, will cover: (i) techno-economic feasibility,
design, all preliminary engineering and initial final engineering,
procurement and works bidding preparations for proposed road
infrastructure investments; (ii) assistance with upgrading of the
project management and implementation capacities and resources of the
states' roads authorities; and (iii) support for appropriate workshops,
training, trial/demonstration projects and/or pilot studies. The
second, Policy Support and Institutional Development, will provide
assistance in parallel with the State's roads investments operations for
early substantive action on reform measures for key aspects of sector
institutional strengthening and capacity-building.
Project financing. The project cost will be approximately US$53 million
(net of taxes, duties, etc.), which will be divided between the two main
(abovementioned) project components at approximately US$ 40.5 and US$
12.5 million, respectively.
Project implementation. The project coordinating agency will be GOI's
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA). However, most of the project's TA
activities will be implemented and executed by the PWD/road agency of
each participating state.
Sustainability. The TA activities are all aimed at increasing the
sustainability of states' ongoing capacities in road infrastructure
planning, investments, financing, implementation and maintenance. The
quality of the future road projects resulting from TA-supported
investment preparations should themselves ensure road performance and
durability considerably beyond current norms. Longer-term
sustainability of this project's sectoral benefits will come through
substantive improvements to the states' capacities for effective road
infrastructure management, road maintenance and financing.
Lessons from previous Bank involvement. From past experience, it is
crucial that proposed investments be prepared much more comprehensively
prior to project appraisal, particularly in relation to environmental
and social impact aspects, and that all clearances etc., for the
proposed civil works be fully resolved for the letting of contracts,
etc., by project effectiveness to the greatest extent possible. Poor
project implementation and contract management capacities in the
PWD/road agencies have been among the major factors in slow and
problematical progress with Bank-assisted road infrastructure projects
in India to date. The Bank's strategy in this sector will emphasize
policy-based TA and investment lending, requiring comprehensive
- 2-



application of international-standard technical expertise for the major
techno-economic, social and environmental aspects of investment
preparations, and parallel action on key reform/strengthening measures
in sector financing and institutional capacity aspects.
Poverty category. Not directly applicable. However, successful roads
sector performance enhancements achieved through TA-supported
interventions should result in improved road infrastructure provision
and road maintenance by the states, which will have broad state-wide
economic and financial benefits.
Environmental and social aspects. Since the project will finance TA
only, there are no significant direct environmental impacts in this
project. However, the project will inter alia fund TA to individual
states' PWD/road agencies for (a) preparation of appropriate
Environmental Assessments and Resettlement Action Plans for future road
infrastructure investments planned for Bank and/or other external
financing, and (b) the enhancement of state-level institutional
capacities to henceforth manage these aspects of road infrastructure
more effectively.
Program objectives category. On the basis of the project's dual focus on
comprehensive assistance for preparation of planned road infrastructure
investments in compliance with the Bank OD on Environmental Assessment,
and on engendering major, genuine and sustainable institutional and
financing improvements in the states' roads sector, the project's
categorization in this context is both Economic Management (EA) and
Environmentally Sustainable Development (EN).
Benefits. The proposed project would enable GOI, in accordance with its
major current emphasis on achieving road transport infrastructure
improvements, to assist the states individually to more effectively
prepare sound road infrastructure investment proposals likely to meet
Bank lending requirements, and in parallel to assist these states to
implement considerable improvements in their capacity for road
infrastructure development, management and financing. This should lead
to considerable economic gains to India's road transport sector, through
improved road network conditions, management and maintenance, resulting
in improved road transport efficiency with reductions in vehicle
operating costs, journey times and operational safety, as well as
financial gains to the states through greater cost-effectiveness from
available public resources for road infrastructure provision and
maintenance.
Risks. The main risks to effective performance of this TA project will
arise from (a) an insufficient number of states accepting participation
under the proposed conditions; (b) the possible weakening of some
states' commitment to the planned sectoral reforms in the absence of
firm prospects of eventual Bank financing of their proposed road
infrastructure investment; (c) the limited experience of most states'
PWD/road agencies with the engaging and effective management of external
consultants on project development and implementation; and (d) the
states' limited assimilation of Bank project preparation, procurement
and contract management requirements. The GOI has committed itself to
directly minimizing the first two of these risks with the states,
- 3 -



individually and collectively. The latter two risk areas will be
addressed from the outset of any TA-supported activities, as an integral
part of any investment preparations and within specific per-state/per-
agency "capacity-building"
Note:   The Environmental Data Sheet is available at the Public Information
Center upon request.
Contact Point             Ernst Huning, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 473-5884
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending October , 1996.
- 4 -



