Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7007-lN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INDIA
FOR
A
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 11, 1996
Energy & Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region



- ii-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1, 1996)
Currency Unit    =  Rupees (Rs)
One Rupee        =  US$0.03 (approx.)
US$1.00          =  Rs 35.68
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
DE          -  Detailed Engineering
DEA         -  Department of Economic Affairs
DPR         -  Detailed Project Report
EA          -  Environmental Assessment
EAP         -  Environmental Action Plan
EC          -  Empowered Committee
GOI         -  Government of India
GPN         -  General Procurement Notice
km          -  Kilometer
MOST        -  Ministry of Surface Transport
PCC         -  Project Coordinating Consultant
PIPF        -  Project Identification &
Preparation Framework
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
PQ          -  Prequal ification (of contractors)
PWD         -  Public Works Department
R&R         -  Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP         -  Rehabilitation Action Plan
SG          -  State Government
TA          -  Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
Vice President:      D. Joseph Wood
Director:            Heinz Vergin
Division Chief:      Jean-Francois Bauer
Task Manager:        Ernst Huning



- 111 -
INDIA 
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
PagNo.
Loan and Project Summary .................................................... iv
I. Institutional Setting ....................................................1l
II. Project Description ....................................................2
III. Project Cost and Financing ....................................................6
IV. Project Implementation and Administration .....................................................7
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1: Project Identification and Preparation Framework (model) .............11............. 1
Attachment 2: Initial Project Funds Allocation ....................................................  16
Attachment 3: Project Activity Outline .................................................... 17
Attachment 4: Project Design Summary ....................................................          18
Attachment 5: Project Performance Indicators ......................       .............................. 21
Attachment 6: Proposed State Highways I (Andhra Pradesh) Project:
Public Information Document (PID) .........................................      24
SCHEDULES
A. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan .................................................... 27
B. Procurement and Disbursement ....................................................              28
C. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, and 'India At A Glance' .................................................... 30
The project was prepared by Messrs. Ernst Huning (Task Manager, SA2EI), Fabio Galli (Financial
Analyst, SA2EI), Christopher Hoban (Senior Highways Engineer, SA2EI), Chandra Godavitarne
(Consultant, SA2EI) and Jose Pedro Da Silva (Legal Counsel, LEGSA). Messrs./Mmes. Angela
Armstrong (Project Assistant, SA2EI), Moncef Chaabouni (Project Assistant, SA2EI), Joelle Chassard
(Senior Financial Analyst, SA2EI),
R L Kapoor (Local Consultant, SA2RS), Reidar Kvam (Anthropologist, ASTHR), Peter Long (Highways
Engineer/Consultant, SA2EI), David Marsden (Chief, Social Development Unit, SA2RS), Malaine Manzo
(Senior Operations Officer, SA2EI), Peter Midgley (Senior Urban Planner, ASTEN), I U B Reddy (Social
Development Officer, SA2RS), Vivi Scott (Senior Staff Assistant, SA2EI), Gladys Stevens (Senior Staff
Assistant, SA2EI) and Kazuko Uchimura (Project Adviser, SA2DR) have all made valuable contributions
in this context. The peer reviewers were Dieter Schelling (Senior Highways Engineer, AF4IN), Hatim
Hajj (Senior Transport Specialist, EA2TP) and Jaffar Bentchikou (Senior Highways Engineer, MN1PI).
The report has been endorsed by Messrs. Heinz Vergin (Director, SA2) and Jean-Francois
Bauer (Division Chief, SA2EI).



I



- iv -
INDIA
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Implementing Agency:   Department of Economic Affairs
Beneficiaries:         State governments and their road management agencies and other road
transportation sub-sector stakeholders
Poverty Category:      Not Applicable
Environmental Category: C
Loan Amount:           US$51.5 million equivalent
Terms:                  LIBOR-based variable lending rate and repayable over twenty years,
including a five year grace period
Commitment Fee:         0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:        Standard terms and conditions applicable to GOI's central assistance to states
at the time, fully additional to each State's Plan assistance, with GOI bearing
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Objectives:     To strengthen individual states' capacity for the provision, financing,
maintenance and management of road transport infrastructure, and to assist
individual states to comprehensively prepare sound road infrastructure
investment projects.
Project Description:    Financing of comprehensive Technical Assistance (TA) through GOI to states
for: (i) implementation of sustainable roads sector institutional and financing
reforms and (ii) comprehensive preparation of road infrastructure
investments.
Risks and Safeguards:   Principal risks are limited implementation by states of essential project
preparations and sector reforms. TA project participation is conditional on
each State taking policy-based actions towards sustainable reforms in roads
planning, financing, maintenance and management. Project TA will support
states' implementation of such reforms and the preparation of planned
investment projects.
Financing Plan:         See table in Schedule A.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Not applicable.



I



INDIA
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Annex
I. Institutional Setting
1.    The Government of India (GOI)'s strategy of supporting priority road infrastructure investment
proposals by the states (alongside those for National Highways needs) was initiated in 1992/93, as part of
the evolution of India's program of economic reforms and liberalization. In this context, the GOI's
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) played a strategic role in the establishment in September, 1993
by the Bank of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the State of Haryana to assist with the costs of
preparing a major highways upgrading and rehabilitation project aimed at eventual Bank financing (the
first such PPF initiated for India). The strategy's overall objectives are, as agreed between GOI and the
Bank from the outset, to combine preparations for major improvements in state-level road infrastructure
with measures designed to achieve significant sectoral institutional strengthening and future sustainability
of road network assets.
2.     The preparations in Haryana and subsequently in Andhra Pradesh have taken longer than
originally anticipated, however, DEA and the Center's nodal ministry for the sector, the Ministry of
Surface Transport (MOST), have continued their explicit support for and promotion of this strategy.
Several states have now responded with their own substantive proposals for similar Bank-assisted
investment project preparation and implementation.
3.     While the overall strategy has been established and promoted through the central government, the
responsibility for actually implementing the strategy (through the medium of suitable Project vehicles
and/or various sector policy interventions) rests with the individual states, as road transport is a field of
concurrent constitutional responsibility between Center and states. In this sector, the main implementing
and execution capacities have historically been located in the states' roads agencies (mostly still termed
Public Works Departments, or PWDs, on the basis of their diverse works and services functions as
'Engineer to the State').
4.     Apart from their substantial administrative and field-labor echelons, these PWDs are staffed by
career engineering officials whose career mobility is generally limited to the particular state PWD context
and whose advancement is determined largely by seniority. Their skills base rarely includes non-
engineering expertise (e.g. in economics, law, environmental or social sciences) and the resources and
opportunities for staff development are generally limited. Their internal technical resources are
frequently outdated and there is little effective computerization of processes and information. At the
same time, there is still only limited usage of available private sector engineering, construction and
maintenance resources, with considerable in-house provision of such services remaining.
5.    Most aspects of the PWDs' project and program management activities suffer from a lack of up-
to-date in-depth capacities, inappropriate technology and/or inadequate finances, resulting in significant
inefficiencies, quality and performance problems in key areas such as road maintenance, investment
planning and implementation. The financial and technical policies and practices determining the PWDs'
activities in roads planning, construction and maintenance are, in principle, based on contemporary norms
and standards promulgated India-wide by bodies such as MOST, the Finance Commission and/or the



Indian Road Congress. In practice, however, these norms and standards are often unrealistic for the
actual circumstances and needs in the sector and thus do not result in effective design, construction or
maintenance outputs. The pervasive financial constraints in the sector and the PWDs' limited capacity for
effective quality control, financial and performance accountability in works implementation and
maintenance operations also undermine the quality otherwise possible under the existing norms and
policies.
6.     Most state governments and their PWDs have recognized their difficulties in meeting current
demands for financing, provision and maintenance of major road network infrastructure, and have begun
to implement some policy reforms and institutional strengthening measures. However, their efforts have
so far been limited in scope and impact, and inhibited by the lack of wider institutional support and by
major ongoing financial constraints.
7.     The roads sector in India is facing a crucial threshold, where the undoubted need for major
physical investments in road infrastructure is matched by the widespread appreciation of the need for
major sector policy and institutional reforms and capacity building. Both the Center and the States now
show a broad commitment to change in the key institutional, operational and financing aspects of the
sector. However, without the impetus of GOI's strategic support and without external financial assistance
which explicitly targets these areas of 'institutional investment', major performance constraints and
weaknesses will prevail in this sector.
8.    Accordingly, under this project, the Bank-financed TA for a State's road infrastructure investment
preparations would be paralleled by Bank-financed TA supporting the State's efforts to develop and
implement policy-based reforms aimed at future sustainability in the State's capacities for road
infrastructure financing and facilitation, asset maintenance and overall sector management. The TA-
supported interventions and capacity-building measures needed to achieve this will be identified as early
as possible, for action in parallel with the planned TA-supported road infrastructure investment
preparations.
H. Project Description
9.    The project will enable financing of TA support to individual States' road infrastructure
investment preparations via two main components:
(a)    The project preparation and implementation support component under which
financial assistance will be provided by GOI to individual States for investment project
preparations, and in particular to help meet the costs of:
(i)    preparation of techno-economic feasibility studies, all preliminary engineering,
sufficient final engineering designs to enable commencement of at least the first
two years' construction program immediately upon a future Loan's effectiveness,
and all associated procurement preparations, to meet Bank project appraisal and
approval requirements;
(ii)   comprehensive preparation of the associated Environment and Social Impact
screenings and assessments, appropriate R&R Action Plans and policy measures,
to GOI and Bank project appraisal and approval requirements;
(iii)   assistance with initial capacity-building in the project management and
implementation capacities and resources of the PWD/roads agencies, including
for roads-related social and environmental responsibilities; and



- 3 -
(iv)   facilitation of and support for appropriate workshops, inter-state networking,
training, study tours and/or pilot studies, projects and/or programs to demonstrate
and/or resolve:
*   'best practice' in approaches to critical areas of project preparation, (e.g.,
social or environment matters), and
*   new methods, practices and/or technology to be used in preparation of the
planned project works.
(b)    The policy support and institutional development component under which financial
assistance will be provided by GOI to individual States for TA support to substantive
actions on planning and implementation of measures for policy-based reforms and
institutional strengthening in each State's roads maintenance, road network management,
roads sector financing, investment planning and implementation functions. In particular,
this TA financing will help meet the costs of:
(i)    development of strategies and time-bound action plans, based on relevant
'best practice' in this field, for major sustainable improvements in the
main policy, financial, organizational and skills aspects of the State's
road infrastructure development, maintenance and management
capacities;
(ii)   TA-supported networking, staff exchanges/secondments, domestic and/or
overseas study initiatives and workshops within and between the
participating states, aimed at accelerating, exchanging and consolidating
the experiences and skills being gained in the States during this project in
institutional and financial reform and capacity-building for the roads sub-
sector; and
(iii)  financial, legal and/or other expert services for development of policy
and other enabling measures by the State(s) for more effective private
sector investment and participation in road infrastructure provision.
There will be a small, separate project management component to finance the consultancy services
required to assist DEA in its carriage of overall project implementation management.
10.   All TA-supported activities in these two main components would be implemented within an
agreed Project Identification & Preparation Framework (PIPF), which comprehensively outlines the
various Bank requirements for sound project preparation, the mutual Bank/GOI aims for reforms and
improvements in sector capacities and performance to be addressed in institutional strengthening
components of such project preparations, and the necessary preliminary actions to be taken by individual
states to facilitate rational pre-selection and planning of proposed investments during project preparations.
A copy of the current 'model PIPF' is provided at Attachment 1. An early example of the PIPF approach
in application is the proposed State Highway Project I (a.k.a. Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project,
IN-PA-9995), for which the Project Information Document is at Attachment 6.
11.   Under the project, the TA financing would be concentrated (but not limited to) on the following
activities:



-4 -
* preparation to Bank project appraisal standards -by the States of the technical, economic,
social, environment and procurement components of their road infrastructure investment
proposals, using comprehensive intemationally-experienced consulting services, aimed at
resolving all pre-construction preparations, clearances and other issues for at least the first
two years' construction program by the anticipated Loan approval;
*   implementation via the PCC services and/or other TA forms of pilot studies, demonstration
projects, training and/or development programs for the application and transfer of
international 'best practice' roads planning, design and construction methods, skills and
technology, during the overall preparations for the State's planned subsequent investment
project(s);
*   identification of measures to progressively shift the procurement and implementation
approaches in the roads sector towards the increased privatization of engineering,
construction execution and supervision services in road works and maintenance activities,
from current PWD 'in-house' approaches;
*   preparation of relevant institutional change strategies, and implementation of early catalytic
measures therein, to strengthen the states' roads maintenance and roads management
policies, capacities and performance, including on environmental and social aspects, which
inter alia shift the main sector agencies from a 'services provider' to 'sector manager' role in
relation to the states' needs, and support for implementation of substantive 'first steps';
*   identification of policy and other changes required for sustainable higher public funding for
road maintenance needs and support for implementation of substantive 'first steps';
-   development of policy and administrative measures for more effective facilitation of private
sector investment and participation in state-level road infrastructure;
-   facilitation of any pilot projects/programs, studies and/or surveys to test and demonstrate key
new concepts, mechanisms, techniques and/or technologies relevant to the sector, including
via minor-scale civil works;
*   procurement and implementation of essential equipment or goods for priority capacity-
building measures in sector agencies; and
*   facilitation of and attendance at intra-state, regional and/or overseas seminars, study tours,
workshops and/or training initiatives on substantive aspects of proposed sector and
institutional reforms.
12.    TA Delivery Mode: The consultancy services and TA typically required by each State for
investment project preparations handled in accordance with the PIPF would be integrated as a unified
package of Project Coordinating Consultant (PCC) services. In these packages, internationally-
experienced firms (usually with domestic associates and/or sub-contractors) will provide the full range of
engineering, economic, financial, procurement, social and environment skills necessary to support
individual states in planning and executing comprehensive project preparations which should satisfy Bank
project appraisal requirements. The PCC firms are required to provide personnel with wide international
experience and strong qualifications for all key positions in the delivery of the services. The PCC
services would normally be procured in accordance with Terms of Reference (TOR) adapted by each
State (with Bank review) from the 'model TOR' developed by the Bank on the basis of previous
operational experience in this sector and disseminated to the states with GOI's assistance. These 'model



- 5 -
TOR' at least cover the respective fields of full project feasibility analysis; preliminary and detailed
engineering design; procurement preparations; project management assistance to the client PWD;
Environmental Assessment (EA) and Environmental Action Plan (EAP) preparation; Social Impact
assessment, R&R policy development support and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) preparation. The
respective requirements of the Bank's Operational Directives 4.01, 4.20 and 4.30 are fully addressed in
these TOR. The 'model TOR' have been lodged with the Bank's Public Information Center for general
public access, suitably annotated to identify their status as a 'living document' likely to evolve further.
13.   The duration of such PCC services will vary according to the size and complexity of each State's
planned investment preparations, but typically will be of the order of 15-18 months for the Phase I
segment (covering support to the client State to the stage of Bank project appraisal). Any continuation of
PCC services thereafter (into Phase 2) can be facilitated directly within the original PCC contract, but is
subject to (a) the outcome of Bank project appraisal and (b) the prerogatives of the individual State, based
on the client's satisfaction (or otherwise) with performance of the PCC services in Phase 1.
14.    The individual states' requirements for TA support for development and implementation of sector
reforms and institutional strengthening are expected to vary considerably, according to each State's sector
circumstances and the status of reform initiatives there. Accordingly, the consultancy services and/or TA
forms required under this project component may need to be secured from a variety of sources, not
necessarily included in the PCC-style packaging of consultancy services outlined above. The scope,
diversity and pace of these TA-supported reforms will need to be determined on a case-by-case basis by
each State.
15.   Priority Areas for Reforms: Initial reform 'targets', taking into account the combination of
technical, operational and financing norms already promulgated (but generally not well applied) in India
and the typical performance indicators for comparable roads sector functions overseas, should at least
include:
(a)    improved procurement, contract and project management performance, in terms
of turn-around times for decision-making and implementation, processing of
payments, securing essential inter-agency clearances and actions, etc.;
(b)   the development of effective basic road management information (traffic counts,
road condition surveys, etc.) and preparations for implementation of a
suitable Road Management System which integrates this data with cost,
budgeting and monitoring functions, as well as signaling objective priorities for
maintenance;
(c)    improved road maintenance effectiveness, based initially on monitoring of
annual maintenance quality and quantity against outlays and subsequent
measures to improve policies, annual financing levels and sources of finance,
standards, methods of execution and forms of procurement for road maintenance
services;
(d)    strengthened road infrastructure planning and project development and
implementation capacity, inclusive of roads-related social and environmental
planning, within the State's road agency and in key counterpart state-level
bodies;
(e)    improved traffic capacity management and road transport regulation for more
effective utilization of available road capacity; and



-6 -
(f)    increased road infrastructure financing through improved cost-recovery and
revenue generation, increased public budget allocations, improved output
efficiency from present budgets, and greater value for money in road
maintenance results.
16.   Typical services for studies to help individual states to develop viable options for institutional,
financing and/or road maintenance reforms and the related implementation strategies/plans would be of 4-
6 months' duration, involving a combination of international and domestic experts in the relevant
technical, financial, institutional and operational fields.
17.    Training and Staff Development: Proposals for project TA outlays on training and development
of an individual State's staff (and where appropriate, local road engineering and construction industry
representatives and stakeholders) will mainly be for short-term project-oriented skill development needs.
The main focus in such TA financing will in each State be on:
(a)    the extension and consolidation of agency and sector capacities for key project
and/or sector management functions, particularly those needed for satisfactory
implementation of the planned future Bank-assisted investment project; and
(b)   the effective transfer and implementation of new concepts, systems, techniques
and/or technologies in agency and sector activities.
Such training may be conducted 'on-site' in the participating states or (as necessary) involve attendance at
appropriate interstate, regional or overseas technical institutions and conferences. However, in all cases
the training will be expected to be have clear project-related objectives, involve areas of high priority
needs in the sector as determined between the state authorities and the Bank, and have measurable
outcomes in corporate and/or individual performance terms, for subsequent monitoring by the State
concerned.
M11. Project Cost and Financing
18.   Project Cost and Financial Allocations: The total project cost, inclusive of taxes and
contingencies, is estimated to be US$68.0 million. Project financing would be as follows: IBRD Loan of
US$51.5 million, a contribution by the States amounting to US$1.5 million for the financing of the
necessary dedicated Project Management resources to be implemented by each participating State; and a
further aggregate contribution of about US$15.0 million by the participating States, to meet the levies
and/or tax liabilities due on fees and payments to foreign consultants. Retroactive financing limited to
US$5.0 million for eligible payments made from July 1, 1996, will be provided where advance
procurement of PCC services has been essential to enable some states to effectively initiate and/or extend
the implementation of their project preparations planned for TA financing under this Project, following
Bank review and agreement, where such preparations are not already covered by an existing Project
Preparation Facility. The project will include US$40.5 million for Project Preparation and
Implementation Support, US$12. 15 million for Policy Support and Institutional Development, and
US$0.35 million for the consultancy services required by GOI to assist DEA in carrying out the
abovementioned 'process management' role in the project's implementation effectively.
19.   The proposed initial allocations of project funds to individual States per project component and in
aggregate, pending the progressive completion by individual states of the project's entry/participation
conditions, are indicated at Attachment 2. Further breakdown of the likely funding of anticipated
segments and activities is not possible at this stage, as the identification of these can generally take place



-7 -
only after each participating State has:
(a)    determined the broad scope and requirements of its particular sector reforms
agenda, in consultation with GOI and the Bank; and
(b)    confirmed the initial size and complexity of its planned investment project
preparations, as the basis for estimating the scope and value of the required PCC
consultancy services.
20.   Procurement and Disbursement: The financing plan for the Project is shown in Schedule A.
The amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements and the expected disbursement schedule
under the Project are given at Schedule B. Except as specified, all procurement of works will be done in
accordance with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and all procurement of consultant
services will be in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
IV. Project Implementation and Administration
21.   Main Project Activities/Milestones: The sequence of key project activities typically expected
between DEA, individual participating States seeking Bank TA financing ab initio via this facility and the
13ank, from the time of this TA Project's effectiveness until the aimed-at Bank Board presentation of that
State's fully prepared road infrastructure investment project, is outlined schematically at Attachment 3. A
summary of the agreed reporting and monitoring scope and indicators for this Project's main components
is at Attachment 4.
22.   Implementing and Executing Agencies: The GOI's project implementing agency will be the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Ministry of Finance. However, substantive project
implementation and execution responsibilities will be carried mainly by the participating States through
their PWD or road agencies, who will be responsible for preparing and implementing the TA Loan-
supported components.
23.   Eligibility for TA Financing: All states who commit themselves to the objectives and conditions
of the Project through completion of a Participation Agreement with GOI will be eligible for financing of
such Technical Assistance as is agreed between them, GOI and the Bank. The Bank will approve
individual states' applications to TA financing for agreed activities under the Project on a case-by -case
basis, after the State Government has:
(a)    committed itself to an agenda of policy, institutional and sector-financing
reforms, satisfactory to GOI and the Bank;
(b)    undertaken to handle any project preparations, studies, works and other activities
financed with TA under this project, in accordance with the agreed PIPF; and
(c)    accepted, for the main forms of TA-supported activities, the application of
Terms of Reference (TOR) derived from the 'model TOR' provided by the
Bank, suitably adapted to each State's specific requirements after Bank review.
24.   The Special Category States in India (such as Nagaland, Tripura, Manipur and Himachal Pradesh,
etc.) who have negligible revenue sources of their own and whose public budgets are sustained mainly
through Grants from the Central Government, may also seek TA financing under this project for
preparation of their roads upgrading proposals for a possible Bank-financed project, consistent with
ongoing GOI policy aimed at opening up such remote areas and at all-round socio-economic integration



-8 -
of these states' peoples with the rest of India. Subject to the development of appropriate project
preparation strategies for combinations of these states, and following each such State's acceptance of the
general principles of the Project Identification & Preparation Framework, a specially-modified approach
to the typical Project Coordination Consultant (PCC) services (inclusive of some form of SOS) will be
finalized with such states, perhaps as a single multi-state 'package' of PCC services. In parallel, they
would jointly establish a multi-state Authorized Group of empowered officials to carry out the 'client'
role in procurement and management of (e.g.) the main PCC services.
25.   Participation Agreements: Proceeds of the TA Loan may be used by the participating states
under a Participation Agreement established between GOI and the individual State, to be finalized once a
State Government has satisfied this Project's eligibility conditions. The Participation Agreement will
detail the framework and operation of the TA Loan and the obligations of the participating State, as well
as the expectation of the application of the PIPF and the 'model TOR' (as available and as adapted) in
TA-supported activities under this project.
26.    Responsibility of the Implementing Agency (DEA): The DEA will be responsible for the
overall processing and monitoring of the states' access to the proceeds of the TA Loan, and for
translating GOI's support (as appropriate) for the building of a pipeline of states' road infrastructure
project proposals for Bank financing, and to ensure that the commitments made in the Participation
Agreements are honored.
27.    Responsibility of the Participating States: The participating State Governments will be
required: (i) to advise, in writing, the features and policy basis of the State's intended roads sector
institutional and financing reforms; and (ii) to undertake to:
(a)    conduct all project preparatory studies and activities (as outlined in the PIPF)
along 'best practice' lines and (as appropriate) to comply with the relevant Bank
Operational Directives (OD), particularly OD's 4.01, 4.20 and 4.30;
(b)   promptly make appropriate budgetary allocation of funds to cover all
expenditures connected with the project preparations, including any increased
budgets for road maintenance and financing, if applicable;
(c)    obtain the Bank's 'no objection' for specific activities at specified stages; and
(d)    from the outset, establish dedicated Project Management resources and a
suitable Secretary-level Empowered/Steering Committee (EC) to monitor and
guide all aspects of the State's reform/institutional strengthening program and
investment project preparations, to provide necessary approvals for the major
procurement activities, and resolve any inter-departmental issues/difficulties.
28.    Relationship of Each State's Executing Agency(-ies) With Other Entities: Each State's road
agency (or PWD) will be expected to consult stakeholders who may be substantially affected by impacts
arising out of the proposed investments that follow the studies, and take into consideration their views in
project formulation. The stakeholders would include persons whose lands or livelihood would be affected
by acquisition or by enhanced property valuations and taxes, environmental and social non-government
organizations (NGOs) working in the area, and the state authorities responsible for forests, environment,
cultural heritage, utilities and overall state economic and industrial planning.
29.    Duration of TA Loan and Reviews: The TA loan facility will have a five-year life from Loan
effectiveness. There will be an entry cut-off for any further state candidates for assistance at the end of



-9-
three years following Loan effectiveness. A mid-term review will be carried out jointly by DEA and the
Bank before June 30, 1999. Annual reviews of the funds utilization position in the Loan will commence
no later than December 15, 1998, in order to respond to any cases of significant funds under-utilization
and any cases of need for increased funds allocation, based on the strong performance of a state in
reforms implementation and project preparations and its proven requirement for increased TA financing.
30.    Role of the Bank During Project Implementation: The role of the Bank would be to: approve
the candidate states for accessing the TA Loan funds; supervise the project preparation activities; provide
clearances after review for the environmental and social assessments; approve the list of prioritized roads
to be included for detailed feasibility studies financed under the project; provide 'no objection' for
procurement of consultants and other TA services; review each State's selection of roads for final detailed
engineering as the basis for project appraisal; provide advice on enhancement of road sector activities and
outputs, particularly on the more generic problems of the sector and comparable international 'best
practice'; and reimburse eligible expenditures from the TA Loan, on application by GOI.
31.    Budget Provisions: The state governments will be required to make advance budgetary
provision for all expenditures connected with the project preparation, including the tax liability in respect
of the foreign fee payments. They may seek reimbursement of eligible expenditures through the
Controller of Aid Accounts and Audits (CAAA), DEA.
32.    Eligible Expenditures: Subject to availability of funds, the TA Loan will finance the following
eligible expenditures:
(a)    consultant fees for feasibility studies, social and environmental preparations,
detailed engineering preparation, and sector development studies;
(b)    fees and costs involved in agreed training, travel, consultancy advice, systems
and technoiogy improvements, studies, seminars, workshops and/or other project
preparation needs;
(c)    essential equipment, materials, services and/or capital costs for
pilot/test/demonstration projects/studies/works; and
(d)    consultancy services for DEA's 'process management' functions in the
implementation of the Project.
The State Governments will be expected to use their own funds to fully meet expenditure on the tax
liability arising out of foreign currency payments to consultants, and normally also to meet the costs of
preparation of the preliminary Strategic Options Study (SOS).
33.    Loan Reimbursements and the Special Account: All eligible expenditures will be reimbursed
from the proceeds of the TA Loan. A Special Accoint of US$3 million will be established, at the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI), to meet anticipated expenditures of about four months. Eligible payments greater
than US$ 1,000,000 or of value greater than one third of the Special Account amount, may be paid by the
Bank directly to suppliers, at the specific request of GOI. The Special Account will be replenished on the
basis of reimbursement claims for eligible expenditures received by the Bank. The expenditures will be
reimbursed to the states by GOI under its standard policy on release of external assistance funds to the
states.
34.    Project Implementation Reporting and Monitoring: For project management purposes, a
detailed program of activities will be prepared by the Borrower within six (6) months of Loan



- 10-
effectiveness, indicating clearly the responsibilities of the various parties, the time for commencement
and completion of each individual activity and the projected completion date for all activities. The
reporting based thereon will be due with the Bank quarterly and annually in formats satisfactory to the
Bank, consistent with the requirements outlined at Attachment 4. This will, inter alia, be based on
monitoring between the Borrower and the participating States to be facilitated by computerized means
using 'critical path' project monitoring/management software.
35.   The following project implementation milestones should be included in such reporting:
* Finalization between DEA and each State of a Participation Agreement
* Development of a procurement plan by each state covering major items to be procured, their
approximate values, the method and timing of procurement
* GOI and/or State budget provisions to facilitate project expenditures
* Accounting and audit requirements for project expenditure
* Key stages in each State's investment project preparations and sector institutional and
financing reform plans
* Anticipated timing of Bank project appraisal in each participating state
* Annual Bank/DEA 'project allocations review', starting December 1998
*  Mid-term review of the project, prior to June 30, 1999
* Loan closure, December 31, 2001
* Completion of draft Implementation Completion Report, June 2002
36.   Progress Monitoring indicators: These will be applied progressively to assess the effectiveness
of the TA Loan's utilization and whether the Loan objectives are being met. These will include but not
necessarily be limited to the following (adapted as necessary between the Borrower and the Bank):
(a)    Measures of to be reported centrally on overall Project progress:
*  The number of states that have contracted PCC services
*  The number of states that initiate TA-supported studies on key sector reforms
*  The number of states that adopt an action plan arising from studies on sector reforms
*  The number of feasibility studies and environmental assessments completed
*  The number of detailed engineering packages completed and volume of roads covered
therein for subsequent planned investment
*  The number of states' proposed projects appraised by the Bank
*  The number and value of states' projects approved for Bank financing
(b)    Measures to be reported per State and overall:
*  Percentage increase in maintenance budget relative to 1996197
*  Person-days of training completed
*  The rate of utilization of TA funds (as a percentage of committed contracts)
*  Timeliness of payment (average number of days between submission of claims and
payment, for all relevant claims in the reporting period)
*  Timeliness of procurement events (aggregate days behind or ahead of procurement
schedule, averaged over all procurement actions)



Attachment 1
INDIA
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MODEL PROJECT EDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION F1RAMEWORK
(PIPF)
Objective and Strategy
I.    The overall objective of the Bank's assistance is to improve the beneficiary State's road
transport infrastructure (physical network, operations and management) in a sustainable manner,
by efficiently removing road transport bottlenecks, lowering transport costs and improving the
maintenance of road network assets.
2.    The overall strategy identified between the Government of India (GOI) and the Bank for effective
project-based lending assistance to States in this context, is to strengthen and shift onto a sound
business management approach, the provision, management and maintenance of road
infrastructure, through:
- emphasis on overall network planning, with priority for the needs of high-traffic-
density routes/corridors;
- achievement of effective sustainable funding and management of road maintenance;
- introduction of international road construction methods, quality and management
standards;
- demonstration of the effectiveness of independent technical consultants and
contractors in project implementation, and of competition in the delivery of road
infrastructure services;
- implementation of sound high-return road infrastructure investments;
- comprehensive preparations for management of the environmental implications and
the social impacts of proposed road investments; and
- strengthening and modernization of State institutional arrangements, policies,
resources and capacities for the management of the sector.
Identification, Preparation and Implementation Requirements
3.    To be confident of achieving efficient, timely and sound project implementation, the preparation
of proposals for any Bank-assisted state-level road infrastructure investment projects in India will
normally need to comprise the following key elements:



- 12 -
(a) Strategic Options Study
The first substantive action, to be initiated by the individual State, will be a preliminary
network-wide Strategic Options Study (SOS), typically using road and traffic network data
already available to the State. This SOS is aimed at (i) providing an objective basis for and
strengthening the selection rationale for the likely roads investrnent priorities; (ii)
confirming the State's road funding history, and (iii) outlining the State's intended project
financing strategy. The SOS should include verified data on relevant State-wide population
size, composition and distribution; any protected 'cultural heritage' assets, and sensitive
environmental features which should all be taken into account in planning for the proposed
project.
(b)  Feasibility Study(-ies)
Full economic and technical feasibility studies on the priority investments identified via the
Strategic Options Study. The feasibility studies will also include a state-wide social and
environmental screening, inclusive of the preparation and review of full strip maps of the
proposed road sections; maps of environmentally sensitive areas such as reserves, forests,
national parks, wetlands and/or sensitive habitats; and census-based population distribution
maps/data indicating relevant population intensities and locations of indigenous peoples'
groups near the project sites.
(c)  Preliminary Engineering and Environmental & Social Impact Assessments
Preparation of preliminary engineering design standards for the full length of the proposed
road investments under the project, to be ready by Bank appraisal stage, as a basis for and
coordinated with preparation of an appropriate Environmental Assessment and preparations
for any necessary Social Impact (Resettlement & Rehabilitation) action plans (see (d) and
(e) immediately below).
(d)  Environment Assessment
A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be required for all of the civil works
components of the project, in parallel with the project feasibility studies; followed by a full
Environmental Assessment (EA) wherever sensitive issues have been identified in the SEA,
prior to Bank appraisal. The preparation of the SEA and EA must be in full compliance
with the World Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 4.01.
(e)  Social Impact / Resettlement & Rehabilitation (R & R)
The preparation of (i) a preliminary screening of likely Project Affected Persons (PAP) and
structures along the proposed project road sections; (ii) a full Baseline Socio-Economic-
Survey (BSES) for the identified impact areas of all proposed works, and (iii) a satisfactory
draft R&R policy-based Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) which has been endorsed by the
State Government, will each be required as part of project preparations, as per the Bank's
OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. In addition, if indigenous people ('tribals') are
likely to be sited within the impact areas, a full Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP) will need to be prepared, in accordance with the Bank's OD 4.20 on Indigenous
Peoples.
In all projects, the principle of linking completion of resettlement with any order to proceed
with civil works shall apply. No physical work shall be undertaken on any stretch of road
before resettlement has been undertaken in accordance with a framework of entitlements,
which shall be agreed upon before appraisal. This framework shall describe categories of
losses, definitions of affected and entitled persons, their entitlements in the form of
compensation or other assistance, and the institutional framework for implementing a



- 13 -
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). It shall also contain mechanisms for public participation
and local consultation, for monitoring and evaluation, and for coordination among the
project authorities and the various local jurisdictions involved in the road infrastructure
project. This framework must conform to OD 4.30 and shall apply for all components of
the project, also in cases where a phased approach is being used.
Based on this framework, a draft RAP shall be prepared before the project's appraisal. It
shall contain an estimate of likely affected persons as described below, as well as a budget
and a schedule of implementation, and other details as described in the applicable Tertns of
Reference (TOR). The draft RAP shall be finalized after detailed designs are completed
and exact impacts and numbers of affected persons are known, based on one or a
combination of two scenarios:
(i)    Where the alignment is known, a full census of all likely PAPs must be
included in the RAP. Detailed engineering designs must be available for
at least 25% of the project roads, and preliminary design must be
completed for the remaining 75% of the project roads, to identify PAPs
within the entire corridor of impact. Once designs are finalized, the
RAP shall be modified to incorporate any changes in impacts on PAPs,
or their numbers.
(ii)    Where the full alignment is not known before project appraisal, a phased
approach shall be used. Preliminary screening shall be undertaken
before determining the alignment, and likely social impacts and losses of
assets shall be weighed along with financial, technical, environmental
and other screening criteria. Once that has been done, the RAP must be
updated to incorporate the new information.
(f) Final Engineering for Project Appraisal Requirements
Preparation before the time of Bank project appraisal of a representative sample (in terms of
different types and settings) of at least 25% of the total length of proposed project road
investments to detailed engineering standard. At this stage, the planned civil works should
also be arranged into sufficiently large contract 'packages' to attract international as well as
domestic contractors with larger-scale high-quality road construction experience.
(g)  Institutional Strengthening
As an integral part of the overall project preparations, prior to Bank appraisal, this will
require the preparation of essential non-capital components aimed directly at sustainable
enhancements to the State's capacity for effective road infrastructure management and
financing, via (inter alia):
(i) action for early strengthening of the State's capacity to manage the proposed
project and ensure timely implementation through a review of procurement
decision-making procedures, provision of appropriate training and
upgraded resources, appropriate Technical Assistance (TA), and early
establishment of a dedicated agency unit (e.g., Project Management Unit) to
manage the proposed project.
(ii) preparation (or updating) of a State transport sector strategy, covering the
main physical, operational, financial and policy aspects of the major transport
modes over the next 5-10 years (subject to the quality of the available data and



- 14-
indicators), including a particular focus on the outlook for the road transport sub-
sector in this context and the realistic financing strategy(-ies) for both ongoing
road maintenance and road infrastructure investment priorities.
(iii) review of the State's future financial and organizational requirements for more
effective management of road infrastructure development and maintenance in a
transport-oriented context, resulting in the preparation of specific time-bound
action plans for regulatory/policy, organizational and financing improvements,
inclusive of:
-  indicators for improved road agency and sector performance;
-  State-level policy/regulatory measures to improve the efficiency of road
transport and of the management of road infrastructure;
-  measures for more effective facilitation of private sector investment and
participation in the provision and management of road infrastructure; and
-  specifications for an effective framework for consultation with public and
private sector 'stakeholder' representatives on road infrastructure plans and
priorities.
(iv) training and staff development action to re-orient and enhance the
institutional capabilities of the State agency(-ies) and key private sector
participants concerned with the provision and maintenance of road
infrastructure in the State; and
(v) comprehensive improvement of relevant budgeting, programming, financial and
contract management, project management and monitoring/reporting systems,
skills and practices, to ensure sustainability of the proposed project's benefits.
(h)  Project Implementation Supervision
The implementation of all civil works under the project, implemented once the project has
been approved by the Bank's Board, will require the services of independent Supervision
consultants engaged by the Borrower and appointed with full powers as the Engineer as per
FIDIC conditions.
Financing and Procurement Aspects of Project Preparation
4.     The initial production of an SOS which satisfactorily meets the aims and purposes described at
para. 3 (a) above, will be each individual State's responsibility. The costs of any consultancy services
engaged by the State for this purpose should normally also be met by the State concerned from its own
finances.
5.     For the action at stages (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) above, the State should secure the services of
internationally-experienced Project Coordination Consultants (PCC) to manage and coordinate the
feasibility studies, other techno-economic, environmental and social preparations, preliminary and final
engineering of the proposed project, resulting in the preparation of a project package suitable for Bank
appraisal, as well as subsequently assisting the State with the project's implementation and supervision
stages.



- 15 -
6.     The costs of such PCC services for effective project preparation action up to the stage of Bank
appraisal will be substantial (typically in the range of US $1.5 -3.5 million, depending on project
size/complexity). The likely services for subsequent PCC services, beyond Bank appraisal, e.g. for stage
(h) above, cannot be confirmed until the outcome of preparations for Bank appraisal is known.
7.    The cost of the separate technical and professional services likely to be required for preparation of
assessments, policy measures, action plans, etc., for the Sector Institutional and Financing Reforms/
Strengthening component(s) outlined at stage (g) above, can only be separately determined once the
specific features of each State's sector circumstances and proposals are fully resolved.
8.     Procurement action for all civil works funded with Bank assistance under any resultant
investment project will be in strict accordance with World Bank International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
and/or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. The procurement of both civil works and
consultants' services will use the India-specific version of the Bank's Standard Bid Documents as
promulgated by the Government of India (GOI), and where appropriate, the standard 'pre-qualification'
documentation also promulgated by GOI for all externally-assisted projects.



- 16-
Attachment 2
INDIA
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Initial Project Funds Allocation*
(US$ million equivalent)
(state)         Project prep'n. &    Policy supp't.    Project        Total
& impl'n. supp't.    & inst'l. devel't.    mgt.
Andhra Pradesh                  3.00               0.70                           3.70
Bihar **
Goa **
Gujarat                         3.50               0.70                          4.20
Haryana                          1.50              0.70                           2.20
Karnataka                       2.00               0.70                           2.70
Kerala **
Maharashtra                     2.50               0.70                           3.20
Mahdya Pradesh                  2.50               0.70                          3.20
Orissa                          2.50               1.00                          3.50
Punjab                          3.50               0.70                           4.20
Rajasthan                       3.50               0.70                          4.20
Tamil Nadu                      3.50               1.00                           4.50
(& Pondicherry)
Uttar Pradesh                   3.00               0.70                           3.70
West Bengal                     2.50               1.00                           3.50
Special Category                4.00               1.15                           5.00
States***
Unallocated                     3.00               1.85                          4.70
GOI Project                       --               --             0.35           0.35
Implementation
Total                           40.50             12.15           0.35           53.00
* Excluding in-India taxes on consultants' fees, etc.
* * No proposal has yet been indicated by these states
*** States acknowledged by GOI as, due to their weak economic base, warranting up to 90% annual
Budget assistance from GOT (Arunchal Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur,
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura)
NOTE:
(i) TA financing assistance up to-the above indicated amounts will be made available by GOI to the
respective States progressively, once they have met the conditions for participation in the Project;
(ii) A cap of US$5.5 million will normally apply to a State's cumulative access to TA financing under this
project;
(iii) Utilization of project funds will proceed on the 'first come, first served' principle at all times.



-17-
INDIA
STATES'ROAD NFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT: TECHNICAL ASSI$TANCE PROJECT
Project Activity Outline
|   State Governments' Acceptance of Strategy
and Outline of Policy-based Reforms
[ DEA/SG finalize Participation Agreement   1                                                             | SG establishes multi-agency Empoweredl
leading to allocation of funds          f                                                           >   Committee (EC)
WB reviews TOR for main 'reforms'                                                                        Mobilization of Project
TA components                                      SG commissions studies of Policy, Financing           Coordinating Consultant services (PCC)
Organizational, and Maintenance Reforms and
outlines Public Information/Consultation Action      PCC completes feasibility study report
WB reviews Policy/Financing /Maintenance           to be taken                                          leading to final SG selection of project roads
reform recommendations
Decisions by SG on financial/organizational            PCC completes Environmental and Social
and policy recommendations of studies including        Impact screenings
enhanced funding for maintenance
| WB reviews draft EA al Id RAP proposals   I                                  PCC prepares draft EIA report and draft
SG gets clearance from MOEF for EIA                   R&R/RAP policy package
l                      ~~~~~~~~~(if category A) and WB responses           lI 
WB reviews Detailed Engineering Reports                                       ~~~~~~~~~~Production of Detailed Engineering (DE) for atI
WB reviews Detailed Engineering Reports  <   |                                  ~~~~~~~~least 25% sample of project roads*l
|                    [ ~~~~~~~SG takes initial key actions on maintenance ll
SG/PCC takes key procurement actions
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|                    | ~~~~~~~reforms and institutional strengthening       |SG/PCtkskypocrmn,cin 
WI   c         bid documents                                                                                D  a(GPN/PQ)and prepares biddocuments 7r5
a)
|                    | ~~~~~~~~WB/SG appraise the proposed State   |_=PCt iaieRP ae  n2%sml  
Sa te Highways Project                               P  1     f                       a
l                    I                   >1                                  g~~~~~ DE and preliminary designs for other 75%  |:3
| Board Presentation of proposed            |       |BdadAad(iiu   5   fwrs  
| State Highways Project                               Bi an Awr (mnmm2I fwrs
Proposed State Highways Project
Loan(s) Effectiveness                      * Action on remaining 75% DE follows.



INDIA
STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators                   Monitoring and Supervision            Critical Assumptions and
Risks
1. CAS Objective:
I. Promote state-level reforms in road   1. I Adoption by several states of appropriate  1.1.1. Status reports on DEA and Bank policy    1. Sector reforms will lead to
infrastructure sector and assist   reform and investment strategies in road      dialogue with the states.                   improved use of public
increased sector investment.       infrastructure sector.                        1.1.2 Number of states whr complete         resources and improved
Participating Agreemenes under this project.  provision and sustainability of
states' road infrastructure.
2. Project Development Objectives
2.1 Support reforms to planning,    2.1. Reform plans established, initiating policy  2.1. Progress reports by States, DEA and Bank  2.1 Reforms will lead to
financing, provision, maintenance and  actions taken and improved maintenance    on status of reforms implementation.        sustained improvements in     co
management of road transport        strategy, organizational and financing                                                   states in key sector capacities.
infrastructure by states' road agencies.  frameworks being implemented by states.
2.2 Support comprehensive          2.2 Pipeline of viable states' road infrastructure   2.2 Progress reports from states and DEA.  2.2 Investment project
preparation of major road           investment projects fully prepared to Bank                                               preparation assistance will
infrastructure investment proposals for  lending requirements ready for and/or being                                         achieve timely works
implementation with Bank financing,  implemented.                                                                            implementation.
aimed at improved efficiency of
states' road transport network.
2.3 Assist states towards increased  2.3 Implementation by states of external services  2.3 Reports from states on implementation  2.3 States' action on 'out-
privatization of roads engineering,  for preparation of Bank-assisted projects.  status of PCC services, and from states/DEA on  sourcing' will (i) be
construction, works supervision and    Policies favoring substantial 'out-sourcing' of  policies' impacts on PWD functions and  implemented by affected
maintenance services in the sector.  design, construction, supervision and       procurements.                               agencies and (ii) lead to
maintenance by their PWD/road agencies                                                   upgradation of comparable
implemented by states.                                                                   and cost-effective private
sector resources.                XI



Narrative Summary                     Key Performance Indicators                     Monitoring and Supervision              Critical Assumptions and
Risks
3. Project Outputs
3.1 States implement sustainable road  3.1 At least 6 states implement reform       3.1 States' Empowered Committees (ECs)         3.1 States will maintain
sector reform and 'institutional     measures/plans, inclusive of any necessary state    monitoring reports, State Government/Bank  political commitment to
strengthening' strategies.           legislative actions, and enact policy measures to   status report on overall reforms implementation,  follow-through reform
improve facilitation of private sector investment.                                           actions.
3.2 States formulate and initiate    3.2 Increase in long-term maintenance funding    3.2 PCCs' project progress reports and ECs'  3.2 States and main sector
major sustainable improvements in    levels, increase in quantity of priority       monitoring reports, plus State Governments'    stakeholders will support (i)
financing and performance of road    maintenance works performed, and improved      status reviews.                                additional levies/taxes for
network maintenance.                 road maintenance 'input/output' and quality                                                   roads-specific funding and (ii)
outcomes, in at least 6 states. Action plans                                                 rational prioritization of
launched in 6 states for sustainable, dedicated                                              maintenance programs.
road funding mechanisms.
3.3 States prepare major investment    3.3 At least 6 states' road investment proposals   33 Progress reports by ECs and DEA/Bank  3.3 States will (i) apply
project proposals to meet all Bank   satisfy Bank appraisal and achieve Bank lending   status report on project appraisals and Board  PCCs effectively, and (ii)
appraisal/ lending requirements, ready  'effectiveness' by the project's end.       presentations.                                 implement Bank's EA and
for implementation.                                                                                                                R&R project requirements.
3.4 States implement major and       3.4 Implementation of PCC services (with       3.4 PCC project progress reports, monitoring   3.4 PCC firms and the private
effective 'out-sourcing' to private  'skills/technology transfer' components) in at  reports by ECs and Bank/ State Government     sector will deliver sound cost-
sector by PWD/road agencies of 'in   least 6 states, and substantive 'out-sourcing'  reviews of 'out-sourcing' effectiveness.      effective resources for road
house' project engineering, works    policy measures implemented in at least 6 states.                                             agencies' needs.
execution and maintenance services.
4. Project Components
4.1  TA for Engineering, Economics,  4.1 Feasibility studies, preliminary works     4.1 PCC reports, monitoring reports from       4.1 and 4.2 States will (i)
Environment and Social (R&R) pre-    designs, detailed engineering packages, sectoral   states' ECs, PDAT reports on PCC contract  manage TA and PCC services
investment project preparations by   EAs and RAPs each completed on schedule and    awards status and overall Bank status reports.    effectively; (ii) promptly
states.                             to Bank specifications by at least 6 states.                                                  initiate dedicated Project
Management resources; (iii)
4.2 TA for (i) states' priority needs in  4.2 Action plans established and/or being  4.2 States' ECs' reports on PCC programs,     ensure available funds for         ri
capacity-building/training in project   implemented in at least 6 states. Delivery of  monitoring by DEA and Bank reviews of       contract obligations; and
planning and management;             specified PCC 'skills/technology transfer'     strategies and implementation.                 (iv) implement effective           9
procurement, contract and financial    services completed in at least 6 states.                                                    Empowered Committees
management; and                                                                                                                    (ECs) to steer TA and project
(ii) transfer of 'best practice' skills,                                                                                           actions.
methods and/or technology to road
agencies and participating local
industry.



Narrative Summary                     Key Performance Indicators                     Monitoring and Supervision             Critical Assumptions and
Risks
4. Project Components (cont'd.)
4.3 TA for states' development of    4.3.1 Detailed action plans, endorsed by State  4.3.1 and 4.3.2 States' ECs monitoring reports,  4.3 States' agencies and
effective medium-term action plans   Governments and satisfactory to the Bank,      DEA multi-state status reports and Bank review   sector stakeholders will
for policy, legal, structural,       undergoing implementation in at least 6 states.  of states' project status.                   support reform strategy for
organizational, staffing and/or                                                                                                    improved network conditions,
resource improvements for sustainable  4.3.2 Network-based planning introduced in at                                               sector services and overall
road sector management reforms in  least 6 states.                                                                                 asset management.
planning, financing, development and
maintenance of network assets,       4.3.3 Revised private sector investment policies   4.3.3 Monitoring reports by ECs, State
including facilitation of private sector  implemented and positive investment results  Government and Bank reviews of policy actions
investment, resulting in shift of road    demonstrated in at least 4 states.        and impact.
agencies' role from provider to
manager of road infrastructure for the
state.
4.4 TA for (i) states' studies and   4.4 Completed studies and endorsed action plans  4.4 Monitoring reports by ECs,               4.4 States will resist political
development of action plans for      for technical, operational and managerial reforms  status reviews by the Bank and overall project    pressures (i) for construction
sustainable improvements to road     for implementation in at least 6 states, and   monitoring reports by DEA.                     funding priority versus
maintenance policy and practices;    initiation of revised long-term funding                                                       maintenance and (ii) from
and (ii) states' implementation of   arrangements / mechanisms in those states.                                                    vested interests for constraints
higher sustainable funding for road                                                                                                on rational maintenance
maintenance.                                                                                                                       priorities.
4.5 Procurement of priority          4.5 Procurement actions completed satisfactorily  4.5 PCC progress reports, PDAT reports on   4.5 States will promptly
equipment and technology to improve  and equipment/systems commissioned in at least  status of procurement actions, and ECs        identify and process essential
project procurement, financial and   6 states.                                      monitoring reports.                            procurements.
contracts management and overall
road network management capacity.                                                                                                                                     >
4.6 Investment in minor civil works    4.6 Works completed and pre-investment study,   4.6 PCC progress reports, PDAT reviews of   4.6 States' PCCs will             CD
for pre-investment pilot study,      testing and/or demonstration objectives for    procurement status, ECs' monitoring reports   efficiently prepare and
demonstration and/or testing purposes.  project preparations met in at least 2 states.  and Bank reviews.                         implement proposals               (K



INDIA: STATES' ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Performance Monitoring Indicators
Au ~~~ xen  c                     t '        ritleal
DevelopMent Objective I: Support reforms to planning, financing, provision, maintenance and management of road
infrastructure by States' road agencies.
TA for review of    - Number of states that initiate  Study reports issued,    States will resist
Development of action plans for sustainable  maintenance     and complete TA-supported      monitoring reports by  domestic pressures
improvements in road maintenance       standards, policy and  studies on maintenance reforms   ECs and status reviews  for construction
practices           * expected in at least 3 states at   by the Bank       funding priority Vs
the end of 24 months after project                    maintenance
start and in at least 6 states at
project end
Implementation of higher sustainable    TA for review of long-  -Number of states that initiate and  States' ECs monitoring   States will resist
funding for road maintenance           term funding needs,   complete TA-supported studies    reports and Bank review  pressures from vested
means and for       on road maintenance reforms     of states' project status   interests for
implementation of   -Number of states that adopt                           constraints on rational
decisions           action plans to reduce shortfall of                    maintenance priorities
maintenance funds
* expected in at least 3 states at
the end of 24 months after project
start and in at least 6 states at
project end
Development of effective medium-term   TA for review of     - Number of states that initiate  States' ECs monitoring   States' agencies and
action plans for policy, legal, structural,  institutional needs,    and complete TA-supported  reports and Bank review  sector stakeholders  >
organizational, staffing and/or resource  options and resource  studies to develop institutional  of states' project status   will support reform  ^
improvements for sustainable road sector    requirements for  reform measures                                      strategy for improved
management reforms in planning, financing, future effectiveness   -Number of states that adopt an                  network conditions,
development and maintenance of network    and for           action plan for institutional                          sector services and
assets                                 implementation of    reform/strengthening, inclusive of                     overall asset           ^
initiating measures    introduction of network-based                       management              n
roads planning
* expected in at least 3 states at
the end of 24 months after project
start and in at least 6 states at
I project end



~~~~~~~. ...E..                                                     X                                                     |  lll......
| W. .........~~~~~~~~~~.....  n.   X  +p........                .....    ............ .    
Componet.                     nusMntrn  idiator.O                                                ~      I    .
Development Objective 2  Support preparation of major road infrastructure investment proposals for Bank financing,
aimed at improvedefficiency of states' road network.
Engineering, Economic, Environment and    TA to undertake  - Number of States that have   PCC reports, monitoring  States' will (i) manage
Social (R&R) pre-investment project    feasibility studies,  contracted PCC               reports from states'  TA and PCC services
preparations by states                 preliminary works   - Number of feasibility studies,  ECs, and overall Bank   effectively; (ii) initiate
designs, detailed   detailed engineering components,  status reports     dedicated Project
engineering         RAPs and EAs completed                               Management
packages, sectoral   -Number of Projects appraised                       resources promptly;
EAs and RAPs        -Number of projects approved                         (iii) ensure available
* completion of all the above                        funds for contract
expected in at least 3 states at the                 obligations; and (iv)
end of 24 months after project                       implement effective
start and in at least 6 states at                    Empowered
project end                                          Committees (ECs) to
-Km of roads for which detailed                      steer TA and project    r
engineering (DE) studies                             actions
completed
* at least 3000 km DE expected
by project end                _
Assistance with (i) priority needs in capacity- (i) TA to improve  - Number of States that have  States' ECs reports on
building/training in project planning and  PWDs resources and  contracted PCC services with  relevant PCC programs,
management; procurement, contract and  skills for project  training/development /assistance   PCC progress reports
financial management; and (ii) transfer of    needs        components                     and Bank reviews of
'best practice' skills, methods and/or  (ii) Training and  * expected in at least 3 states at   strategies and impacts
technology to road agencies and        development via PCC  the end of 24 months after project
participating local industry          services             start and in at least 6 states at
(iii) TA to identify,  project end
procure and         - Timeliness of contract
implement priority  payments
equipment and         ..f
tequipmntl and- Timeliness of procurement                                                        D
technology          evns2                                    ~
events 
- Rate of utilization of TA funds
Average number of days between submission of claims and payment, for all relevant claims in the reporting period, relative to a target of not more than 45 days.
2 Aggregate days behind or ahead of procurement schedule, averaged over all procurement actions; target = on schedule.



- 23 -
Pre-investment pilot study, demonstration    TA to identify,  Number of TA proposals for  PCC progress reports,   States' will efficiently
and/or testing of methods, technologies  develop and      minor demonstration works      ECs' monitoring reports  prepare and
and/or concepts to be integrated in project   implement minor civil  implemented         and Bank reviews      implement proposals
preparations                          works               - Number and impact of post-                         with PCC assistance
demonstration reports submitted
* satisfactory implementation
expected in at least I state at the
end of 24 months after project
start and in at least 2 states at
project end
evel9pmeQnt Objective a: Assist States towards increased privatization of roads engineering construction, works
supervision and maintenance services In the sector.
(A
(i) TA for review of    - Number of states that initiate  Monitoring reports by    States' decisions on
Facilitation of (i) measures for private  institutional needs,    TA-supported studies on relevant  ECs, State Government  role shift in sector
sector investment, and of (ii) shift of road    options and resource  reforms and implement  and Bank reviews of  agencies will be
agencies' role from provider to manager of  requirements to  substantive 'out-sourcing" policy   policy actions and  implemented by those
road infrastructure for the state     change the sectoral   measures                    impact                 agencies and private
role of road agencies   * expected in at least 3 states at              sector will deliver
(ii)TA to develop   the end of 24 months after project                  sound cost-effective
appropriate         start and in at least 6 states at                   resources for
policy/administrative   project end                                     agencies' future
measures for private   - Number of states that adopt                    needs.
sector investment in  plans for improved facilitation of                Private sector
roads               private sector roads investment                     investment capacity    D
* expected in at least 2 states at                  will be mobilized once
the end of 24 months after project                  are    proved
start and in at least 4 states at                   a3
project end                                        r_
v.l



-24-
Attachment 6
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT
Country                      INDIA
Project Name                  Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project
Region                        South Asia
Sector                        Road Transport
Project ID                    IN PA 9995
Borrower                      Government of India
Implementing Agency           Roads & Buildings Department (RBD)
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad - 500 022, India
Contact: Principal Secretary
Transport, Roads & Buildings
Telephone: 91-40-234-591
Fax:       91-40-393-197
Date Prepared                 October 1996
Projected Appraisal Date      December 1996
Projected Board Date          March 1997
1.     Country and Sector Background
1. I At national and state levels, the transport scene in India is characterized by the growing importance of
road transport. The demand for intercity freight transport in India is expected to double every 12 years
while the demand for passenger transport is expected to double every 8-9 years. The share of total demand
going to roads in India is now about 60 percent of freight and 85 percent of passenger traffic, with the
railroads carrying the balance.
1.2 Since 1950, the core system of paved National roads and State roads (State Highways and state Major
District Roads) has expanded over seven-fold, from about 19,800 km to about 156,000 Iam, yet comprised
only 2% and 20% respectively of all roads in the 1990 national road inventory. In traffic terms, however,
the National network carries about 35 % of all road traffic while the State network carries about 60 %,
leaving 5 percent for the rural road network. The rapid expansion of the network, although achieving the
political and social objectives of national connectivity and rural access, was only made possible by
spreading resources over a great deal of single-lane (3.75 m wide) and intermnediate-lane (5.5 m)
carriageway roads with thin pavements. India's arterial road system is now highly congested and of poor
riding quality, causing high vehicle operating costs and low quality services for users.
1.3 A declining share for road investments in Plan funding allocations is in large part responsible for this
situation. However, at least equally serious for road programs are the absorptive capacity and
implementation constraints the sector agencies such the state Public Works Departments (PWDs). Sector
reforms are needed to foster introduction of high-quality engineering services and technologically
advanced road construction practices capable of delivering cost-effective, high-quality road infrastructure
on schedule, and to foster sound, systematic road network maintenance policies to maximize road asset life.
Some of India's states (led by Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan) have now, with national



- 25 -
government support, endorsed such reforms in their context for implementation in conjunction with major
road upgrading proposals involving the Bank's assistance.
1.4 The State of Andhra Pradesh with a population of approximately 70 million and an area of 275,000
square km is both the fifth most populous and fifth largest State of the Union. The highway network of the
State consists of a total of 138,000 km of highways of which 2,950 km are classified as National Highways
(NH), 8,750 km as State Highways (SH), and 32,650 as Major District Roads (MDR). Even though the
SH/MDR network carries over 60% of the State's traffic, 53% of SH and nearly 90% of MDRs are still
single lane. Vehicle registrations have increased by approximately 16% per annum during the last five
years and traffic is projected to grow at least at 7-8% per annum for the foreseeable future. This indicates
that for many of the road links, congestion is already a serious problem.
2.     Project Objectives. The objectives of the project will be to: (a) promote a more rational and
efficient approach to road investment planning, management and maintenance at the state level; (b)
improve the GOAP's institutional capabilities in the sector; (c) improve longer-term resource mobilization
in the sector to ensure financial sustainability of the State's SH/MDR network; (d) upgrade the capabilities
of the private engineering and construction industry to meet growing demand for high quality highways,
engineering and construction services; and (e) improve the riding quality and capacity of selected
congested segments of the SH/MDR network to reduce vehicle operating costs, travel time, accidents and
pollution.
3.     Project Description. The proposed project would principally consist of: (a) civil works for
widening and rehabilitation of about 1100 km of state highways; (b) financing, during the project period,
of a declining share of road maintenance needs; (c) technical assistance for updating and expanding a
pavement management system for state roads; (d) technical assistance for reforming and institutional
strengthening of the State's road transport agencies and sustainable financing of road maintenance; and (e)
consulting services for project engineering design, monitoring and coordination of implementation, and for
supervision of civil works.
4.     Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost including contingencies and taxes is
estimated at approximately USS 350 million, which will finance the widening, strengthening and/or
rehabilitation of up to 1400 km of major roads, necessary consultancy and supervision services,
strengthened maintenance of Andhra Pradesh's major road network, and institutional strengthening
measures. The actual project amount is subject to further review at appraisal. The World Bank will
finance 70% of the estimated final total project cost with a IBRD loan of approximately US$ 254 million
and the Government of Andhra Pradesh will meet the 30% counterpart funding.
5.     Project Implementation. The proposed project would be implemented by the Government of
Andhra Pradesh through its Roads and Buildings Department (RBD), with the comprehensive assistance of
Project Coordinating Consultants (PCC) funded under the project.
6.     Lessons from Previous Operations. The project implementation record of the sector has been
mixed, with poor performance most often attributable to: (i) inadequate pre-qualification standards for
contractors; (ii) weak project implementation and management capacities for complex civil works
contracts; (iii) ineffectuality of contract performance provisions; (iv) shortage of competent mechanized
road construction contractors; (v) the Bank's logistical difficulties in supervising multi-state projects; (vi)
facilitation delays in land acquisition and clearance of obstructions from project roadways; (vii) poor
quality of project surveys and designs; and (viii) limited assimilation by borrowers of agreed Bank
procurement rules.
7.     Project Sustainability. This will be addressed at two complementary levels. The project works
being implemented with the PCC services will entail internationally-proven engineering standards and
practices. A progressive skills transfer program for RBD staff is to be provided, and various forms of
technical assistance will target the RBD's skills and systems needs to achieve more effective technical and



- 26-
operational management. The quality of the project road works should themselves ensure road
performance and durability considerably exceeding current norms. The longer-term sustainability of the
project benefits would be ensured through: (i) strengthened processes for improved road maintenance
planning and execution; (ii) the re-orientation of the RBD's roads functions increasingly involving private
sector project engineering, construction and supervision services; and (iii) associated institution building
measures to strengthen the organizational, policy and financial dimensions of road infrastructure
management in Andhra Pradesh.
8.     Poverty Category. This project is not directly aimed at poverty alleviation, although it will also
produce distributed benefits progressively in that context.
9.     Environmental and Social Impact. A sector-level Environment Assessment will be completed
before Bank appraisal of the project, with provision for more detailed assessment if necessary. Minimum
adverse environmental impacts are expected during construction operations and from the road works, as
the construction of any new roads is not envisaged. All project works will be limited to the strengthening,
widening and/or improvement of road pavements and shoulders within the existing right of way,
minimizing the need for land acquisition and the involuntary resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of
people en route. Where R&R aspects arise, this will be surveyed beforehand and comprehensively
addressed in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines. Beneficial environmental impacts are expected
due to the improved engineering of roads leading to decreased traffic congestion, lower noise levels and
improved safety.
10.    Project Benefits & Project Risks. The main direct benefits expected from this project will be
(i) greater efficiency in transport operations on the State's road network; (ii) more effective management
and maintenance of the major road network by Andhra Pradesh authorities; (iii) enhanced road planning,
financing, investment and implementation capacity in relevant State entities, and (iv) assimilation of
modem high-quality road engineering and construction methods and capabilities by the PWD and local
industry. The risks to the project relate directly to: (i) the State's ongoing commitment during project
preparation and implementation to Bank lending conditions and requirements; (ii) the effectiveness of the
state's financial planning to provide for counterpart funding obligations; (iii) the state's actions to
implement appropriate long-term funding levels as required for effective road network maintenance and
management; and (iv) inaction on the necessary institutional reforms and strengthening measures.
Managing Division:     Energy & Infrastructure Operations Division
South Asia Country Department II
Task Manager:          Chris Hoban
Telephone No.: 202-473-3783
Contact Point:         Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5454
Fax:       202-522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily be
included in the final project.



-27-
Schedule A
INDIA
STATE'S ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
....... -  oa oeg7..............................................    ..........T.....................iai..................................
Items                                                   Local   Foreign                   Total
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Consultant Services and Training,                                     5.0            42.8            47.8
(including Project Management costs)
Civil Works                                                           2.0              2.2              4.2
Equipment                                                             0.5              0.5             1.0
Taxes and Duties                                                     15.0              0.0            15.0
Total Project Cost                                                  22.5             45.5            68.0
Total Financing Required                                            22.5             45.5            68.0
......................I................................................................................ . ...................................................................................................................
FINANCING PLAN
IBRD                                                                  7.1            44.4             51.5
State Governments                                                    14.9              1.1            17.0
Government of India                                                   0.5              0.0             0.5
Total                                                    22.5             45.5            68.0
a/ Tax of about 30 percent is payable in India for foreign currency payments to
foreign consultants/firms.



- 28-
Schedule R
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
STATE'S ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement
A. Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
............................................................................................................................................................................................ iv ....................
Procurement Methods
Project Element                                    ICB                NCB   OTHER   TOTALa'
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Consultant Services and Training                                                                    47.8 b            47.8
(including Project Management costs)                                                                (46.7)           (46.7)
Civil Works                                                        4.0                  0.2                            4.2
(3.62)              (0.18)                         (3.80)
Equipment                                                          0.8                                0.2              1.0
(0.8)                             (0.2)c'           (1.0)
Total "'                                                4.8                   0.2         48.0             53.0
(4.42)               (0.18)        (46.9)           (51.5)
a Figures in Parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
b/ World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
c/ Local shopping
d/Excludes provision for Taxes and Duties



- 29 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
STATE'S ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
B. Disbursement Arrangements
US$ million equivalent
Category                                    Amount Expenditure to be Financed
.................................... . ................ ... .............. . ........... ... ........... ............................. ........ ............... ....I................................................ .....................................
Consultant Services                                            46.7  100% of expenditures
and Training
Civil Works                                                      3.8  90% of expenditures
Equipment                                                      1.0  100% of Foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Total                                              51.5
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
..............................................................................................................................................................
IBRD Fiscal Year    97    98    99    00   01
....... ... .....................................................................................................................................................
Annual                                      10.0   12.0   15.0    8.0    6.5
Cumulative                                  10.0   22.0   37.0   45.0  51.5



-30-
Schedule C
Page 1 of 4
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD) Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Porffolio
(as of September 30, 1996)
Original amount in                    Difference
USS millions                        between
expected
Project    Loan or Fiscal                                                          Cancel-   Undis-    and actual
ID       redit N   Year               Purpose                   IBRD       IDA   lations   bursed  disbursements?
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 353
Active Loans
IN-PA-10361
IN-PA-10369  C21730  1991 ICDS I (ORIS & A.P.)                                96.00      21.65   29.97           35.34
IN-PA-10381   C22340  1991 MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                              109.90               70.35          65,42
IN-PA-10390   L33640  1991 GAS FLARING REDUCTION                   450.00                         29.16          29.16
IN-PA-10391  C23280  1992 MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                               124.00               91.31          31.32
IN-PA-10393  C23410  1992 WEST BENGAL FORESTRY                                34.00               13.15           4.47
IN-PA-10400  C23500  1992 AIDS PREVENTION & CONTROL                           84.00               48.88           35.14
IN-PA-10407   L34980  1992 MAHARASHTRA POWER II                     350.00                       247.75          188.75
IN-PA-10408   C24330  1993 ADP - RAJASTHAN                                   106.00               60.54           12,43
IN-PA-10410  C24390  1993 BIHAR PLATEAU                                      117.00               99.23          46,26
IN-PA-10411  C24490  1993 RENEWABLE RESOURCES                                115.00               99.19          173.36
IN-PA-10416  C24500  1993 JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL                            12.00                7.39           6.85
IN-PA-10418   L35770  1993 PGC POWER SYSTEM                        350.00                        229.30          122.50
IN-PA-10422  C24830  1993 KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                                92.00               80.63          34.87
IN-PA-10423   L36300  1993 PRIVATE POWER DEVT T.A.                  20.00                         19.60           19.60
IN-PA-10424  L36320  1993 NTPC POWER GENERATION                    400.00                        343.32         318.32
[N-PA-10448  C25280  1993 NATL LEPROSY ELIMINATION                            85.00               63.06          28.07
IN-PA-10449  C25720  1994 FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                                47.00               39.02           15.39
IN-PA-10455  C25730  1994 ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                             77.40               70.34           14.61
IN-PA-10457  C261 10  1994 BLINDNESS CONTROL                                 117.80              110.66           12.68
IN-PA-10461   C26300  1994 POPULATION IX                                      88.60               83.57           8.21
IN-PA-10461   L39070  1995 MADRAS WATER SUP 11                        6.00                         0.01           19.61
IN-PA-10463   L39076  1995 MADRAS WATER SUP 11                      269.80                       269.80
IN-PA-10463   C26450  1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREVENT.                           25.00               25.60          24.99
IN-PA-10463   L37790  1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREVENT.                  93.00                        88.00          -3.51
IN-PA-10464   L37806  1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREVENT.                  50.00                        50.00
IN-PA-10476  C26610  1995 DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                260.30              231.09           18.69
IN-PA-10480  C27450  1995 TAMIL NADU WRCP                                    282.90              250.23          22.45
IN-PA-10480  C27630  1996 BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL                              25.00                6.95            8.88
IN-PA-10484  L39230  1996 BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL                    167.00                       167.00           10.00
IN-PA-10485   L40560  1996 UP RURAL WATER                            59.60                        59.60           0.60
IN-PA-10489  C27740  1996 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                  142.00              126.06          -4.00
IN-PA-10503  C26630  1995 AP IST REF. HEALTH                                 133.00              128.42           13.32
IN-PA-10506  C26990  1995 AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                                59.50               55.05           9.06
IN-PA-10522  C27000  1995 MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY                             58.00               50.23           -0.92
IN-PA-10529  C27330  1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                         126.00              114.97            5,31
IN-PA-10563   C28010  1996 ORISSA WRCP                                       290.90              263.71          -10.64
IN-PA-10563   L38560  1995 FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                    350.00                        200.00        -150.00
IN-PA-34162   L38576  1995 FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                     144.00                       144.00
IN-PA-35170  C25940  1994 MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUAKE                             246.00              166.92          75.17
IN-PA-35821   L40140  1996 ORISSA POWER SECTOR                     350.00                        350.00
IN-PA-35825   C28760  1996 DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                              425.20              420.98
IN-PA-36062  C28330  1996 STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS II                            350.00              331.47            6.25
IN-PA-39935   C291160  1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                    28.00               28.14
IN-PA-39935   C28380  1996 ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                                 5.00                4.91



-31-
Schedule C
Page 2 of 4
Original amount in                     Difference
USS millions                         between
expected
Project    Loan or Fiscal                                                            Cancel-   Undis-    and actual
ID       redit N   Year                Purpose                   IBRD       IDA    lations    bursed  disbursements'
IN-PA-43310   L39920  1996 ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                       200.00                       200.00
IN-PA-9860   C28620  1996 COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                                 63.00               59.49           -3.00
IN-PA-9869   C21310  1990 WTRSHED PLAINS                                       55.00               27.96            8.65
IN-PA-9870   L30240  1989 NATHPAJHAKRI HYDRO                        485.00                        266.33          238.13
IN-PA-9872   L37530  1994 CONTAINER TRANSPORT                        94.00                         82.79           34.79
IN-PA-9877   C19230  1988 TAMILNADU URBAN                                     300.20       45.47   57.56           99.85
IN-PA-9882   C22410  1991 DAM SAFETY                                          130.00              110.64          104.43
IN-PA-9885   C21000  1990 WTRSHED HILLS                                        75.00               37.96           31.19
IN-PA-9885   L32580  1991 PETROCHEMICALS                              12.00                         4.92            4.71
IN-PA-9888   L32590  1991 PETROCHEMICALS                            233.00                 70.30   36.44         -126.26
IN-PA-9890   L34360  1992 POWER UTIL EFFIC IMPROVE.                 265.00                        151.30          103.00
IN-PA-9895   C21150  1990 HYDERABAD W/S                                        79.90               40.18           27.20
IN-PA-9895   C20640  1990 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                               55.00               36.31           28.11
IN-PA-9898   L31190  1990 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                    145.00                 10.00   38.59           48.59
IN-PA-9898   C20100  1989 UPPER KRISHNA PHASE 11                              160.00               16.40            8.91
IN-PA-9906   L30500  1989 UPPER KRISHNA PHASE 11                     165.00               120.00   45.00          165.00
IN-PA-9906   C22520  1991  IND POLLUTION CONTROL                               31.60               28.48           26.35
IN-PA-9910   L33340  1991 IND POLLUTION CONTROL                     124.00                         45.29            1.44
IN-PA-9921   C20570  1989 FAMILY WELFARE TRG                                  113.30       40.54   22.07           63.45
IN-PA-9925   C23290  1992 SHRIMP & FISH CULTURE                                85.00               81.46           54.37
IN-PA-9932   L28450  1987 TALCHERTHERMAL                            375.00                 79.90   28.34          108.24
IN-PA-9940   C21580  1990 SECOND TN NUTRITION                                  95.80       28.28   21.48           29.43
IN-PA-9941   C21330  1990 POP. TRG (VII)                                       86.70       22.74    18.00          36.42
IN-PA-9946   L30960  1989 MAHARASHTRA POWER                         400.00                 46.00  169.26          200.06
IN-PA-9946   C23650  1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                                    153.00              104.02           33.18
IN-PA-9955   L34700  1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                           153.00                       153.00
IN-PA-9956   C25090  1993 UTTAR PRADESH BASIC ED.                             165.00               99.02            1.30
IN-PA-9958   L30930  1989 ELECTRONICS                                 8.00                          2.12          204.12
IN-PA-9958   C22150  1991 AGR.DEV.I (TN)                                       92.80               36.01           18.19
IN-PA-9959   L33000  1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                            20.00                         20.00            1.25
IN-PA-9961   C24090  1993 RUBBER                                               92.00               83.79           35.85
IN-PA-9963   C25100  1993 UP SODIC LANDS RECLAM.                               54.70               41.95            9.60
IN-PA-9964   C23940  1992 POPULATION Vil                                      79.00               77.85           40.53
IN-PA-9965   C25920  1994 WATER RES. CONS. HARYANA                            258.00              227.40           33.29
IN-PA-9973   C20760  1990 PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAGE                               150.00        4.72   56.59           29.76
IN-PA-9977   L29940  1989 STATE ROADS I                             170.00                 55.00   22.43          157.43
IN-PA-9981   C24700  1993 ICDS 11 (BIHAR & MP)                                194.00              186.73           60.05
IN-PA-9982   L31960  1990 CEMENTINDUSTRYRESTRUC.                    300.00                  6.82   43.60           50.42
IN-PA-9988   L32370  1990 NORREGTRANSMISSION                        485.00                        346.71          318.51
IN-PA-9989   C22230  1991 TECHNICIAN EDUC If                                  307.10       51.37  162.02          135.89
IN-PA-9990   C21300  1990 TECHNICIAN EDUC 1                                   235.00       24.26   94.51           85.31
IN-PA-9993   C20080  1989 VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                 250.00       86.15   80.34          176.16
IN-PA-9996   L33440  1991 PRIVATE POWER UTIL I                      200.00                         23.40           22.40
C20220  1989 NATIONAL SERICULTURE                               147.00      21.95   30.39            71.72
TOTAL
7093.4   7457.1       735.2  9195.4          3963.1
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                                        Closed Loans                    Total
Of which repaid                                                                         28395.83                33112.03
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                                             7817.43                 8031.16
Amount sold                                                                               20007.98                33223.09
Of which repaid                                                                           133.77                   133.77
Total undisbursed                                             54.11          8941.84        133.77                  133.77



-32-
Schedule C
Page 3 of 4
India - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of September 30, 1996
(In USS Millions)
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FYApproval           Company              Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic        Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90        MUSCO                 0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93        HDFC                 40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00     40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00
1980/82/89           Deepak                0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96    ITW Signode            0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93           M&M                   1.17    6.49    0.00    4.67      1.17    6.49    0.00    4.67
1981                 Nagarjuna Steel       0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/92/94     TISCO                13.80   15.37    0.00    0.00     13.80   15.37    0.00    0.00
1982                 Modi Cement          19.64    0.00    0.00    0.00     19.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/91              Bihar Sponge         15.23    0.68    0.00    0.00     15.23    0.68    0.00    0.00
1984/90/94           IndiaLease            1.75    0.86    0.00    0.00      1.75    0.86    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-Bannari           0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-City Mills        0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-CECL              0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-NB Footwear       0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-Paharpur          0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-STG               0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-TAN               0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                 EXB-Wires & Fab.      0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94        GESCO                 1.54   13.05    0.00    9.91      1.54   13.05    0.00    9.91
1986/93/94/95        India Equipment       0.65    0.77    0.00    1.60      0.65    0.77    0.00    1.60
1987                 Hindustan            10.80    0.00    0.00    0.00     10.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93        Titan Watches         6.08    1.03    0.00    0.00      6.08    1.03    0.00    0.00
1988/94              GKN Invel             0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00
1988/90/92           Keltron               0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00
1989                 AEC                  17.53    0.00    0.00    0.00     17.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91              Gujarat State        17.81    0.00    0.00    0.00     17.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95             JSB India              0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94           Tata Electric       104.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    104.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 UCAL                  0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00
1990/92              CESC                 51.71    0.00    0.00   67.00     51.71    0.00    0.00   30.00
1990                 HOEL                  0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990/94             ICICI-IFGL             0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00
1990/95             ICICI-SPIC Fine        0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94           IL& FS               28.50    3.11    1.81   10.00     28.50    3.11    1.81   10.00
1990                 TDICI-VECAUS II       0.00    1.94    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.94    0.00    0.00
1991                 Block KG-OS-IV        0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 BSES                 50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/93              Triveni               0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1991/96              VARUJN               14.42    1.35    0.00    6.00     14.42    1.35    0.00    6.00
1992/93              Arvind Mills          0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00      0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00
1992/95              Creditcapital VF      0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00
1992                 Indus VC MgtCo        0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00



-33-
Schedule C
Page 4 of 4
Committed                         Disbursed
I                             I                                  I
IFC                               IFC
FYApproval           Company              Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic        Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                 Indus VCF             0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1992                 Info Tech Fund        0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1992/94              Nippon Denro         61.43    5.77    0.00   60.00     31.43    5.77    0.00    0.00
1992/96              NICCO-UCO             2.25    0.37    0.00    0.00      2.25    0.37    0.00    0.00
1992                 SKF Bearings          7.66    0.00    0.00    0.00      7.66    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96          Indo Rama             23.44   11.98    0.00    9.38     23.44   11.98    0.00    9.38
1993                 20TH Century          1.09    0.80    0.00    7.11      1.09    0.80    0.00    7.11
1994                 Centurion Growth      0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00      0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1994                 Chowgule             15.00    4.58    0.00   27.00      0.00    4.58    0.00    0.00
1994                 Crdcap Asset Mgt      0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994                 DLF Cement           15.34    0.00    0.00   17.00     15.34    0.00    0.00   17.00
1994                 Global Trust          0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00      0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00
1994                 Gujarat Ambuja        0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00      0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00
1994                 GVK                  40.00    8.30    0.00    0.00      0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00
1994                 Taurus Starshare      0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00      0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00
1994                 TCAMC                 0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1995                 Centurion Bank        0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00      0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00
1995                 EXIMBANK             25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 ISIC                  0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1995                 Prism Cement         15.00    5.02    0.00   15.00     12.50    5.02    0.00   12.50
1995                 Rain Calcining       19.25    5.40    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.72    0.00    0.00
1995                 RPG Communicat        0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Sara Fund             0.00    7.04    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00
1995                 SRF Finance          15.00    5.00    0.00    0.00     15.00    4.39    0.00    0.00
1996                 CVF Oil Gas-AL        8.00    8.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 India Direct Fnd      0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00
1996                 Indus II              0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Indus Mauritius       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Moser Baer            5.70    0.60    0.00    0.00      5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 United Riceland      10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:    661.41  187.29    1.81  234.67    527.66  151.77    1.81  108.17
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity  Quasi      Partic
1994                 NEYVELI POWER                30.00   18.00    0.00    150.00
1994                 NIPPON DENRO ISP             0.00    6.00    0.00     0.00
1995                 IB VALLEY POWER             50.00   20.00    0.00     0.00
1995                 SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE             0.00    0.86    0.00      0.00
1996                 CESC II -BLINC               0.00    0.00    0.00     37.00
1996                 DEV CREDIT BANK              0.00    1.89    0.00     0.00
1996                 TARUN SHIPPING               0.00    0.80    0.00     0.00
1997                 NIPPON EXPANSION             15.00    6.00    0.00    25.00
1997                 WIPRO                        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    105.00   53.55    0.00   212.00



-34-
India at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South    Low.
India     Asia  Income      Oevelopment diamond'
Populatbon mid-1995 (illions)                       929.4    1,243    3,188                  Lte expectancy
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                             350       350     460
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                             325.3       435    1,468
Avege annual growth, 1990-95
Popuintionr%)                                         1.8       1.9      1.8
Laborforce(%)                                         2.1       2.4      1.9    GNP                                    Gm
per                                  pnm
Moast rcxnt estimat  latest year avaible since 1989)                            capita                             enrolim
Poverty: headcount index (% of popuxtson)
Urban population (% of tot population)                 27        26      28
Life expectancy at birth (yeaws)                       62        61      63                       .
Infant mortaity (per 1,000 #lve bilts)                 68        73      68
Chid mainutntion (% of childrdn under S)               63        62      38                Access to safe water
Arss to safe water (r of popuLtabon)                   ..        70      66
illiteracy (% ofpopidabon ago 15.)                     48       51       35
Groas primsry enroilment (% of school-ae population)  102        98     105         I-ndia
Male                                                113       110     112   1    -Low-income goup
Femals                                               91        87      98   !
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994    1995      Economic ratios
GOP (biNlons USS)                           91.0    214.3     301.2   328.2
Gross domestic investrnmntGDP               20.8     23.9      23.2    24.2               Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor servicestGOP  6.2     6.0      11.3    12.4   |
G-m  domestic savinga/GDP                   20.4    20.8       21.5    22.1
Gms national savingsaGDP                    20.8     21.1      22.3    22.6                        T
CtAent account balancelGDP                  40.1     -2.8       -1.0    -1.7     Savings                     Investment
interest paymentstGDP                        0.3      0.6       1.5      1.4     Sa4-n
Totl debtVGDP                               15.1     19.1      32.9    30.2
Total debt servicketxporta                  13.1     22.7      26.9    25.1
Presnt value of debt/GOP                       ..      ..      23.4
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    176.7        ..                  Indebtedness
197-84  19S5-95     1994      1995  1996-04
(averge annual growth)                                                              -India
GDP(factorcost)                     4.0      5.1      6.3       7.0      6.2        -Low-income group
GNP per capita                      1.7      3.1      6.1       5.7      4.7
Exports ofgoodsandnfs-             11.5    11.1      18.0      19.7    11.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1994    199_
(% of GOP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and nvestmont (%)
Agriclature                                 40.5    33.0       31.1    29.8    20
Industry                                    23.7    28.1       28.0    29.1  l 
Manufacuring                               16.7     17.9      17.4    18.2
Swvcs                                       35.8    38.8       40.9    41.1              so  \       24 ff
Privte conaumption                          70.2    68.1       68.2    67.8     . I
Gwwragovemmentconsumption                    9.4     11.1      10.3    10.3
Imports of goods and non-factor services     6.6      9.1      13.0    14.6                   -    t01    -GOP
197544  1985-95      1994    1995
(saVeage snnual growth)                                                          Grwth rtes of exprts end Imports 4%)
Agrtaunure                                   2.4      3.6       4.9      2.4      o
Industry                                     5.2      5.9       8.3    11.7       o_
Manufacturing                               5.4      5.8       9.0    12.2    20
Services                                     4.7      5.7       6.0      7.0    10
Prlva consumption                            4.4      4.7       5.0      6.0    .10 .    oo                      50   0f
Gerl govemment consumption                   6.2      4.2       3.0      7.6    .20
Grou domestkinvestment                       3.7      5.1      19.8    12.3      -
Impots o goods and non-factor urvices-      13.3     10.3      3.4.0    21.5
Graes natIonel product                       4.0      6.2       6.5      7.5                       E
Not: 1995 data we prliminary esti0ales.
' The dIamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) comped wIh its incomegroup aveag. nf dats e missing, the diaond wiN
be hcompee.
- Doawr Growth Rates.



-35-
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1994    1995    Inflation(%)
Domestic pnees
(% csange)                                                                      '5
Consumer pnces                               5.7      5.5      10.2    10.2      o
lmpiicit GDP deflator                       -1.5      7.6      11.1      8.0
Government finance
(% of GOP)
Currentrevenue                                       23.5      21.2    21.4             go    p      n      93    2     9s
Current budget balance                                2.2       0.2    -1.0                -GDPdef. -CP1
Overall surplus/dertczt                             -10.4       -9.0   -10.3
TRADE
1975    1985       1994    1995      Expout and Import levels (mill US$)
(millions USS)
Total expons (tob)                             -   9,463    26.857   32.430    40.0
Tea                                                 511       311      298
Iron                                                473       413      464     30000
Manufactures                                      5,639    21.088   25,779
Total imports (cif)                           .. 17,298    31.672   39.445    02
Food132                                                      146      211F
Fuel and energy                              .. 4,054        5.928    7.537     05
Capital goods                                      3.503     6,366    7,203
Expol prnce index (1987=100)                           80       118      121            s   9so  91  92  93  54  95
Impon pnce index (1987=100)                   ..       96       121      128
Terms of trade (1987-100)                      ..      83        98       95                     Expors  imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994    1998
(milfions USs)                                                                   Currrrnt account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor servieas   5,650   12,773    34.141   40,862      _                       ' I
Imports of goods and non-facor sevices     5,990   19,422    39,450   47,944        8;           __3 2  '1 Q9-      ss
Resource balance                            -340   -6.649    -5.309   -7,083    *1 +
Net factor income                           -191   -1,553    -3,905   -4,487
Net current transfers                        470    2.207     6.200    6,150      I 
Curnent account balance,
before official transfers                  -61   -5,995    -3,014   -5,419    -3
Financing items (net)                        636    6.807     9,872    3.471
Changes in net reserves                     -575    -812    -6,858    1,948   .41
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)        2,064    9,730    24,079   21,930
Conversion rate (local4USS)                  8.7    12.2       31.4    32.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1994    1935
(minions USS)                                                                    Cmposlation of total debt. 1994 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      13,708   40.971    98.990
IBRO                                       436    2.396    11,120
IDA                                      2,809    9,750    17.868                               G      A
Totaidebt service                            522    3,534    10,516                              5059  11120
IBRO                                        89      313     1,597
IDA                                         24     124        315                     Fc F      \
Composition of net resource flows                                                            I    _ L 
OffiWalgrants                              511     450        612        .                                  C
Offidal creditors                        1,260    1,424       976                           \             4312
Private creditors                           83    2,276       149                                        2
Foreign dired investment                    85      106       620       E.289
Portfolio equity                             0        0     4,729                                31067
Word Bank program
Commitments                                917    2,882     2,066       A.        IBRD                      E - Biletwc
Disbursements                              531    1,375     1,708        ,,     B IDA    0- Oev miSaler     F. e
Principalrepayments                         63      157     1.021              C-SMF                        G-Shorutwm
Net lows                                   467    1,218       687
Interest payments                           50     280        892
Nei transfers                              417     938       -205
SA2CI and Intemational Economics Deprment                                                                         10128196



I






IMAGING
R-pport No: 9       7007 IN
Ty pe; A
TAIl



