Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4114 IN
                               Loan Agreement
   (States' Road Infrastructure Development Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                                   INDIA
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated January 15, 1997
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4114 IN
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1997, between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modification of Section 6.03 set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
Page  2
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right
          of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
          shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the
          Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any
          time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the
          Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required
          to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank deter-
          mines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of
          the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent
          practices were engaged in by representatives of the
          Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the
          procurement or the execution of such contract, without
          the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action
          satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and
          establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of
          such contract which would otherwise have been eligible
          for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d)
          at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement
          of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of
          the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth
          or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes
          the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
          which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
          out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the
          Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwith-
          drawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have
          received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section
          6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
          may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, ter-
          minate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
          with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such
          notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "DEA" means the Department of Economic Affairs within the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (b)  "Participating State" means any State or Union Territory
of the Borrower which has entered into a Participation Agreement
with the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Participation Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and any Participating State, satisfactory to
the Bank, for purposes of enabling such Participating State to
participate in the carrying out of the Project and defining the
rights and obligations of the Borrower and each such Participating
State, all in accordance with the terms and conditions described
or referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (e)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, starting
April 1 and ending March 31 of each year.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to fifty-one million five hundred thousand dollars
($51,500,000).
     Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
Page  3
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of
India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
               in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Participation
Agreement with each Participating State for the purposes of enabling
such Participating State to participate in the carrying out of the
Project under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth or
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Partici-
pation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank, comply with its obligations under this
Agreement, and accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any Participation Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the
continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
Page  5
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts,
               orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any Participation Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Bank.
     (b)  Any Participating State shall have failed to perform any of
the obligations under its Participation Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any Participating State will be able to
perform its obligations under its Participation Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the
events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                               Termination
     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
Page  6
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                 Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                  953-31-66175 FINE IN
               New Delhi                 953-31-61430 FINE IN
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Robert Drysdale
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
Page  7
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             3,800,000          90%
(2)  Equipment               1,000,000          100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures,
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items procured
                                                locally
(3)  Consultants'           46,700,000          100%
     services and
     training
                            __________
     TOTAL                  51,500,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
      (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made in
respect of Category 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after July 1, 1996; and
     (b)  in respect of expenditures made by any Participating State,
unless and until the Bank has notified the Borrower that the
Participation Agreement in respect of such Participating State is
acceptable to the Bank.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts costing less than the equivalent of:
     (a)  $50,000 for goods;
     (b)  $200,000 for civil works;
     (c)  $100,000 for the services of consulting firms; and
     (d)  $50,000 for the services of individual consultants, all
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
Page  8
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Participating
States in the preparation of high priority road investments and to
promote the carrying out of policy reforms by the Participating
States in the provision, financing and maintenance of road infra-
structure.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Project Preparation and Implementation Support
1.   Carrying out techno-economic feasibility studies, design and
engineering, environmental and social impact studies, preparation
of procurement documents for proposed road infrastructure invest-
ments in Participating States.
2.   Improving the project engineering, management and implementation
capacities and resources of the roads authorities and the sector in
the Participating States.
3.   Conducting workshops and carrying out training, pilot studies,
demonstration projects and/or programs through, inter alia, the
provision of consultants' services and facilities.
Part B:   Policy Support and Institutional Development
     Development and implementation of key road sector reform measures
aimed at institutional strengthening and capacity-building in the
Participating States through, inter alia, training, study visits and
provision of consultants' services.
Part C:   Project Management
     Strengthening DEA with the management of its essential resources
for the implementation of the Project, through, inter alia, the
provision of consultants' services and equipment.
                                *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in Dollars)*
June 15, 2002                                   1,080,000
December 15, 2002                               1,115,000
June 15, 2003                                   1,150,000
December 15, 2003                               1,185,000
June 15, 2004                                   1,220,000
December 15, 2004                               1,255,000
June 15, 2005                                   1,295,000
December 15, 2005                               1,330,000
June 15, 2006                                   1,370,000
December 15, 2006                               1,410,000
June 15, 2007                                   1,455,000
December 15, 2007                               1,500,000
June 15, 2008                                   1,545,000
December 15, 2008                               1,590,000
June 15, 2009                                   1,635,000
December 15, 2009                               1,685,000
June 15, 2010                                   1,735,000
December 15, 2010                               1,790,000
June 15, 2011                                   1,845,000
December 15, 2011                               1,900,000
June 15, 2012                                   1,955,000
December 15, 2012                               2,015,000
Page  9
June 15, 2013                                   2,075,000
December 15, 2013                               2,135,000
June 15, 2014                                   2,200,000
December 15, 2014                               2,265,000
June 15, 2015                                   2,335,000
December 15, 2015                               2,405,000
June 15, 2016                                   2,475,000
December 15, 2016                               2,550,000
_________________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
   repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
   Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Prequalification
     Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
          contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Civil works estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent
per Participating State, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent per
Participating State, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project,
in respect of each Participating State, shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of
said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, and each contract for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall appoint, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, by April 30, 1997 and
thereafter employ consultants to provide assistance to DEA in the
coordination of the Project and in the review of its implementation in
accordance with supervision plans acceptable to the Bank.
2.   The Borrower shall, by December 15, 1998 and every December 15
thereafter:
     (a)  carry out annual reviews of the allocation of funds under
the Project among the Participating States; and
     (b)  make adjustments of the funds for each succeeding year of
the Project taking into account disbursement performance and the
Page  11
documented needs of each Participating State, as determined by the
Borrower.
3.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1998, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period pre-
ceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommenda-
tions of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                          Participation Agreement
                   (Procedures, Terms and Conditions, and
                        Implementation Arrangements)
1.   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the
Participating States in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
2.   Prior to entering into a Participation Agreement with the Borrower,
a Participating State shall have delivered to the Borrower a letter:
(i) indicating that it will take decisions, satisfactory to the Borrower,
on policy-based reforms in key institutional and financing aspects of
its road sector; and (ii) advising the Borrower of such State's
acceptance of a project identification and preparation framework (PIPF),
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, as the model framework for any
Technical Assistance supported project preparations, such PIPF outlining
the agreed strategic areas, the approach to project identification and
essential techno-economic, environmental, social, institutional and
procurement preparations. Upon entering into a Participation Agreement,
the provisions of said letter and PIPF shall be included therein and
become an integral part thereof.
3.   Each Participation Agreement shall include provisions whereby:
     (a)  Each Participating State shall undertake to establish,
maintain and operate an Empowered/Steering Committee for the direction
and monitoring of all aspects of reform implementation and project
preparation activities carried out under the Project.
     (b)  Each Participating State shall declare its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its part of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for its part of the Project.
     (c)  Each Participating State shall undertake that, unless the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     (d)  Each Participating State shall undertake to carry out the
Page  12
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions in respect of such State's Partici-
pation Agreement.
     (e)  Each Participating State shall undertake to, at the request
of the Borrower, exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank, with
regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under the respective Participation Agreement, and other
matters related to the purposes of the loan.
     (f)  Each Participating State shall undertake to promptly inform
the Borrower and the Bank of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by such Participating State of its obligations under the Participation
Agreement.
     (g)  Each Participating State shall undertake to: (i) maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of its part of the Project of the departments or agencies of
such State responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof; and (ii) have its records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Borrower; and furnish to the Borrower, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such fiscal year, the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall
reasonably request, including such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Borrower shall from
time to time reasonably request.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 3
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $3,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   (a)  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
     (b)  Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount to or less than the equivalent
of $1,000,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account. The
Bank may from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the
threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
Page  13
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
Page  14
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
