Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18553-HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
[N THE AMOUNT OF US$101 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
TIHE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
December 8, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Countr' Unit for Albania and Croatia
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/07/98)
Currency Unit = HRK
HRKI = US$0.16
US$1 = HRK6.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECU          European Currency Unit
EFSAL        Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EMU          Electric Multiple Unit
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GPN          General Procurement Notice
HZ           Hrvatske Zeljeznice (Croatian Railway)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ISA          International Standards of Auditing
MMATC        Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications
NPV          Net Present Value
SOE          Statements of Expenditure
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar
Task Team Leader: Enn Vasur



Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. PROJECT I)EVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .....................                                               ..........................2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1.  SECTOR-REI.ATED  CAS  GOAL SUIPPORTED  BY THE PROJECT ....................................................................2
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .............................................                                       .......................2
3. SECTOR ISSI.IES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES.......................................... 5
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ...................................................................6
2.  KEY  POLICY  AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS StUPPORTED  BY THE PROJECT ......................                                        ...........................6
3.  BENEFITS AND TARGET POPU LATION ..............6......................................................6
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................                                     7
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION......                                                   .        .. ............7
2. MAJOR RELATEI) PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES    .................8
3.  LESSONS LEARNED AND  REFLECTED  IN PROPOSED PROJECT DESIGN ..........................................................8
4.  INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ...................................................................8
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUJPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ..................................                                     ..................................9
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSES
1. ECONOMIC ...................................................................9
2. FINANCIAL ....................................................................10
3.  FISCAL IMPACT ....................................................................                                                                     11
4.  TECHNICAL ...................1.................................................1.                                                                       1
5.  INSTITUITIONAL ...................................................................                                                                     12
6. SOCIAL ...................................................................                                                                              12
7. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ...................................................................                                                            12
8.  PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH ................................................................... 13
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1.  SIISTAINABILITY  ...................................................................                                                                  14
2. CRITICALRISKS ................................................................... 14
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS .................................................................... 14
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1.  EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .......................................................................... 15
2.  OTHER CONDITIONS ..........................................................................                                                            15
H.  READINESS  FOR  IMPLEMENTATION   ................                                                 .......................................................... 16
L   COMPLIANCE  WITH   BANK  POLICIES ......................                                                 .................................................... 16



Annexes
Annex 1.      Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2.      Project Design Summary
Annex 3.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 4.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 6.      Financial Summary
Annex 7.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Procurement Information Summary
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 8.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.      Summary of the Environmental Assessment and Action Plan
Annex IO.    Documents in the Project File
Annex 11.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 12.    Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD-29793



Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Country Unit for Albania and Croatia
Date: 12/02198                                      Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Enn Vasur
Country Manager/Director: Amtraud Hartmann     Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 39161      Sector: Transportation       Program Objective Category: n.a.
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan          Program of Targeted Intervention:  [.1  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [XI Loan        [I Credit    I[] Guarantee       [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m equivalent): 101.02 (ECU85.4 million)
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency    [XI Single currency, specify ECU
Grace period (years): 5          [1   Standard Variable  [I  Fixed          [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 3/4 %
Service charge: n.a.
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  47.0                0.0             47.0
IBRD                                                        60.4               40.6            101.0
EBRD                                                         5.6               29.4             35.0
Total         113.0               70.0            183.0
Borrower: Republic of Croatia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Hrvatske Zeljeznice (HZ)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999      2000        2001     2002    2003
Annual     20.0       30.5        23.0    24.7     2.8
Cumulative     20.0       50.5       73.5    98.2   101.0
For Guarantees:                                 j   Partial credit    [I Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:            [    Yes              L    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 2/99    Expected closing date: 6/30/03



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project I)evelopment Objective and Key Performance Indicators (See Annex 2):
The project development objective is to modernize and restructure Hrvatske Zeljeznice (HZ) in order to
dimiiish its deficit and thlus also its financial burden on the budget while creating a company adapted to a
competitive transport market.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (( 'A,S Goal Supported by the Project fSee Annex 2):
CAS document number: 14088-HR (April 4, 1995)
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 6, 1998 (informal discussions)
The project is consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy for Croatia, as two of the
major objectives of the draft Strategy for Croatia for FY1999-2001 are to:
*  strengthen public sector management by increasing efficiency and reducing fiscal expenditures; and
*  promote infrastructure and energy development as a basis for growth.
More specifically, in the transport sector, the Bank Strategy focuses on removing important bottlenecks
while providing assistance to investment planning and institutional development. In addition, the Bank
Strategy acknowledges the fact that needs for restructuring and modernization in the infrastructure sector
are vast, and exceed the amount of private resources available at a reasonable cost in international
markets, which contribute to iustifying the Bank's involvement. The proposed project, aiming at
reducing the Croatian Railways' burden on the State Budget and increasing the efficiency of the
company, is fully in line with the Bank's Strategy.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Issues: The main issues affecting HZ have been identified and recommendations made in a study which
was carried out in 1996 and 1997 within the framework of the Bank's Highway Sector Project. The
issues identified can be summarized under four headings as follows:
(i) Physical assets: maintenance is lagging behind on about 30 percent of the main network, causing
speed  reductions, increasing  track  wear and  reducing  operational safety.    Signaling  and
telecommunications systems, although usually functioning, are old to the point of obsolescence. The
rolling stock fleet is on average over 20 years old, heavy maintenance activities have been postponed over
the last seven years, and stocks of key spare parts have been emptied. This situation has resulted in
availability ratios down to, in 1997, 50 to 65 percent for traction units, 57 percent for freight wagons and
65 percent for passenger coaches. The issue of delayed maintenance applies also to railway buildings
(especially workshops), which no longer provide minimum decent working conditions to HZ staff.
Finally, significant investments are still required for war damnage repairs.
(ii) Productivity: HZ staff productivity was about 133,000 traffic units per employee in 1996, which is
about half the staff productivity observed in 1995 in the Czech Republic and Slovenia. Freight wagon
productivity is comparable to levels observed in neighboring countries, but passenger coaches and
traction units productivity are respectively about 60 and 30 percent below the levels observed in Slovenia
in 1995. The low productivity is the result of several factors:
a dramatic drop of the traffic volume, which has decreased by about 70 and 65 percent respectively
for freight and passenger traffic, from 1990 to 1996, as a combined result of the hostilities and the
shrinking part of the railways in the transport industry. The shrinkage has been observed elsewhere in
the region where over the 1990-1996 period, freight traffic has decreased by 54 percent in Hungary,
50 percent in Romania, and 39 percent in Slovenia: Nevertheless, the decline has been more



Page 3
pronounced in Croatia, with part of the traffic, notably transit traffic rerouted through neighboring
countries. In 1997, however, freight traffic increased again by over 9 percent, with an increase in
transit traffic from 52 percent to 57 percent of the total international traffic.
*  a staff surplus which has been increasing relative to traffic losses.
*  a high proportion of uneconomic services, mostly passenger trains on the secondary network with
very low occupancy.
*  a low maintenance performance, which has decreased availability and reliability of the rolling stock
and network operational systems (such as signaling and turnouts).
(iii) Financial Performance (,See Annex 6)
a) Past and Present Financial Performance. The dissolution of the former Yugoslavia and the political
unrest in the entire region had a sharply negative effect on the demand for HZ's services. Between 1990
and 1992 the number of passenger kilometers was reduced from 3,429 million to 1,034 million, and the
number of ton kilometers from 6,535 million to 1,770 million. An additional factor is the introduction of
a market economy, which means that the potentially profitable freight traffic is operating in a climate of
hard competition. Subsequently, revenues only partially cover cash expenses and the remainder has to be
financed by the state budget. In the following analysis of the financial statements for the period 1994 -
1997 (see Annex 6) operating subsidies have been treated as revenues paid by the government to keep
unprofitable but socially important traffic operating. The result of this analysis is illustrated by the
following key ratios:
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Working Ratio (excluding Subsidies)       159%    157%    191%    188%    188%
Working Ratio (including Subsidies)       81%      81%     90%      90%     88%
Internal Cash Generation as Percent of
3 years Average Investments              111%      59%     23%    -10%    -20%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio               2.1       1.7     1.3     1.1     0.6
Operating Subsidies as % of GDP          1.26%    1.14%   1.17%   1.12%   1.07%
Current Ratio                              1.1     1.1      1.0     1.1      1.0
The main key ratios in the table above deteriorated during 1994 - 1998; the cash operating expenses as a
percentage of operating revenue (the working ratio, excluding subsidies) increased from 159 percent to
188 percent, the working ratio (including subsidies), from 81 percent to 88 percent. This deterioration is
manifested in rapidly decreasing internal cash generation and debt service coverage ratios. The net
internal cash generation available for investments has decreased so much that all investments must be
funded externally by means of loans guaranteed by the State. However, the huge state subsidies have not
fully covered the cash deficit, and the company is no longer able to fulfill all its payment obligations.
Despite the fact that supplier credits totaling US$19.7 million have been converted to medium-term loans,
accounts payable rose by 107 percent from US$43.5 million to US$90.9 million between 1994 and 1997
(to be compared to US$17.2 million if all bills had been paid on time). The accounts receivable are also
very large but have not increased to anywhere near the same extent. Short term borrowing required to
ease this situation is not available, and long term loans cannot be used for this purpose.
The large increase in the accounts payable is matched, in relative terms, by a similarly large increase in
inventories, which increased from US$29.6 million in 1994 to US$58.6 million in 1996. Despite the
serious liquidity situation, the ratio between current assets and current liabilities (the current ratio) was
only marginally affected. The considerable staff reductions in 1998 have only had a marginal effect on
HZ's operating deficit. The Ministry of Finance therefore decided to increase operating subsidies to
US$224.5 million, of which US$15.9 million was intended to reduce the accounts payable from the very
high level of 1997.



Page 4
b) Projected Financial Performance for 1999 - 2002. The financial projections have been prepared to
establish the measures required to ensure sufficient cash generation for HZ in order to service its debt and
reduce its operating subsidies. The projections, which have been carried out in close cooperation with
HZ's staff, are based on the assumptions shown in Annex 6.
The following key ratios give a summary of HZ's development during the period 1999 to 2002:
1999    2000    2001      2002
Working Ratio (excluding Subsidies)    168%     160%    152%      145%
Working Ratio (including Subsidies)    86%      83%      80%      77%
Internal Cash Generation as Percent of
3 years Average Investments           -32%      39%      64%      62%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio             1.2      1.8      2.2      1.8
Operating Subsidies as % of GDP       0.90%    0.85%    0.81%    0.77%
The restriction of operating subsidies to 0.9 percent of the GDP, in line with the recommendations of the
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL, HR-8327), puts tough demands on HZ
finances, especially during the early years of the project. In 1999, in addition to a reduction of 1400 staff
and various productivity increases, operating expenses will have to be lowered through the
implementation of the 1999-2003 business plan. By the end of the project period, these measures will
have produced a cash surplus which should be used to repay existing debt, further reduce state subsidies,
and finance a part of the investment program.
In 2000 the ongoing annual staff reductions together with planned productivity improvements and the
reduction of operating expenses will provide a turning point for the company. The working ratio is
projected to fall from 188 percent in 1997 to 145 percent in 2002, mainly as a result of direct cost
reduction and productivity improvements.
(iv) Management: HZ organization consists of strongly functional, isolated departments, in which the
hierarchical structure inhibits information flow and effective team decision making. Responsibilities and
authority are centralized with little delegation, which combined with a lack of clear and consistent
company-wide top-down objectives, targets and priorities, have reinforced the ability of individual
organizational units to set up their own narrow objectives and priorities. In addition, HZ management
information systems do not provide adequate support for business decision making.
Government Strategy: The Government of Croatia recognizes the above-mentioned issues and is
particularly concerned with the non-affordability of operating the railways the way it is presently done.
In order to remedy the situation in HZ, the Government of Croatia has developed a strategy to gradually
restructure HZ in three stages. The first stage concerned the approval of a law on Croatian Railways
which would provide for a legal framework to HZ restructuring. The second stage foresees: (i) an
increase of the share capital of HZ; (ii) partial or complete privatization of HZ subsidiaries; (iii) staff
adjustment; (iv) repair of war damage; and (v) construction of new railway infrastructure according to
economic development needs. During the third stage, HZ would be transformed into a joint-stock
company. The Law on Croatian Railways was adopted in June 1994. However, the Law included a
transitional clause related to the war, which postponed the implementation of the Law until this year,
when the Government decided that the Law will be fully applied starting on January 1, 1999.
In the meantime, a restructuring and modernization program has been prepared in collaboration with the
Bank. The program addresses the issues mentioned above and includes, over a five-year period starting in
1998, staff retrenchment, regulatory and reorganization components, as well as a minimum investment



Page 5
program. The program consists of a Development Policy Letter (see Annex 1) and an Action Plan which
define the main tasks to be carried out by the different parties involved in HZ modernization and
restructuring over the life of the project.
3. Sector Issules to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
The project will address all the issues mentioned in B.2 above, with a focus on the issues related to
productivity, financial performance and management. The project, estimated at US$183 million, and to
be implemented from 1999 to 2002, is inscribed within the program. Specifically, the project will address
the issues in the following manner:
Physical assets: supporting part of the rehabilitation activities which are fundamental to operate the main
routes and core rolling stock in acceptable conditions. These activities will allow HZ to retain its earning
capacity, and will also decrease maintenance and operating costs of the rehabilitated assets.
Productivity: contributing to increased productivity through staff retrenchment and rationalization of
operation and maintenance activities, and an increased focus on core businesses. Annual targets for staff
retrenchment have been agreed upon and annual staff retrenchment plans will be developed accordingly.
In addition, operating and maintenance standards will be gradually adjusted. Finally, HZ will focus on its
core businesses and be separated from its subsidiaries.
Financial per/ormance: the framework which will guide HZ and the Government to improve HZ
financial performance consists of: (i) a set of targets to be reached and the corresponding lists of measures
to be taken in order to reach the targets; (ii) the related Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow
Statement; and (iii) the annual and rolling five-year business plans to be prepared by HZ. The content of
the framework will be updated annually over the life of the project to adjust the assumptions made during
project preparation, and take into account results achieved by HZ. The main targets relate to the
reduction of the level of Government contribution to HZ through realistic investment levels and the
reduction of expenses.
Management: supporting the reorganization of HZ structure, its management and relations with the
Government according to market principles.  The basis for this reorganization is the set of
recommendations presented in the different studies which have been carried out in the areas of internal
processes (how to get from delivering general public services to managing a commercial business) and
human resources (e.g., introduction of a perfornance management process, adjustments to the
compensations system, and staff development programs).
The strategic choice was made in preparing this project is that the privatization of HZ could not be
conducted in an outright way, but that a gradual approach was required. This choice was taken after
having balanced the two options in light of the following facts:
*  There is an urgent need to take immediate actions to stop further deterioration of HZ financial and
operating performance.
*  Politically, a rapid and radical privatization is not acceptable whereas far reaching and gradual
changes have been widely discussed and accepted.
*  There is little prospect of private investments in HZ in its present condition.
Thus, a gradual approach, i.e. to prepare HZ for privatization by at first modernizing and restructuring it,
has been seen as the only possible way of undertaking meaningful actions to prevent a further
deterioration for HZ. The measures included in the project are estimated to result in a significant
reduction of Government's budgetary support (see sections E. 1 economic analysis, and E.3 fiscal impact).



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (S'ee Annex 3for a Detailed Description and Annex 4for a Detailed Cost
Breakdown):
Component               Category     Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financing   Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)  financing
Track renewal and maintenance    Physical           24.2       13.3      24.2      23.9
Rehabilitation of traction units and   Physical     57.8      31.6       22.8      22.6
spare parts
Conversion of freight wagons     Physical            3.0       1.6        3.0       3.0
Rehabilitation of passenger coaches  Physical       10.0       5.5       10.0       9.9
Environmental protection         Physical            1.6       0.9        1.6       1.6
Severance payment               Other               82.4      45.0       35.4      35.0
Efficiency improvement          Project              3.0       1.6        3.0       3.0
management/
institution
building
Front-end fee                               1.0       0.5       1.0       1.0
Total      183.0      100.0     101.0     100.0
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
The project aims at getting the Law on Croatian Railways implemented and improved. The application of
the Law provides for a transparent system of Government support with lower budgetary transfers and a
more efficient and competitive railway sector. The Law has to be interpreted and the related regulations
put in place. The rights and responsibilities of the different parties involved shall be clearly defined.
Terms such as losses, infrastructure expenses to be covered from the budget, and user charges shall be
precisely defined, and the methodology to determine them shall be agreed upon by the relevant
authorities, namely HZ, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications (MMATC),
and/or the Ministry of Finance. In this framework, notions such as public service contracts and railway's
budget will be made more explicit and the general form of such documents will be drafted and agreed
upon.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
The main project benefits lie in:
*  an improved financial situation for HZ, which will translate into a decreased burden on the
Government's budget, through productivity increases and focus on core businesses; and
*  beginning the transformation of HZ into a commercially viable company in a market economy.
In addition, the project will help reduce maintenance costs and derailment risks through the
modernization of HZ physical assets. The staff retrenchment component of the project will result in
higher productivity for HZ and lower labor costs. The project will also prepare HZ to meet the traffic
demand foreseen in the medium-term, by increasing HZ services reliability, productivity and quality, and
enabling HZ to provide services more adapted to the actual market requirements. Finally, the project will
contribute to better enviromnental conditions in Croatia, as modernized facilities and rolling stock are less
polluting than the present ones.
The beneficiaries of the project can be grouped in five categories: (i) the Croatian economy, as the
resources saved on the railway budget items can be redistributed to other high priority items; (ii) actual



Page 7
and potential railway users, as HZ will provide better services; (iii) HZ staff, as a better performing and
commercialized company can adequately compensate its employees; (iv) private bus companies, as the
reduction of railway passenger services will open new markets; and (v) HZ suppliers, as they will be paid
according to normal business standards.
The costs are essentially borne by two groups: (i) the Croatian economy, as the restructuring process
represents additional expenditures (including staff severance packages and unemployment compensations
for redundant staff) to be financed out of the budget over the life of the project; and (ii) HZ redundant
staff, as it is estimated that the average period to get a new job is about one year, and that not all the
redundant staff will be able to find a new job. In addition, HZ redundant staff will increase the
competition on certain specific segments of the employment market, which will result in an indirect cost
to already unemployed persons looking for ajob on those segments.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
The Loan will be to the Republic of Croatia, which will relend the proceeds of the loan to HZ, on the
basis of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with a Project Agreement between HZ and the Bank. Project
implementation will be carried out by HZ, which already has extensive experience with Bank
procurement, and submitted to annual reviews by the Bank. Procurement and disbursement arrangements
can be found in Annex 7. Within HZ, implementation will be supervised by the head of the restructuring
unit who reports directly to the management board and is responsible for: (i) monitoring restructuring
progress in relation to the Action Plan and the business plan; (ii) handling project implementation; and
(iii) ensuring information circulation between the different parties involved within HZ (e.g. financial and
infrastructure departments) and outside HZ (e.g., MMATC and MOF). The restructuring unit shall be
small, the guiding principle being that the restructuring unit head shall be empowered to ask, when
relevant, the different HZ departments to provide assistance as needed. However, when it clearly appears
that a specific task cannot be performed through existing positions, such a position should be created in
the restructuring unit.
Project monitoring will be conducted by a Project Coordinator, to be located in HZ or the MMATC. The
functions of the Project Coordinator are to: ensure preparation and distribution of periodic reports;
prepare reports required for the interim review; and ensure preparation of the Government's contribution
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Loan effectiveness is expected by mid-February 1999.
Completion of activities under the project is expected for December 31, 2002, with the proposed loan
closing six months later on June 30, 2003.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
The main project alternative which was considered refers to an outright privatization of the company,
which was rejected as explained in paragraph B.3.



Page 8
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ((:'ompleted,
Ongoing and Planned):
Sector issue                   Project           Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed proiects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Reconstruction of war damage to track,  Ongoing: Emergency      S              S
and supply of equipment            Reconstruction Project
Ongoing: Emergency          S               S
Transport and
Landmines Clearance
Project
Study for the restructuring of HZ  Ongoing: Highway             S              S
Sector Project
Other development agencies
EBRD                               Planned: EBRD will
participate in the
proposed project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Proposed Project Design:
The Bank has extensive experience of the transport sector in Croatia, both before and after independence.
The experience shows that most transport projects have achieved their physical objectives, but have had
difficulties in achieving the financial objectives, especially in the railway sector, in the pre-independence
projects.  Although usually successfully completed, economically justified and having resulted in
operational improvements, the railway projects were only partly successful in improving railway financial
performnance because of an underlying difference of view between the Government of the former
Yugoslavia and the Bank about the function of the railways (the Government viewed the railways as
serving important non-commercial functions which required continued subsidization). This aspect has
been carefully considered under this project, and the Government of Croatia has been closely involved in
the preparation of the project and its commitment to the project's objectives has been repeatedly
requested and received. In addition, two other lessons have been learned through the implementation of
transport projects in Croatia:
*  the implementing agency should be directly responsible for all implementation aspects of the project
components, including procurement and disbursements; and
* the implementation unit should be fully staffed before loan effectiveness.
These lessons have been incorporated in the project implementation structure.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
During the whole of the project preparation cycle, and in the numerous exchanges of letters between the
Bank and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport, both HZ and the Government have shown
strong commitment to the proposed project. The project documents produced during project preparation
have been reviewed and agreed to in principle by both the Government and Parliament, and have also
been extensively discussed with the trade unions and in the media. Furthermore, each preparation
mission was conditioned on the Croatian authorities taking specific actions, as identified in the Action
Plan, to demonstrate Croatia's commitment to this project. The actions taken so far on the Croatian side,
include: (i) reduction of staff by about 2,000 since January 1, 1998; (ii) reduction of uneconomic services
by 700,000 passenger train kms in the 1998-99 timetable; (iii) first organizational changes in HZ



Page 9
implemented on March 1, 1998; (iv) a resolution of 32 percent of HZ arrears; (v) a decision to fully
implement the Law on Croatian Railways as of January 1, 1999; and (vi) the creation of a working group
at the MMATC level to clarify and interpret the Law on Croatian Railways. Finally, the Croatian
authorities have, in a Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1), confirmed their commitment to HZ
modernization and restructuring, and agreed to the series of annual benchmarks to be reached over the
project implementation period, as proposed by the Bank.
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project:
The Bank's presence and support has contributed to the development of a coherent restructuring program.
The Bank has been able to provide a reasonable framework as well as adequate tools to prepare a program
which will permit the restoration of HZ financial viability with lower Government contributions. Initially
this was done by structuring the study and arranging the financing for the restructuring study. The
presence of the Bank has significantly contributed to the fact that market-oriented principles have been
accepted by the Government as the principles to be followed in the preparation of this program. The
Bank has had a strong role in the increasing quality and realism of HZ business plans, and is recognized
as the independent authority which will assess the quality of future business plans over the life of the
project. In addition, given the size of the investments required by the implementation of the program, the
proposed loan has already provided and will continue to provide a strong incentive for the Borrower to
comply with the requirements of the program. Finally, through the Bank's involvement in this program
grants from Japan and Canada in the amount of almost US$1 million for project preparation, and a
US$0.5 million grant from the Government of the Netherlands for assistance in project implementation
have been arranged as well as parallel project financing from the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) in the amount of US$35 million.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 5):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 343 million; ERR= 54% []Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [l
Other (Specify)
The economic costs and benefits of the project have been determined by comparing the economic impact
of implementing the project to a situation without the project. Two main assumptions have been made in
order to get a conservative overall economic evaluation of the project: (i) the size of HZ investment
program will be the same whether the project is implemented or not (if the project were not to be
implemented, it should in fact be expected that HZ investment program would be bigger than the
minimum program agreed upon under the project); and (ii) the clearing up of the account payables would
be taken care of, albeit later, if the project was not undertaken.
The economic benefits lie in the reduction of the total Government contribution to HZ resulting from the
implementation of the project. Costs, which have been considered in addition to the level of the total
Government contribution to HZ, relate mainly to HZ staff reduction, which results in redundancy costs
and in higher unemployment benefits to be paid by the Government. Finally, it has been assumed, in a
conservative way, that net benefits to users, which would be positive due to better service, are not taken
into account. The economic results of the project are robust. If the foreseen benefits from a reduced total
Government contribution decrease by 20 percent, the economic rate of return will still be 45 percent and
the related net present value about US$218 million. If the foreseen economic costs induced by the project
increase by 20 percent, the economic rate of return will be 43 percent and the related net present value
about US$270 million. These results are very satisfactory, especially given the conservative basis on
which they have been built.



Page 10
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$ 110.7 million; FRR= 26 %
A financial evaluation has been conducted for the different components of the project as described below.
,Staff Retrenchment: The costs of this component consist of the costs of the retrenchment and retraining
programs (based on a study carried out during the pre-appraisal mission). The benefits to HZ consist of
the savings realized by having reduced staff. The staff retrenchment component has a net present value of
US$71 million and a financial rate of return of 39 percent. Given the impact of this component on the
national economy, an economic analysis of the staff retrenchment was conducted, taking as additional
costs the unemployment benefits to be paid to the redundant staff, the loss of productivity for those
redundant staff who will not be able to reintegrate into the work force, and as additional benefits the
marginal productivity of those redundant staff who will be able to find a new job. The economic
evaluation of the staff retrenchment component yields, in the base case, an internal rate of return of 26
percent and a net present value of US$99 million. The rate of return is robust: if the foreseen value of the
benefits were to decrease by 20 percent, the rate of return will remain at 30 percent, and if costs were to
increase by 20 percent, the rate of return will still be at 32 percent.
Freight Wagons Conversion Component: The freight wagons which will be converted under the project
are presently surplus wagons, which do not generate any revenue and have negligible costs. After the
conversion, which adapts the wagons to actual market needs, the former surplus wagons will be put back
into operation. The resulting revenues and costs yield a net present value of US$4 million and a financial
rate of return of 41 percent. The rate of return is robust: if benefits decrease by 20 percent, the rate of
return falls only to 32 percent and if costs increase by 20 percent, the rate of return remains at a
satisfactory 33 percent.
I'assenger C'oaches Rehabilitation Component: The average age of the passenger coach fleet is about 20
years. The benefits have been estimated comparing the costs of rehabilitating the coaches during the life
of the project or to delaying it by about 8 years while still running the coaches and performing only the
top priority maintenance and rehabilitation tasks. In addition, the enhancement of travel conditions in the
rehabilitated coaches will allow an increase in passenger tariffs. The net present value and the financial
rate of return of this component are respectively US$10 million and 20 percent. Despite the fact that the
evaluation did not take into account potentially substantial benefits such as value of time, the project
component remains feasible with a 20 percent reduction in the estimated benefit (which reduces the rate
of return to 13 percent), and if the component costs increase by 20 percent, the rate of return will still
remain acceptable, at 14 percent.
Traction Units Rehabilitation and Soare Parts C'omponent: The main benefit of this component is the
reduction of maintenance and operating costs, between the project case where the locomotives are
rehabilitated during project implementation and without the project case where the overhaul is undertaken
later. In addition, benefits will also be generated from the increased locomotive availability and
productivity gains. This component has a base net present value of US$9 million and a financial rate of
return of 25 percent. The rate of return is robust to possible costs overruns: (i) if costs were to increase by
20 percent, the rate of return would still be 19 percent; and (ii) if benefits were 20 percent lower than
foreseen, the rate of return would still be 14 percent.
Track Rehabilitation: The benefits to be derived from the rehabilitation of Croatia's core routes are: (i)
reduced track maintenance costs; (ii) reduced rolling stock maintenance and operating costs; and (iii)
increased speed. In the case the project is not carried out, it has been assumed that track rehabilitation
activities could be delayed by 8 years, with an increase of infrastructure and rolling stock maintenance
costs during this period, an increased frequency of derailments, and speed reductions. Other benefits such
as improved human safety and reduced environmental risks have not been taken into account, given the
difficulty to quantify them. The base net present value is equal to US$20 million and the corresponding-
financial rate of return is 19 percent. The basis to compute the rate of return is sound as a 20 percent.



Page 1 1
decrease of the foreseen benefits still yields a rate of return of 17 percent, and a corresponding increase of
the costs maintains the rate of return at 16 percent.
3. Fiscal Impact:
The actual and projected difference in the total Government contribution (including operating subsidies,
infrastructure investments and severance payments) to HZ in the "with" and "without" project cases is
presented on the chart below. The assumptions on which the chart is based are: (i) both the Government
and HZ pursue rationalization and productivity increases measures beyond the life of the project; (ii) in
both cases, HZ uses all cash surplus to decrease the level of Government operating subsidies. ' It has
been estimated that the total Government contribution in the "with" project case has been around 1.27
percent of GDP in 1998, and will decrease to 0.76 percent of GDP in 2002, on the basis that all cash
surpluses generated by the "with" project case are used to reduce the total Government contribution to
HZ. In the "without" project case, the total Government contribution has been estimated to be about 1.23
percent of GDP in 1998 and 1.14 percent of GDP in 2002. The difference between the "with" and
"without" project cases becomes even more significant after 2002, as indicated on the chart.
Total Government Contribution to HZ(HRK rnilion)
25000
12500                                      *           Total Contribution
without Project
1,000
500                                                   Total Contribution
w ith Project
4. Technical:
The project's designs and specifications are to be provided by HZ, as HZ has proven to have staff with the
adequate level of skills in these fields. The designs and techniques used in track renewal and maintenance
and in the rehabilitation/conversion of rolling stock are conventional and have proven their efficiency and
reliability. The project does not provide for the introduction of any new techniques which would require
significant investments to be introduced. In addition, HZ is gradually upgrading its technical standards to
those used within the European Union.
The investment cost estimates and engineering data have been prepared by HZ in collaboration with two
independent railway engineers. However, cost estimates for rehabilitation activities are rarely accurate, as
it is difficult to foresee the exact number of the parts which need to be changed in order to complete the
rehabilitation to an acceptable level.  Thus, the project cost estimates for the track renewal and
maintenance, and for the rehabilitation/conversion of rolling stock include a physical contingency of 10
percent. Finally, given the wide range of countries which will be involved in the supply of railway
equipment and services under the project, and to take into account a certain level of price inflation over
the life of the project, the project cost estimates include a 2.4 percent p.a. price contingency.
I This assumption has been used to show the optimal impact on the total Govermment Contribution of both the "with" and
"without" project cases.



Page 12
5. Institutional:
HZ will be the executing agency. HZ has extensive experience in working with the Bank, as it has
already been and still is the executing agency for implementing the railway components of the Bank's
Emergency Reconstruction Project and the Emergency Transport and Landmines Clearance Project. Both
components have been/are being implemented in a satisfactory manner. For the purposes of project
implementation, HZ has created and staffed a Restructuring Unit, which will handle, in addition to the
restructuring process, the required procurement, disbursement and reporting processes. With respect to
the restructuring process, the task facing HZ management is quite difficult, especially given the fact that
there is no real experience in Croatia on how to proceed with the restructuring of a public enterprise and
on how to manage such an enterprise in a commercial way. However, HZ management has repeatedly
shown its commitment to the restructuring process and its will to implement such a process. In addition,
HZ management recognized that there is an acute need for advisory services in order to ensure the success
of the restructuring. Thus, technical assistance will be provided during at least the first two years of the
project, in order to advise HZ management and the Restructuring Unit in handling the company
restructuring on the basis of the studies which have been carried out on this topic during project
preparation.
6. Social:
The major social issue faced by the project is related to the staff retrenchment and services reduction
components. The project foresees the separation of about 7,000 staff (30 percent of the 1998 staff), and a
reduction in uneconomic passenger services by about 30 percent within five years. Redundant staff will
be eligible for a redundancy or an early retirement package, while the reduction of passenger services will
be replaced where there is a need, by alternate bus services. However, as this is the first time in Croatia
that such a restructuring program is undertaken, this has been widely debated within the political and
public spheres, and raised a substantial level of opposition. Eventually, after repeated internal discussions
and consultations with the Bank, the Government and Parliament have decided to back up the program
and declared to be ready to bear its social costs. Finally, within HZ, the management has maintained a
continuous dialogue with the trade unions to inform HZ staff about the program's rationale, and to discuss
the relevance of the measures proposed to mitigate the negative impacts of the program.
7. Environmental Assessment:  Environmental Category    []A   [X] B   []C
The project has been classified as belonging to category "B" for the purpose of OD4.0 1 on Environmental
Assessment, meaning that only a limited environment review was required. As the project concerns
rehabilitation, modernization and maintenance of HZ facilities and operation, negative impacts on
environment have been estimated as relatively minor, and are mainly confined to short term direct impact
during construction.  Positive impacts on the environment will result from  track renewal and
maintenance, improved signaling, decreased use of diesel powered locomotives, enhanced safety,
modernization of diesel and electric locomotives, improvement of existing and purchase of new rolling
stock, improvement to main workshops facilities and the closure of others. The related potential negative
impacts will be essentially caused by: (i) closing lines and stations, with the issues of polluted loading and
unloading areas, abandoned underground and above ground storage tanks used for hazardous chemicals,
transformers and other facilities, and waste disposal areas; (ii) works with dust emissions and noises; and
(iii) railway activities, with the general emissions of air pollution, disposal of waste (such as oil), cleaning
of tank settlements, train and station hygiene, water treatment, use of chemicals for track maintenance and
transport of hazardous materials. These negative impacts will be mitigated through the implementation of
the Environmental Action Plan prepared by HZ, reviewed by the Bank and endorsed formally by HZ
Management Board (a summary is presented in Annex 9).
The legal context for environmental protection in Croatia is relatively advanced, especially for water and
hazardous waste, but also for air pollution. For water waste, a license and polluter/payer system is in
place in Croatia, with on average quarterly monitoring of the company's waste water quality to determine
whether the pollution level is acceptable, and the price the company shall pay for pollution fees.



Page 13
Hazardous waste is collected by specialized companies. Other wastes are handled by the polluters
themselves. In the case of HZ, hazardous waste is collected and treated/disposed according to Croatian
law. HZ also makes substantial use of low-toxicity herbicides. Regarding air pollution, there are
presently no measurements being taken. However, a substantial part of the traffic volume is handled by
electric traction. It is therefore expected that emissions would not exceed levels set by law. In addition,
measurement equipment would be provided under the project.  Compliance with environmental
regulations is being monitored by HZ environment unit in collaboration with other agencies such as the
national Water Management Agency. As part of this monitoring, the unit has launched a country-wide
audit on waste handling in the railway sector. HZ environment unit is also developing an environmental
policy which aims at increasing HZ staff awareness of environmental issues and environmentally friendly
practices in the railway sector.
8. Participatory Approach [Key Stakeholders, how Involved, and what they have Influenced;if
Participatory Approach not Ulsed, I)escribe why not Applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Information Sharing:
The primary beneficiaries of the project, the Croatian people, have been involved in project preparation
and will be kept informed of project progress mainly through the media (newspapers, radio and
television).
Information Sharing/Consultation/Collaboration:
Extensive discussions have been held with the trade unions during project preparation in order to explain
the project rationale and exchange views on the solutions proposed to resolve the difficult issues facing
HZ. In addition, representatives of the trade unions are part of HZ Supervisory Board, which ensures HZ
staff involvement and contribution to any major decision affecting the company. Finally, a number of
meetings between HZ and the trade unions have been necessary in order to reduce tensions which have
occasionally resulted in strikes. Local governments have been informed of the services reduction
component of the project, and negotiations will be held with HZ during the preparation of proposals on
how to handle service reductions. These proposals will eventually be submnitted to the Government for
approval.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Information Sharing, Consultation, Collaboration:
The Ministry of Transport, as the Ministry in charge of HZ activities, the Ministry of Finance as well as
the Office for Restructuring and Economics of State Owned Enterprises have been deeply involved in the
preparation of the project through consultations and reviews. The involvement of both ministries as well
as reviews of various issues related to the project by Parliament, has been crucial to finding the balance
between what ideally should and what realistically can be done. Both ministries will participate in project
implementation, especially through the review process of the annual and rolling five-years business plan,
as these plans will determine the level of services to be provided by HZ and constitute the basic
justification for the annual budget contribution to the company. In addition, the Office for Restructuring
and Economics of State-Owned Enterprises has been involved in project definition and preparation all
along.
The Croatian Office for Employment has been mainly involved so far on an information sharing basis.
However, the Office becomes more and more involved on a collaboration basis, as it works together with
HZ to ensure that HZ redundant staff get appropriate chances to find new jobs, assisting them in their
search and providing training as necessary.



Page 14
F: Sustainability and Risks
I. .Sustainability:
The one key element in the sustainability of project benefits is the requirement for a continuous
Government and HZ commitment to HZ restructuring, even beyond the project implementation period.
The project is expected to be sustainable as: (i) it has been endorsed by the different stakeholders; (ii) the
project will allow HZ, over the years, to retain and develop its revenue generating capacity while, at the
same time, to decrease its maintenance and operation costs; (iii) the assumptions on which the project's
forecasted financial performance are based are conservative; and (iv) the Law on Railways provides for
transparent Government contributions to HZ both on the investment and operations sides.
2. Critical Risks ('reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 2):
Risk                     Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 2, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Internalization of the new HZ organizational   M        Technical assistance, seminars and
and lines of business structure                         training will be provided to HZ staff
Implementation of improvement process to be    M        Project supervision will aim at
continued beyond project                                building the necessary momentum.
Annex 2, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Efficiency of HZ management in implementing    M        HZ management will be supported
the project                                             in project implementation by
experienced consultants.
Adequate Government support to HZ in           M        Government commitment has been
implementing the project                                enhanced through the reception of a
Letter of Development Policy and
through the inclusion of the targets
referred to in the Letter as
covenants in the legal document.
Disruption of railway traffic in Croatia and in  N      As a commercial company, one of
the region                                              HZ's objectives is constant search
of new markets and risk spread.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Given the nature of the project, controversies could erupt, but despite the fact that the project has received
wide endorsement, most likely from groups with specific interest in one of the project impacts, such as
staff retrenchment, reduction of train frequencies on specific lines, changes in the compensation system,
role of the Government and the like. To mitigate this risk, the forum, created during project preparation,
including representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Transport, HZ management and the Bank, will
continue, during project implementation, to provide means to mitigate possible controversies based on the
provisions of the Letter of Development Policy. In addition, the Government has a strong incentive to
keep the restructuring on track, given the non-affordability of the railways in their situation.



Page 15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The following will be conditions for Loan effectiveness:
a) reception and satisfactory review by the Bank of the draft of the Business Plans for. 1999 and for the
period 1999-2003;
b) the submission to the Bank of the concrete actions to be taken to assist redundant staff; and
c) the submission to the Bank of the set up of the administration of the social program for redundant staff.
2. Other (Conditions:
a) The financial covenants to be reached during project implementation are:
1999 2000 2001 2002
Working Ratio (excluding operating subsidies) 175% 165% 160% 155%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                 1.0   1.3   1.3   1.3
In addition. it was agreed that the Borrower shall not, over the life of the project, undertake any railway
investments (other than those financed by the state in accordance with the Railway Law) estimated to cost
US$5,000,000 or more, unless the economic and financial rates of return for such investment estimated on
the basis of analyses, carried out in accordance with methodologies satisfactory to the Bank, are each
greater than 12 percent.
b) The operational targets to be reached during project implementation are summarized in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 1).
Review
The implementation of the project will be submitted to annual reviews which will, inter alia, provide for:
(i) the review of the annual and rolling five-years plans prepared by HZ for the next year; (ii) the review
of the Action Plan; and (iii) the adjustment of the financial and operational targets of the Letter of
Development Policy and the financial forecasts presented in Annex 6, in particular, in light of traffic
developments.
Accounts/Audits:
The project accounting will be set up as a stand-.4lone system until a new company-wide computerized
system is in place. In addition, agreement has been reached with HZ on the design of: (i) the chart of
accounts and project ledger to classify and record project expenditures; and (ii) a fixed asset register to
identify and control equipment purchased under the project. Finally, HZ audit will have to be carried out
in accordance with International Standards of Auditing (ISA), by an international audit company, each
year over the life of the project.  For 1997, HZ's financial statements have been audited by an
international auditor.
Reporting:
*  Quarterly update of the financial management reports including the financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank not later than 30 days after each quarter's closing;
*  The task of preparing the financial management reports will be assigned specifically to staff who will
be in charge of the project reporting;



Page 16
* Audited financial statements together with the audit report will be submitted to the Bank not later
than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year; and
* Implementation progress reports will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, not later than 30
days after each quarter's closing.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are being prepared and expected to
be completed by loan effectiveness.
[XI The procurement documents for the first year's activities are being prepared and expected to be
completed by loan effectiveness.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
/    1       17
y.sk Teamv    er: Enn Vasur
Sector Di  r       o Halperin
Acting Country D   ct               ortman              Date



Annex I
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernation and Restructuring Project
Letter of Development Policy
1. The Govrenmenrs program (the Program) aims at modernizing and restructuing the
Croatian Railways (HZ) to diminish HZ defic3t and thus also HZ financial burden on the budget
and create a company which can survive in a copetitive transport market, and to request the
Internationaf Bank for Restruction and Development (IBR9) to support the Railway
Modernizaton and Restructuring Project with a loan of about US$ 1 00 million equnialent
2. Over the last two years, we have had an excellent co-operation with IBRD in seting up and
discussing the Program. In additon the Republic of Croatia and HZ feel fully committed to the
Program, as shown by the following actions which have already been undertaken:
a  the different exchanges of letters between our Govrenment and IBRO managament and
*  the actions taken so far on the Croatian side, including (I reduction of staf by about 1,700
since January 1, 1998; cin) reduction of services by 700, 000 passenger tain krns in the
1 998-99 timetable: (iii) HZ first organizational changes implemented on March 1, 1998; (iv)
resolution of 32% of HZ arrears: (v) decision of fully implement the Law on Croatian
Railways as of January 1, 1999; and (vi) creation of a working group on the Ministry of
Transport level to ciarfy and interpret the Law on Croatian Railways.
3.We recognize that transforming HZ into a commercially  viable company ina a market
economy is an excercise recuiring a high and sustained level of commitmnet and energy both
on the side of the Govemmnet of the Republic of Croatia and the on the side of HZ We also
Ully realize that the proposed Program  consttutes oniy the first step toward a fully
restructured HZ, which aims at eventually privatizing HZ as stipulated in the preamble of the
Law on Croatian Raliways. Finally, we are aware that the Law on Croatan Railways , will be
an evolving document wnich will be adjusted to take into account the developments in Europe
in this fieic.
4: HZ is presenfly in a very difficult financial sttuation, and HZs losses are a problem for the
coutnry. For 1999, HZ working ratio (excluding operating subsidies) is estimated at about
168%, and the debt servica coverage ratio at 1.2. In additon, the operational subsidy as a
percentage of GOP is expected to be equal to 0,9%.
a It is the Govemments policy, in a first phase, to imDrove the situation of HZ by restructuring
and modernizing it The hasis for this is the Program which has been elaborated by the
Croatian authorities concerned with the assistance of [BRD on the basis of the main principles
embodied in the Low on Croatian Railways. The restrucutring requires several objectives to
be reached, including the main financial ones, a forecast of which is provided in the table
below. These forecasts will be reviewed and adjusted as part of the preparation of HZ anual
business plan, and we will, each year over the life of the Project discuss wit and take into
accounts the views of IBRD regarding the annual business plan submiftting it to the
Govemment.
|  1 998  1  1999     2000  | 2001       2002
Worldng ratio in % (excduaing operational  188  l68       1601      152      146
subsides)                                                                    1
Working ratio in % (including operational  881   867                          77
subsides)
Operational subsidies in % of GDP     1.071     0.30     0.851    0.81    0.77
Debt service coverage ratio            0.6j      1.2j     1.Sl      2.2i      1.8
In addition to the Govemrnment budget financing of the operational subsidies, the Government
will also particpate in the financing of staf retrenchment, war damage repair and infrastructure
expenditures, as agreed upon with the World Bank, in a totel amount of HRK 1,896 million
over the 1998-2002 period. This amount represents, given the present financial forecsts and



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
project targets, the level of Government contributions which allows for a resonable
compromise between acceptable financial results and the maintenance of the main network
and related operabons on an acceptable level over the 1998-2002 period. As financial
forecasts and project targets will be updated as part of the project annual review to be carried
out in accordance with this paragraph, so will the level of Govemment contributions. Any
expenditure proposed in additon to what has been foreseen will be authorized only if it can be
demonstzated that it is financially and economically justified, and that there is an appropriate
source of financing available.
6. We are well aware that in order to meet the above-mentioned forecasts, a series of
mpasures will have to be taken in order to improve HZ efficiency. Among these measures, we
will pay particuiar attenton to the indicators and their corresponding minimum targeted values,
as described below, to monitor progress realized by HZ during the implementation of the
restructuring process.
I  19981  1 9919 202001 20011 2   Total 
Staff re2rencnmer2t (number of stS _           222-f  13991 1400f  1246   7001  69731
In0perc14tageoftotalstaffas0of 12J317           9                                 30.31
Staff productMy (in TU per empyee_O)       | It        163| 1801   198|  217    n.e.
Reduction of uneconomic passenger servics (train |   0,71    1.   1,41 18    1,21   X,0
kms. million)                              l                I                  I
In percentage of toal passenger services as of    I   3.5l   5,5   7,01   8.01   6,0   30.0
1z231/96                                       I  1                              _
Nurntber of lems of rail lines an which decision fromn   144    151  1501   ,00    1001  65C
the Council of Ministers is required 1J
In percentage of total network leng as of 2131/97  5,31    5,7  5.5    3.71   3.7   24.C
11; Indcudes: (D Unes proposed for dosure and (T) lines cn which the opertional dsofit is proposed to be
compensated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is noted that lines proposed for close may be not be
dosed if an adequate level of compensadon for opwationaL defict can be agred upon.
7. Finally, on the side of the Government of Croatia, we will: Oi define with HZ which are HZ
non-core businesses, and prepare a proposal of the privatization implementation schedule of
these non-core businesses by March 1, 1999; Cii) by March 1, 1 999, work out with RZ a set of
administrative mesures in order to get a smocth implementation of the Law on Croatian
Railways; and (ii) have HZ submit to Government, by March 1, 1999, for 1999, the specified
lines recommended for closure and the rines on which operational deficit is proposed to be
compensated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, with the first Public Service Contract
ep s n Govemment and HZ expected to be in force during 2000.
sir   ely,
jp   Enslp ;Skegro, Minister
0  iALMIry        ance
Zeljko Luzvec, Minister
Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transportation and Communications
Date:                    o4l, m



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modemization and Restructuring Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance      Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
To contain losses and     *  Restructuring of the   *  Economic and sector    *  Aiming at efficient and
improve governance of         main state-owned        reports.                  fiscally sustainable
state-owned enterprises (i.e.  enterprises.                                     provision of public goods
large public enterprises and   *  Privatization of non-                         and services will allow
former socially-owned         core assets.                                      for: (i) increased private
enterprises).             .  Reduction of the                                   sector participation, in the
Government                                        context of an enabling
contributions.                                    business environment;
and (ii) budget resources
reallocations, which will
contribute to poverty
alleviation under an
efficient social sector
policy regime.
Project Development       Outcome:                Outcome:                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                *  Increased net        *  Annual review of        *  Continued Government
To diminish HZ burden on      revenue.                annual and five-year      support to state-owned
the Government budget     *  Increased cost           rolling business plans.   enterprises restructuring
while creating a competitive  recovery.            *  Review of annual          program.
railway company.                                      audited financial      *  Successful
statements.              implementation of the
ongoing Bank's EFSAL,
Impact:                Impact:                       TAL I and of the planned
.  Decreased            *  Economic and sector       TAL II.
Government             reports.
contribution to HZ.
*  Profit generation.



Arnex 2
Page 2 of 2
Narrative Summary         Key Performance      Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Outputs:                  The indicators below are                          (Outputs to Objective)
The project outputs result    minima to be complied
from the combined effects    with by 2002, and are
of the implementation of  subject to adjustments as
one or more of the different  part of the annual project
project components. The    reviews.
main outputs are:
*  Decreased working ratio  *  Working ratio      *  Supervision mission     *  Intemalization of the new
.  Increased debt service     (excluding operating    reports.                  HZ organizational and
coverage ratio            subsidies) to        *  Review of quarterly       lines of business
.  Increased staff            decrease to 155         financial reports.        structure.
productivity              percent.             *  Reports on annual and   *  Implementation of
.  Decreased passenger    .  Debt service            five-year rolling          improvement process to
service levels            coverage to increase    business plans review.     be continued beyond
to 1.3                                            project.
* Staff productivity to
increase to 217,000
Traffic Units per
employee
* Passenger services to
be reduced by 6
millions train kms.
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                          (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 3    component)
for project description)
1. Goods                                          *  Project progress and    *  Efficiency of H-Z
*  Track renewal and      US$ 24.2 million            disbursement reports.     management in
maintenance                                                                 implementing the project.
.  Rehabilitation of      US$ 57.8 million                                   *  Adequate Government
traction units and spare                                                     support to HZ to
parts                                                                        implement the projiect.
*  Conversion of freight    US$ 3.0 million                                  *  Disruption of railway
wagons                                                                       traffic in Croatia and in
.  Rehabilitation of      US$ 10.0 million                                      the region.
passenger coaches
*  Environment protection   US$ 1.6 million
2. Severance payment      US$ 82.4 million
3. Efficiency improvement US$ 3.0 million



Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$24.2million (total cost of component)
Track Renewal and Maintenance of C'ore Routes: only some 15-20 percent of the track maintenance required has
been undertaken in recent years. For example only 84 km of line was renewed between 1991 and June 1997 because
of financial constraints. As a result train speeds have been reduced on track sections overdue for renewal, and safety
is a concern, at the same time operating and maintenance costs have increased, along with the increase in the number
of track failures and related emergency repairs. The project proposes a minimum level of track renewal of the " core "
routes, which if not undertaken, will jeopardize HZ's efforts to improve its financial and commercial performance, as
a worsening track condition will result in rerouting of part or all of the existing profitable transit traffic and will
strongly diminish the prospects of new traffic. Furthermore, the condition and performance of HZ track maintenance
equipment has decreased over the past years due to lack of funds. This issue, if not addressed promptly, will result in
increasing maintenance costs. The project thus includes the provision of: (i) 25,000 tons of rails, (ii) baseplates and
ring pads; (iii) components for the rehabilitation of 200 turnouts, and (iv) 3 track maintenance cars, a butt-welding
machine and miscellaneous equipment.
Project Component 2 - US$57.8million (total cost of component)
Rehabilitation of Traction Units and Spare Parts: the electric and diesel locomotive fleets are old by international
standards. Most are over 25 years old, including the whole of the main line diesel fleet. Low availability and
reliability of traction units is seriously affecting the performance of freight traffic which directly affects HZ revenue,
and induces high maintenance and operating costs. In addition, there is currently a daily shortfall against traffic
requirements of some 5 - 10 locomotives. The project thus provides for rehabilitation and modernization of 40
locomotives (30 diesel main line and 10 electric) and provision of additional spare parts (which will allow heavy
repairs on 50 additional main line diesel locomotives and daily maintenance of the 80 rehabilitated diesel locomotives
over a period of 5 years), as well as for the modernization of 6 Electric Multiple Units (EMUs). The project will
allow daily availability of the rehabilitated traction units to reach at least 80 percent.
Project Component 3 - US$3.Omillion (total cost of component)
Conversion of Freight Wagons: the freight wagon fleet is too large for current requirements but there is a lack of
suitable wagons. The project provides for the conversion of 100 standard covered 2 axle wagons to provide full side-
access and strengthened floors for pallets. The conversion of these wagons will allow HZ to increase its presence on
revenue generating segments of the freight transport market.
Project Component 4 - US$ S0.Omillion (total cost of component)
Rehabilitation of Passenger Coaches: there is currently a daily shortfall of some 15 - 20 coaches against traffic
requirements. Fifty-one percent of the fleet is more than 20 years old. In order to service the passenger traffic
demand on the main routes at an acceptable quality standard and costs, existing coaches need to at least be
rehabilitated. The project includes provision for rehabilitation and modernization of 120 coaches for international and
inter-regional services. This rehabilitation will preserve the availability of passenger cars for service through overhaul
of these coaches to ensure that they remain serviceable for the years to come, with lower maintenance costs and
improved comfort, which will provide the basis for a passenger tariff increase.



Atnex 3
Page 2 of 4
Project Component 5 - US$1.6million (total cost of component)
Environment Protection: Croatia is relatively advanced in terms of laws and regulations adopted in the environmental
protection sector. However, their implementation, as is the case in many countries, is progressing slowly, mainly
because of lack of financing. The project will: (i) mitigate potential negative impacts on the environment resulting
directly from program activities (such as closure of workshops, and fueling stations); and (ii) modernize, up to
adopted environmental standards, those HZ facilities and activities, which are considered as having the worst effects
on the environment. Modernization includes rolling stock rehabilitation (under the investment component of the
prograrn), improved water pre-treatment and collection to reduce used water pollution, supply of oil foils, constiuction
of recycling yards and depots for fuel supply.
Project Component 6 - US$82.4million (total cost of component)
,S'everance Payment: the objective of this component is to increase HZ operational productivity, by matching the
number of staff assigned to a specific activity to the actual demand. The increase of operational productivity requires
inter alia rationalization of operation and maintenance activities, redefined operational procedures and concentration
of structures, and a decrease of the network size, of the number of maintenance/operation districts, and of rolling
stock facilities. HZ will design staff retrenchment plans on an annual basis, in function of the organizational changes
foreseen for a specific year. As rationalization measures and identification of redundant staff are essential preparatory
activities in the preparation of HZ budget, it is recommended that such decisions take place in the third quarter of a
given year, as part of the business plan to be presented by HZ to the Government and Parliament. Besides, given the
minimum legal termination period, which varies in HZ's case, between four and six months, it has been proposed that,
each year, redundant staff should be notified before the end of the first quarter. The 1997 Traffic Unit per employee
ratio in HZ equals 138,000, which compares to, in 1995, 356,000 in Slovenia, and 523,000 in Portugal, two railways
having the same general characteristics as the Croatian railway. In addition, the Government of Croatia agreed, in the
EFSAL framework, that State operating subsidies to HZ should not exceed 0.9 percent of GDP in 1998 and should, in
the following years, be continuously decreasing. Based on the likely developments of traffic and economics, it has
been agreed that HZ staff will be reduced to at least 16,000 in 2002.
As of end October 1997, HZ counted 22,999 staff, and an additional 3,121 staff in its subsidiaries. HZ managrement
engaged itself to reduce the number of staff by 1,228 before December 31, 1997. As of end-October 1998, 1,687 staff
were separated from HZ, 291 additional staff have been identified as redundant, and 250 staff still remained to be
identified to complete the 1998 part of the retrenchment program. The breakdown of the 1,687 staff already laid off
2
as part of the 1998 program is as follows: (i) 374 disabled people; (ii) 809 staff placed in three new subsidiaries; and
(iii) 504 staff who opted for the HZ retirement incentive program. For the following years, the figures presented in
Table 2 in the staff retrenchment implementation schedule have been proposed.
2 The creation of these subsidiaries is to be seen as HZ's first step in detaching itself from non-core business, which are separated from the
mother company, and then considered for privatization.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Table 2: Staff Retrenchment Implementation Schedule
1998        1999        2000         2001        2002
Number of       22,973      20,745       19,346       17,946      16,700
Staff on
January 31
Staff           2,228        1,399       1,400        1,246        700
Reduction
Number of       20,745       19,346      17,946      16,700       16,000
Staff on
December 31
Two specific components have been designed as part of the Staff Retrenchment Program in order to minimize the
social impact of adjustment. The first one is a severance payment component, which will compensate each redundant
staff in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on severance payment and with:
(i) article 118 of the Croatian Labor Law which stipulates that the level per year of employment of severance payment
shall not be lower than one half of the average monthly salary paid to the employee concerned, average calculated on
the period of the last three months before contract termination; and
(ii) the agreement reached by HZ to get, for each of its redundant staff, double of minimum severance payment per
year of employment.
In addition, the second component will provide support to laid off staff in terms of training based on regional
employment opportunities, job searching and outplacement. Training will mainly be in the management, commercial,
technical and foreign languages fields, depending on the employee specific skills, demand on the regional labor
market, and career plan. It is estimated that the average cost of training per employee will be about US$250.
Project Component 7 - US$3.0 million (total cost of component)
The implementation of efficiency improvement measures at the company's management and organizational levels is a
key element in ensuring the success of project implementation. Improvements are required in: (i) the management
area, including the company's organizational structure, the decision-making processes, allocations of responsibilities
and preparation of business plans; (ii) the handling of non core-businesses and uneconomic services; (iii) the financial
management systems; (iv) the development of information systems; and (v) work processes and productivity. In this
respect, it is proposed that permanent consultant services be provided to HZ management and the restructuring unit
during at least the first two years of project implementation. The main tasks of the consultants will be to: (a) provide
advice to management on restructuring planning, implementation, and monitoring; (b) introduce commercial
behavior; and (c) put in place the necessary mechanisms (e.g. revision of rail user charges according to market
practices, sale of real estate property, and privatization of HZ subsidiaries) to ensure satisfactory implementation of
the restructuring and modernization process and long-term sustainability. In addition, training will be provided to: (i)
HZ senior staff, principally in the areas of management, marketing, performance evaluation, planning and commercial
business approaches; and (ii) HZ staff, to improve working methods and to introduce them to accountability and
results driven management.



Arnex 3
Page 4 of 4
Project Total Cost: The project total cost is estimated at US$183 million and its financing is presented in
the table below.
Project Financing Plan (US$ million)
Items                   Cost  IBRD  EBRD   HZ
A) Goods and Installation
1) Track renewal and maintenance        24.2   24.2           0.0
2) Rehabilitation of traction units and spare
parts                                   57.8   22.8  35.0   0.0
3) Conversion of freight wagons          3.0    3.0   0.0   0.0
4) Rehabilitation of passenger coaches  10.0   10.0   0.0   0.0
5) Environment Protection                1.6    1.6   0.0   0.0
Sub-total                               96.6   61.6  35.0   0.0
B) Severance Payment                    82.4   35.4   0.0   47.0
C) Technical Assistance                  3.0    3.0   0.0   0.0
D) Front-end Fee                         1.0    1.0   0.0   0.0
Total Project Cost                      183.0  101.0  35.0  47.0



Annex 4
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local          Foreign       Total
-------------U-S--------   $ million--------------------
A) Goods
1) Track Renewal and Maintenance                            14.5            6.2         20.7
2) Rehabilitation of Traction Units and Spare Parts          7.9           41.4          49.3
3) Conversion of Freight Wagons                              0.4            2.2           2.6
4) Rehabilitation of Passenger Coaches                       2.1            6.4           8.5
5) Environment Protection                                    0.7            0.7           1.4
Sub-total         25.6           56.9          82.5
B) Severance Payment                                        70.3            0.0          70.3
C) Efficiency Improvement                                    0.5            2.0           2.5
Total Baseline Cost                                         96.4           58.9         155.3
Physical Contingencies                                    8.7             5.4         14.1
Price Contingencies                                       7.9             4.7         12.6
Front-end Fee                                                                1.0          1.0
Total Proiect Cost                                         113.0           70.0         183.0



Annex 5
Page 1 of3
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Constant 1998 HRK million)
I) Financial Evaluation
Project Components Evaluation    Net Present   Financial Rate of
Value        Return (%)
1) Freight wagons conversion      24.5             41
2) Passenger coaches rehabilitation  60.1          20
3) Traction units rehabilitation and  57.8         25
spare parts
4) Track rehabilitation           127.0            19
5) Staff retrenchment             448.1            39
Overall Financial Evaluation      684.0            26
II) Economic Evaluation
Net Present Value       | Economic Rate of Return (%)
2,157                           54
Summary of benefits and costs:
The main benefit of the project will be the decrease in the Government's contribution to HZ and the
beginning of the transformation of HZ into a viable commercial company in a competitive transport market,
which will be achieved through staff and equipment productivity increases, improvement of the rolling stock
and main network condition, railway services rationalization and the company's reorganization. The main
cost induced by the project (i.e. beyond the project costs per se) relates to its staff retrenchment component,
which will result in 30 percent of HZ staff being declared redundant.
Main assumptions:
Economic evaluation:
The economic evaluation has been based on comparing the level of Government's contribution required in the
"with project" case and in a "without project" case which differs from the "with project" case as follows: (i)
no staff retrenchment program is being conducted; (ii) the size of the investment program remains the same in
both cases, (iii) no productivity increase is foreseen; (iv) any cash surplus generated by HZ is used to reduce
the Government contribution to HZ; (v) the clearing up of the account payables will be taken care of later in
the "without project" case; and (vi) benefits from users which will result from the project have not been taken
into account. With respect to the staff retrenchment component, it has been estimated that 30 percent of the
redundant staff will not be able to reintegrate into the labor force. The remaining staff will be able to find
employment in a period up to 2 years from the time they are separated from the company. The other main
assumptions made to calculate the total Government contribution are summarized in Annex 6.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Note: Given the impact on the national economy of the project's staff retrenchment component, an economic
analysis has been conducted for this component, taking as additional costs the unemployment benefits to be
paid to the redundant staff, the loss of productivity for those redundant staff who will not be able to
reintegrate into the work force, and as additional benefits the marginal productivity of those redundant staff
who will be able to find a new job. The economic evaluation of the staff retrenchment component yields, in
the base case, an intemal rate of return of 26 percent and a net present value of HRK622 million.
Financial Evaluation:
In addition to the assumptions reported above and in Annex 6, the following assumptions have been made for
the different project components.
Freight wagons conversion: for local, long and international transport services, the average length of haul,
number of wagons in service, and price per TKM will remain constant over the evaluation period. The traffic
volume will increase by 5 percent p.a. over the life of the project, in accordance with the traffic forecast study.
In the "without project case", the costs of the wagons are negligible and those wagons do not generate
revenues as they are surplus wagons. A converted wagon will replace an used wagon, and after 16 years of
service, the converted wagon will be sold for scrap.
Passenger coaches rehabilitation: for local, long distance and international traffic, the average distance per
trip, the productivity of the passenger coaches and the traffic volume (in accordance with the traffic forecast
study) have been kept constant. The use of rehabilitated coaches will permit 5 percent in additional :revenue
compared to the use of non rehabilitated coaches. In addition, the maintenance costs of a rehabilitated coach
have been estimated to the maintenance costs of a 10 year old coach.
Traction units and spare parts: traction unit utilization will increase by 2 percent p.a. over the life of the
project and train gross weight will increase by 1 percent p.a. In addition, the maintenance and operating costs
of a rehabilitated traction unit have been estimated to those of a 13 years old traction unit.
Track renewal and maintenance: this component will permit the reduction of rolling stock maintenance anid
operating costs (relative to the "without project case") respectively by 3 percent and 5 percent p.a.., on the
rehabilitated sections of the network. The renewal and maintenance of the priority sections of the main
network will also permit an increase in the average speed by 10 percent, which will permit a reduction of
rolling stock use during the period between the track renewal under the project and the delayed track renewal
in the "without project case". Finally, it has been assumed that, in the "without project case", given the
worsening condition of the track and especially of a high proportion of worn turnouts on the main network,
derailments will be more frequent until the track is rehabilitated in the "without project case". The cost of a
"standard" derailment (i.e. without major physical damage or loss of human lives) has been estimated at about
US$75,000.
Project evaluation risks
The project financial and economic evaluations have been carried out under conservative assuraptions.
However, a number of critical assumptions had to be made regarding the different costs and benefits
generated by the project, especially with respect to the project activities cost estimates, and the benefits from:
(i) the modernization part of the project (resulting in decreased maintenance and operating costs of the
physical assets); and (ii) the staff retrenchment program. These assumptions have been submitted to a
sensitivity analysis, as described below.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
Note: The assumptions made regarding the productivity gains associated with the company's restructuring
have not been considered as critical items which could endanger the soundness of the evaluations, given their
relative small weight (between 2 and 5 percent of the productivities in the "without project case") in those
evaluations.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Economic evaluation
See Section E. I of the main text.
Financial evaluation
The sensitivity analysis conducted shows that the rates of return for the different project components are
adequate (see summary table below). The sensitivity analysis was conducted on the different project
components as follows:
 Freight wagons conversion: the benefits include the revenues generated by the converted wagons and the
costs include conversion and maintenance costs.
a Passenger coaches rehabilitation: the benefits include mainly the savings realized in maintenance costs.
On the cost side, it has been assumed, in a conservative way, that only the costs of the activities
undertaken in the framework of the project had been underestimated by 20 percent.
 Traction units and spare parts: The benefits include the savings on maintenance and operating costs, as
well as the productivity gains related to traction units maintenance and operation activities from the
implementation of the project. On the cost side, it has been assumed, in a conservative way, that only the
costs of the activities undertaken in the framework of the project had been underestimated by 20 percent.
 Track renewal and maintenance: The benefits include all benefits to rolling stock and avoided
derailments due to better track condition. On the cost side, it has been assumed, in a conservative way,
that only the costs of the activities undertaken in the framework of the project had been underestimated by
20 percent
 Staff retrenchment: The benefits include the savings on non paid salaries, and the costs include the
retrenchment costs. The redundant staff productivity has not been considered as a loss for HZ, as it is the
intention of the company to focus on economic services and thus to reduce its overall level of services and
consequently its number of employees.
Component                       Variable    Variation    FRR    Switching   NPV (HRK)
(%)      (%)    values (%)
Freight wagons conversion        Costs        +20       33        +140      21,041,753
Benefits     -20        32       -58        16,132421
Passenger coaches rehabilitation  Costs       +20        14       +30       20,139,317
Benefits     -20        13       -22.5      6,114,700
Traction units and spare parts   Costs        +20       19        +31       21,156,996
Benefits     -20        14        -23       7,213,108
Track renewal and maintenance    Costs        +20       16        +56       84,923,425
Benefits     -20        17        -61      85,338,207
,Staffretrenchment               Costs        +20       32        +139      383,625,360
Benefits     -20        30       -58       294,004,447



Annex 6
Republic of Croatia                                Page 1 of 6
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31: 1994 through 2002
(Ih Millions of Kni.)
1984 - 98 current prices; 1999 -2002 constant mid 1998 prices
1994    1995    1996      1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Average
Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Budget   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.    Annual
Growth
Base: 1994
Income Statemenit Items
Unit Volume (001'sl
Operating Revenues                     1,138    1,203    1,122    1,245    1,234    1,300    1,327    1,365    1,397      2.6%
Operating Subsidies                    1,103    1,120    1,254    1,336    1,410    1,246    1,246    1,246    1,246      1.5%
Operating Income                        -73      -51    -236      -188    -109    -111       -42       36     104
Net Income                             -136    -144    -279    -291    -433    -295    -230    -157            -80       -6.5%
Funds Statement Items
Intenial Sources                        435      431      232      247      106     264      346     434      519         2.2%
Borrowings                              Ill      163      249      545     361      314      266     209      158         4.5%
Equity Investments                       -       -        -        -       251      675      396     330      334
Total Sources                        546      594      481      792      718    1,253    1.008     973    1,011        8.0%
Capital Expenditures                    126      287      344      489     400      637      562     438      400        15.5%
Financial hivestments                   -          2       -5        1       -1      -       -        -       -
Working Capital Increase                215       32      -73       72     -34      320      196     294      265
Debt Service                            205      259      178      230     353      296      250     241      346         6.8%
Adjustments                             -         14       37      -        -        -       -        -       -
Total Applications                   546      594      481      792      718    1,253   1.008      973    1,011        8.0%
Balance Sheet Items
CurrentAssets                           505      706      767      901     701      707      894    1,178    1,435       13.9%
Less Current Liabilities             -470    -639    -773      -835    -669    -356    -346    -337    -329           -4.4%
Net Fixed Assets                       6.088    6,589    6,390    6.452    6.420    6,580    6.654    6,593    6,486      0.8%
Financial Investments                   494      496     491      492      491      491      491     491      491        -0.1%
Total Assets                        6,617   7,152    6,875    7,010    6,942    7,423    7,692    7,926    8,084       2.5%
Debt                                    669      666      780    1,198    1,313    1,412    1.516    1,577    1,481      10.4%
Equity                                5,947    6,486    6,095    5,812    5,630    6,010    6,176    6,349    6,602       1.3%
Total Liabilities and Equity        6.616   7,152    6,875    7,010    6,942    7,423    7.692    7,926    8,084       2.5%
Financial Radto:
Operating Expenses as a
%of Operating Revemue                 158.7%   157.3%   191.1%   187.5%   188.1%   167.7%   160.3%   152.1%   145.5%     -1.1
Operating Expenses as a Y
of Operating Revenue & Subsidies      80.6%    S1.4%    90.20%o   90.4%    87.8%    85.6%    S2.70/o  79.5%    76.9%     -0.6%
Net Income as a
% of Revennite                       -12.0%  -12.0%   -24.9%   -23.4%   -35.1%  -22.7%   -173%   -11.5%    -5.7%         -8.8'Y
Rent?w onAverage Invested (apital                 -0.S%    -3.6%    -2.9%    -1.7%    -1.7%    -0.6%    0.5%     1.6%
Debt Service Coverage *)                   2.1      1.7      1.3      1.1      0.6      1.2     1.8      2.2      1.8        2. 3u/
Percent of Ttwal ( apital
E.rpendirnies finaniced by Internal
Sollrces )                                        58.7%    23.0%    -9.5%   -19.6%   -38.8%    38.9%   63.6%    61.9%
'urr'ent Ratio                             I. I     1.1      IM       1.1      1.0     2.0      2.6      3.5     4.4        19.2'Y
Dhebi (s '% of otal Capitalization       I).l'%    9.3%    11.3%    17.1%    18.9%    19.0%    19.7%    19.9%    18.3%       7.7%M
*) Severance payment not included



,Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Income Statement
Years Ending December 31: 1994 through 2002
(In Millions of Kn.)
1984 - 98 current prices; 1999 -2002 constant mid 1998 prices
Kn. Million                                     Actuial  Actual  Actual Estmate Budget Forecast
1994    1995    1996      1997      199S     1999     2000       2001      2002
Operating Revenue
Passenger Services                                 183     214      226       240      240      240       240        240       240
Freight Operations                                 417     496      425       443      470      474       498        523       549
Other                                              538     493      471       562      524      586       589        603       608
Total Operating Revenue:                           1,138    1,203    1,122    1,245    1,234    1,300     1,327      1,365     1,397
Operating Subsidies                                1,103   1,120    1,254     1,336    1,410    1,246     1,246      1,246     1,246
Revenue                                            2,241    2,323    2,376    2,581    2,644    2,547     2,573      2,612     2,643
Operating Expense
Wages and salaries                                 563      767      907     1,005    1,028     976        950       927        908
Other Expenses to Employees                                                   180      171      174        177        180       183
Fuel and electricity                               176      201      222      233      241      237        232       228        223
Material expenses                                  278      262      303      341      353      345        338       331        324
Purchased services                                 332      216      175      178      184      179        174       169        164
investment Maintenance                             141       98      143       99      102       99         96        93         91
Other expenses                                     316      348      394      298      241      170        160       150        140
Depreciation                                       508      482     468       435      432      477        488       498        507
Total Operating Expenses:                          2,314   2,374    2,612     2,769    2,753    2,657     2,615      2,575     2,540
Operating Income                                     -73     -51    -236       -188    -109    -111         -42        36        104
Financial Income
Financial Revenue
Financial Expenses                                   63       93       43      103      107       82         88        93         92
Extraordinary Expenses:
Severance payments                                                                     100      102        100       101         92
Bad Debt                                                                               117
Income before Taxes                                -136    -144    -279       -291     -433    -295        -230      -157        -80
Taxes
NET INCOME                                         -136    -144    -279       -291     -433    -295        -230      -157        -80
Ratios
Working ratio (excl subsidies)                     159%    157%    191%       188%    188%    168%        160%       152%       145%
Working ratio (incl. subsidies)                     81%     81%      90%       90%      88%      86%       83%        80%        77%
Operating Subsidy as%of GDP                       1.26%    1.14%    1.17%    1.12%    1.07%    0.90%      0.85%     0.81%      0.77%



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Balance Sheet
Years Ending December 3 1: 1994 through 2002
(In Millions of Km)
1984 -91 current prices; 1999 -2002 constant mid 1998 prices
Kn Million                                     Actual  Actual  Actual Estimate  Budget Forecast
1994    1995    1996      1997     1998    1999      2000      2001      2002
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and Equivalent                                22       46      37        54       66      109      321        618       878
Accounts Receivable                               161      180     182       236      165      174       179       185       190
Provision for Bad Debt
Inventory                                         186     307      386       368      341      303       281       268       262
Other Current Assets                              136      173     162       243      129      121       112       107       105
Total Current Assets                              505      706     767       901      701      707       894     1,178     1,435
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in Operation                 23,297  23,888   24,065   24,237   24,797   25,407    25,986    26,472    26,901
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                  17,372  17,477   17,936   18,233   18.665   19,142    19,630    20,129    20,636
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                    5,925   6,411    6,129     6,004    6,132    6,265     6,356    6,343      6,265
Work in Progress                                  163      178     261       448      288      315       298      250        221
Net Intangible and Other Assets
Total Fixed Assets                               6,088   6,589    6,390    6,452    6,420    6,580     6,654     6,593     6,486
Financial Investments                             494     496      491       492      491     491.      491       491        491
Total Assets                                     7,087   7,791    7,648    7,845    7,612    7,779     8,038     8,263     8,413
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Bank Overdraft
Accounts Payable                                  273     392      557       571      470      141      137        133       129
Other Current Liabilities                         197     247      216       264      199     215       209        204       200
Total Current Liabilities                         470     639      773       835     669      356       346       337       329
Long-Term Liabilities and Equity
Long-Term Debt                                    669     666      780     1,198    1,313    1,412     1,516     1,577     1,481
Shareholders' Equity
Total Paid-in Capital                            6,083   6,083    6,083    6,083    6,083    6.083     6,083     6.083     6,083
Government Contribution                                                               251     926      1,321     1.651     1,984
Revaluation and Other Adjustments                         683      571       579     579      579       579       579        579
Retained Earnings                                (136)   (280)   (559)    (850)  (1,283)  (1,577)   (1,807)   (1,964)   (2,044)
Total Shareholders' Equity                       5,947   6,486    6,095    5,812    5.630    6,010     6,176     6,349     6,602
Total Liabilities and Equity                     7,086   7,791    7,648    7,845    7,612    7,779     8,038     8,263     8,413
Ratios
Current Ratio                                      1.1     1.1      1.0       1.1      1.0      2.0      2.6        3.5       4.4
Current Ratio (Excl. Cash)                         1.0      1.0     0.9       1.0      0.9      1.7      1.7        1.7       1.7
Debt/Equity                                       11%      10%     13%       21%      23%     23%       25%       25%        22%



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Cash Flow Statement
Years Ending December 31: 1994 through 2002
(In Millions of Kn.)
1984 - 98 current prices; 1999 -2002 constant mid 1998 prices
Kn Million                                      Actual  Actual  Actual Estimate  Budget Forecast
1994    1995    1996      1997     1998    1999       2000       2001      2002
Cash Flow From Operations
Operating Income                                    (73)    (51)   (236)    (188)    (109)    (111)         (42)       36       104
Severance paymentst()                                 0       0        0         0      100      102       100        101        92
Bad Debt Write off                                    0       0        0         0      117        0         0          0         0
Depreciation (+)                                    508     482      468       435      432      477       488        498       507
Corporate Taxes (-)
Cash Flows From Operations                         435      431      232      247       106     264        346       434        519
Debt Service
Interest Expenses and Fees                           63      93       43       103      107       82        88         93        92
Principal                                           142     166      135       127      246      214       162        148       254
Total Debt Service                                 205      259      178       230      353      296       250        241       346
Changes in Net Working CapRal Other than Cash (-)     0       8      (64)       55      (46)    277         (16)       (3)        6
Adjustments (-)                                              14       37
Financial Investments (-)                                     2        (5)       1       (1)       0
Cash Flow Available for Capital Expenditure        230      148       86       (39)    (199)   (309)       113        196       168
Capital Expenditures                                126     287      344       489      400      637       562        438        400
Financing Gap                                     (104)    139       258      528      599      946        449        242       232
Financed by:
Debt                                                111     163      249       545      361      314       266        209        158
State Budget: (Infrastructure Investments)                                                       275       285        256       242
State Budget: Equity Contribution (War Damage)                                           98       95        58         20
State Budget: Severance Payments                                                         53       55        53         54         92
State Budget: Accounts Payable                                                          100      250
Total                                              1i1      163      249       545      611      989       662        539        492
Cash lncreaselDecrease                              215      24       (9)       17       12       43       212        297        259
Cash Beginning of Year                             (193)     22       46        37       54       66       109        322        619
Cash End of Year                                     22      46       37        54       66      109       322        619        878
Ratios
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                        2.1 x    1.7 x    1.3 x    1.1 x    0.6 x    1.2 x      1.8 x      2.2 x     1.8 x
Self Financing Ratio                               111%     59%      23%      -10%     -20%    -39%        39%        64%       62%



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Assumptions
1998 current prices; 1999 -2002 constant mid 1998 prices
1 S98     1999      2000      2001      2002
Macroeconomic Assumptions
Domestic Inflation (CPI)                          3 5%
GDP Growth                                       10.3%       5 5%     5 5%       5 5%     5 5%
Revenue Assumptions
Price Increases
Passenger
Long distance and local                          -1 4%       0 0%     0 0%       0.0%     0.0%
International                                   22 2%        0 0%     0 0%      0.0%      0 0%
Freight
Long distance and local                           0 0%       0.0%     0.0%       0 0%     0 0%
International                                    0 0%        0 0%     0 0%      0 0%      0 0%
Traffic Growth
Passenger
Long distance and local                           0.0%       0 0%     0 0%       0.0%     0.0%
International                                     0 0%       0 0%     0.0%       0.0%     0 0%
Freight
Long distance and local                           5 0%       5 0%     5 0%       5 0%     5 0%
International                                     5 0%       5 0%     5 0%       5 0%     5 0%
Operating Subsidies                              1,410      1,246    1,246      1,246    1,246
Operating Subsidies as Percent of GDP            1 07%      0 90%    0 85%      0 81%    0.77%
GDP (WB Estimate for 1998)                    131,256
GDP Growth                                       10 3%       5 5%     5.5%       5 5%     5 5%
Expense Assumptions
Wages and Salaries
Numberof Staff on January 31                   22,908      20,487   19,137    17,937   16,837
Staff Reduction                                 2,421       1,350    1,200      1,100     900
with severence payment                        1,491       1,150    1,000       900      700
by natural attrition                           130         200      200       200       200
transfer to subsidiaries                        800         -       -          -        -
Number of Staff on December30                  20,487      19,137   17,937    16,837   15,937
Average Monthly Salary                          3,948       4,106    4,271     4,441    4,619
Growth                                             8%          4%       4%        4%        4%



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Assumptions
1998 current prices; 1999 -2002 constant mid 1998 prices
1998      1999       2000      2001      2002
Annual Cost Reduction (in real terms)
Fuel and Electricity
Infrastructure                                               -1.9%    -1.9%      -1.9%    -1 9%
Transport                                                    -1.9%    -1.9%      -1.9%    -1 9%
-1.9%    -1.9%     -1 9%    -1.9%
Material fxpenses
Infrastructure                                              -1.25%   -1.25%     -1.25%   -1.25%
Transport                                                  -3 35%   -3.35%      -3.35%   -3.35%
-215%   -2.14%     -2.13%   -2.12%
Purchased services
Infrastructure                                              -1.25%   -1.25%     1 25%   -1.25%
Transport                                                   -3.35%   -3.35%     -3.35%   -3.35%
-2.92%   -2.91%    -2 90%   -2.89%
Investment Maintenance
Infrastructure                                              -1.25%   -1.25%     -1 25%   -1.25%
Transport                                                   -3 35%   -3 35%     -3 35%   -3.35%
-3 05%   -3 04%    -3.03%   -3.03%
Balance Sheet Assumptions
Working Capital:
Cash and Cash Equivalents                              Balancing Line
Accounts Receivable (excl. VAT)
Number of Days average Revenue                      85         60       60         60       60
Accounts Payable
Inventory (Material and Fuel)
SpeedofTumover(Days)                              210         190      180        175      175
Fixed Assets:
Oepreciation Rate                                 1.8%        1.9%     1.9%      1.9%      19%
Long Term Debt:
Real rate of interest                               6%         6%       6%         6%       6%



Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the Bank's loan will follow the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRO Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January 1996 and August 1996, and September 1997, for goods and
works, and the Guidelines: Use of ('onsultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing
Agency, January 1997, revised September 1997. For procurement under the Loan, the Borrower would use: (i) the
Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and (ii) the Bank's standard request for proposal for
selection of consultants.
Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business,
after appraisal of the project, announcing works, goods and consultants services to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information from HZ. The GPN will also be published in the local press.
Procurement rules:
Goods: Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB): ICB will be used to procure goods for contracts estimated to
cost more than US$400,000 each.
International Shopping (IS): IS will be used for procuring project equipment and materials estimated to cost more
than US$100,000 and less than US$400,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$3,000,000. IS is based on
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in at least two countries.
National Shopping (NS): This method will be used to procure locally available goods, for contracts to cost less
than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000, with at least three quotations obtained
from local suppliers.
Direct Contracting (DC): DC would be used to procure spare parts for locomotives, and other rolling stock spare
parts of a proprietary nature. Any direct contracting not identified in the procurement plan will be subject to the
Bank's prior approval.
Services: Consultants will be engaged following Quality and Cost-Based Selection, Least-Cost Selection (for
contracts expected to cost less than US$200,000 per contract), and Selection of Individual Consultants.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All the ICB goods contracts, the first IS contract, and all consulting contracts exceeding US$100,000 in
the case of firms, and US$50,000 in the case of individuals, would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All
other procurement documents and procedures would be subject to the Bank's ex-post review on a random basis.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
In accordance with the new IBRD Loan Charge Policy, and following the request of the Borrowaer, the
total IBRD loan amount is US$101 million equivalent, including a US$1 million front-end fee. Disbursemnent for
severance payments would be made against withdrawal applications which would provide all the necessary
information on beneficiaries, including employee identification and staff number, dates of employment and
separation, latest salary and amount of separation grant paid. A sample of these applications would be reviewed
by the Bank prior to disbursement.  HZ would maintain severance payments files with all the related
documentation, including the employment contract termination document which provides all the necessary
information for the computation of the severance compensation, and records the employee agreement:. The
documentation in the files would be periodically reviewed by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank.
Retroactive Financing:
ECU8,000,000 (about US$9,500,000 equivalent) will be used to cover expenses made against the staff
retrenchment component before the signing date of the loan agreement but after September 1, 1998. This will
allow HZ to substantially complete the 1998 part of the retrenchment program.
UJse of statements of expenses (S'OEs):
Disbursements from the loan for the following types of contracts would be made by the Bank on receipt
of full documentation: (i) goods contracts valued at US$400,000 or more; (ii) all consulting contracts with firms;
and (iii) consulting contracts with individuals valued at US$50,000 or more. Disbursements for contracts in
amounts below the thresholds indicated above would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for
which full supporting documentation would be retained by HZ. In addition, in accordance with the March 5,
1996 operational memorandum on "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform Operations",
disbursements for the severance payment component will also be made on the basis of SOEs submitted by the
Borrower. These SOEs will provide information on actual severance payments and changes in aggregate
employment during the reporting period. The information will include employee identification and staff number,
dates of employment and of separation, latest salary and amount of separation grant paid. A sample of the SOE
for the staff retrenchment component will be reviewed by the Bank prior to disbursement. HZ will maintain a
database with all the related documentation, including the employment contract termination document which
provides the necessary information for the computation of the severance compensation, and records the
employee agreement. The database will be subject to auditing, and will be made available to Bank supervision
missions.
,Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would open and maintain a Special Account in
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will be maintained and operated by HIZ in a
currency to be agreed upon. The authorized allocation of the Special Account has been agreed to at DEM8
million. Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis, and will include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate documents.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         IS        Other       N.B.F
1. Goods
a) Construction materials
Track Renewal and           23.2 (23.2)  1.0 (1.0)                            24.2 (24.2)
Maintenance
Environment Protection       0.8 (0.8)   0.7 (0.7)    0.1 (0.1)                1.6 (1.6)
b) Equipment and machinery
Rehabilitation of Traction  13.0 (13.0)  1.0 (1.0)    8.8 (8.8)   35.0        57.8 (22.8)
Units and Spare Parts
Conversion of Freight        3.0 (3.0)                                         3.0 (3.0)
Wagons
Rehabilitation of Passenger    10.0 (10.0)                                    10.0 (10.0)
Coaches
Sub-total 50.0 (50.0)   2.7 (2.7)    8.9 (8.9)  35.0        96.6 (61.6)
2. Severance Pavment                              35.4 (35.4)     47.0        82.4 (35.4)
3. Consultancies
Technical Assistance                                3.0 (3.0)                  3.0 (3.0)
4. Front-end Fee                                    1.0                        1.0 (1.0)
Total                    50.0 (50.0)  2.7 (2.7)   48.3 (48.3)  82.0       183.0 (101.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-fmanced (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
"Other" includes: Payment of the front-end fee (US$1 million); Direct Contracting (DC, for
US$8.8 million); National Shopping (NS, for US$0.1 million); Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
(QBCS, for US$2 million); Least-Cost Selection (LCS, for US$0.5 million); Selection of
Individual Consultants (US$0.5 million); and Severance Payment (US$35.4 million)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan



Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
Table B: Procurement Information Summary
~~~~~~~~~~                                                       i_ _ _ _ _ ..; 
Goods                     ICB                IS                 NS                  DC
Procurement Method
Thresholds                 >0.4             >0.1              c<0.1                 n.a.
Procurement Method
Aggregate                  50.0              3.0                0.2                 8.8
Prior Review               All            First one             n.a.                n.a.
Prior Review
Aggregates                 50.0              1.0                n.a.                n.a.
Consultants              QBCS               QBS                LCS              Individuals
Procurement Methods
Thresholds                >0.2              n.a.               <0.2                 n.a.
Prior Review               All              n.a.                All          Above US$50,000
Prior Review
Aggregates             n.a.                  2.0                0.5                 0.4
Expost Review       A copy of the signed contracts will be sent to the Bank. The documentation will be kept
by HZ and reviewed by Bank staff during su ervision missions. __
HZ will have primary responsibility for procurement. HZ has extensive experience with the Bank's procurement,
as illustrated by the satisfactory ongoing procurement of the railway component of the Emergency Transport and
Landmines Clearance Project. In addition, Bank procurement procedures will be explained in detail during the
project launch mission.
Country Procurement Assessment Report Are bidding documents for procurement actions of the first year
Status:                               ready by negotiations:
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are being
To be prepared in FY99                prepared and expected to be completed before loan effectiveness.
Estimated date of                  Indicate if there is procurement
Project launch   Estimated date of  subject to mandatory SPN in
workshop:     publication of GPN:  the Development Business:  Domestic preference for goods:
February 1999     December 1998    All ICB and QBS contracts              Yes
Retroactive financing  ECU8 million                   lAdvance procurement
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The ECSIN procurement monitoring system will be used to ensure that the Bank service standards are rnet. All
incoming procurement is logged and then sent to the responsible person or his back-up for action.
Co-financing: The Project is co-financed by the EBRD. However, the banks finance separate components on a
parallel basis. Thus, there will be no conflict between procurement guidelines.
Indicate the name of the Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of the Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project.  Ahmet Gokce (ECSIN)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
A local engineer is being recruited by the Croatia Resident Mission to assist with the supervision of projects,
including the processing of procurement. However, this person will need a certain learning period before being
able to take significant procurement responsibilities. In the meantime, procurement will be handled from
Headquarters.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in         Financing Percentage
US$ million
Goods
Track renewal and maintenance       21.00    100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
Traction units rehabilitation and spare    20.00    of local expenditures (ex-factory
parts                                        cost) and 85% of local expenditures
Freight wagons conversion            3.00    for other items procured locally
Passenger coaches rehabilitation     9.00
Environment protection               1.60
Severance payment                         33.40             43%
Consultants services                       3.00            100%
Front-end Fee                               1.01
Unallocated                                9.01
Total   101.02



Annex 8
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
375                  210
B. Project Schedule                              Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          10                    19
First Bank mission (identification)              5/12/1997            5/12/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      1/05/1998            6/15/1998
Negotiations                                     2/09/1998            11/09/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       n.a               02/15/1999
Prepared by: Hrvatske Zeljeznice
Preparation assistance: Japanese Grant and Canadian Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project include:
Name                                     Specialty
Enn Vasur                          Senior Transport Economist
Enar Wennerstrom                           Financial Analyst
Sunja Kim                               Financial Analyst
Aymeric-Albin Meyer                         Transport Engineer
Louis Thompson                     Railways Adviser (peer reviewer)



Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Summarv of the Environmental Assessment and Action Plan
ENVARONMENTAL EFFECTS                                                                                               POSSIBLE MITIGATION
COMPONENT                           Positive                                       Negative                        short-term        long-term                              MEASURES
direct indirect direct indirect
General                                                        potential for increased noise levels from higher                      . ,.           higher specification for new  rehabilitated locomotives and rolling
speeds and greater frequencies                                   ,                  stock, improved track and fittings, minimize night time running in
sensitive areas
potential for increased emissions from greater use of                               high qualitv regular maintenance, avoid long periods of idling,
diesel locomotives for long haul and shunting                .                      particularly in shunting yards
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Track renewal and maintenance - Botovo Zagreb Rijelca, Savskc ,farof Zagreb Tovarnik, Ostarije Knn. Split
higher speeds, shorter Joumey times, losver per km
energ consumption
improved safety_
lower maintenance costs due to replacement of
wooden sleepers by concrete sleepers
improvements to culverts, stream crossings etc.,
protecting water supply
improv ed surface drainage protecting the sub-soil
from pollutants In areas of high priorit, aquifer
protection trackbed sealing could be installed
dust from the removal and disposal of track ballast                                 greater control during handling, consider reuse after cleaning or
sale to construction companies
removal and disposal of timber sleepers                                             recycle/reuse of sleepers not impregnated wvith paint or
preservatives, incinerate if contaminated
removal and disposal of rails and other metals                                      recvcle
noise and vibration from ballast tamping and rail                                   timing of vork
regrinding
dust from excavation wvorks                                                         emission controls of construction activities
site traffic causing noise, dust, traffic delay, severance  A                       emission and operational controls during construction, traffic
Z.Egt. e             ~~management
disturbance to potentially contaminated land           s..:                         special handling measures and disposal to purpose built or licensed
tips
2. Electrical - Signalling, Telecommunications, Power Supply
higher speeds, shorter joumey times, increased
capacity, lower per km energy use
improved safety for train drivers, traffic and
pedestrians
los-er air pollution levels due to steady increase in
use of electric locomotives
improved overhead catenarv design and installation,                                                                                                                                                   CD
resulting in less visual intrusion                                                                                 _
more efficient use of human resources, opportunities                                                                    _
for staff reductions                                                                                                                                                                                 4      '



ENIIRONMENTAI EFFECTS                                                                                                       POSSIBLEMITIGATION
PROJECT                               Positive                                          Negative                          short-term         longg-term                                MEASURES
COMPONENT
direct indirect direct indirect
improved design of new electricitv feeder stations
power source unknown but potential effect of                                              energy efficient and low emission powver source to be advocated
emissions from powxer generation
B. ROLLING STOCK
1. Modernization of Locomotives - Diesel MLlain Line, Diesel Shunting, Electric, Loco Spares
more efficient use of energy (electricity, diesel oil)
producing cost savings
lowver noise and combustion gas emissions per train                                                                   I
Itm_
less oil leakage to track and sub-soil
disposal of waste - oil, batterv acids, metals     X                                      appropnate disposal processes, recycle where possible producing
cost savings, generating revenues
potential leakage of anti-corrosion fluids                                                select fluids with low pollution levels, segregated drainage
2. Reconstruction of Coaches
lower noise levels
lower levels of sanitary emissions
disposal of waste - oil, fabrics, plastics, wood, metals   g                              appropriate disposal processes, recycle where possible producing
cost savings, generating revenues
3.Modernization ofEMUls
more efficient use of energy
lower noise emissions
less oil leakage to track and sub-soil                                                                                I
lower levels of sanitary emissions
disposal of waste - oil, fabrics, plastics, wood, metals                                  appropriate disposal processes, recycle wvhere possible producing
cost savings, generating revenues
4. Freight Wagons - Reconstruction, Parchase
lower noise levels
less risk of spillage/leaking of potentially pollutive
freight. Improved safety
disposal of vaste - oil, fabrics, plastics, wood, metals                                 appropriate disposal processes, recycle where possible producing
cost savings, generating rev-enues
S.Servicing Depot in Zagreb for Coaches
reduction of noise level from serniced coaches
disposal of waste-grease, wood, fabrics, metals                                           appropriate disposal processes, recycle where possible producing
cost savings, generating revenues
6.Modernization of Regional Servicing Depots
reduction of noise levels from serviced rolling stock
closure of smaller workshops, reducing pollution
disposal of vaste-grease, wood, fabrics, metals                                           appropriate disposal processes, recycle where possible producing      C
cost savings, generating revenues
pollutants continuing to reach sub-soils from                                             improved working procedures, use of biological cleaning fluids,             <
servicing and cleaning (some depots)                                                     improxements to drainage (see E2j                                      -



ENVIRONMlENTAL EFFECTS                                                                                              POSSIBLE MITIGATIOX
POROJECT                            Positive                                       Negative                        short-term        long-term                              MEASURES
direct indirect direct indirect
CIN'FORMVATICS
supports more efficient operations and therefore a
better use of resources
D.BUILDINGS
improvement of energy efficiency through
improvements to building fabric
improved working environment promotes greater                                                                          U
efficdencv                                                                                                                                                              h
disposal ofwvaste building materials, panmcular care  - --appropnate dispasal procedures, recycle where possible producing
over potentially pollutive waste                                                    cost savings, generating revenues
E-ENM'70tMENTAL
l. Industrial Waste Drainage Improvements to Zagreb Shunting yard
protecting the catchment of hlala h laka drinkig
water pumping station through segregated drainage
and improved on-site treatment
improvements to public health
reduction of contamination fees payable by HZ,
releasing funds for use on other priortyt works
2.Studies to Assess the Needfor Improvements to the industrial Waste Drainage Systems in Other Towns and Ci'ies
improvemeijts to public health
protection of drinking water supplies
protection of the sea and marine life, particularly at
Rijeka
reduction of contamination fees payable by HZ,
releasing fuids for use on other pnontv iiorks
3.Program to Encourage the CtSse of Rail Tratnsport
support of sustainable transport policies
more efficient use of energy
reducing overall pollution levels through transfer of
some traffic from road to rail
increasing HZ revenues, generating the potential for
further investment in environmental projects
4. Refurbishment. Redevelopment of FuelDepots
prevention of further soil pollution through
improvemnets to fuel delivery systems, hard
standing protective bund and drainage
reduction in fuel consumption through greater
control (more efficient use of energy sources,
reduced costs) 
rehabilitation ofpolluted soils
impacts during construction - dust, waste removal etc                               emission controls, special handling measures, recycling, re-use,   0    z
etc



ENI'RONAUENTAL EFFECTS                                                                                                POSSIBLE MITIGATION
COMPONENT                           Positive                                        Negative                         short-term        long-telm                              MlEASURES
direct indirect direct tndirect
5.Establishment of Recycling Yards
purpose built locations for the efficient collection
and storage of old materials (oil, batteries, air filters,
chemicals, acids, metals, rubber) for reuse, recycling
or destruction (reduced costs of new materials,
potential revenue from sale)
impacts during construction - dust, waste removal etc.                                emission controls, special handling measures, recycling, re-use,
etc.
potential conhmmunitv impacts                                                         determine location and the axvoldance of the more sensitive areas
6.Pilot Projectfor the Instahation of Oil Filters at Key Locations to Catch Leaking Oil
reduced soil pollution
reduces cost of rehabilitating land
reduces contamination fees
7.Environmental Monitoring Program
early wvarning of environmental problems
assesses the performance of investment in the
envi-ronmental program
indicates wihere future investment is required
8.Institutional Strengthening
review the role of the environmental department in
relation to HZ's strategic and day-to-day operations,
staff training
agreement to official HZ ensironmental policy
preparation of an environmental Mlanagement
System, integrating environmental criteria into the
core business decision making process
maximizing the benefits from current investment,
and providing the potential for cost savings through
reuse and recycling of materials and tower penalty
payments to the water authorities
OCD



Annex 10
Republic of Croatia
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Preparatory Studies
C. Staff Appraisal Report
D. Financial and Economic Evaluation
E. Environmental Assessment and Action Plan
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Croatia
Operations Portfolio
As of 07-Dec-98
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions              and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID   Year          Borrower              Purpose
IBRD     IDA    Cancellations Undisbursed  Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 1
Active
Projects
HR-PE-40139   1998 MINISTRY OF FINANCE   INVESTMENT RECOVERY            30.00    0.00          0.00          29.64       12.27    0.00
HR-PE-43444  1998  CROATIAN BANK FOR        MUNIC. ENVIR. INFRA.        36.30    0.00          0.00          38.21        .83     0.00
RECONST
HR-PE-48983  1998  CROATIA GOVERNMENT    EAST. SLAVONIA REC.            40.60    0.00          0.00          43.50        .24     0.00
HR-PE-44457   1997 REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   EMER. TRNSP/MINE CL.           102.00    0.00         0.00          52.19      32.96    0.00
HR-PE-8327   1997 REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   EFSAL                           95.00    0.00          0.00          47.03       1.51     0.00
HR-PE-8334    1997  GOVT. OF CROATIA        COASTAL FOREST RECON        42.00    0.00          0.00          41.15      29.85    0.00
HR-PE-40142  1996 REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   CAPITAL MARKET DEV.              9.50     0.00         0.00           1.96       2.27     0.00
HR-PE-40830  1996 REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             5.00     0.00         0.00           1.83       1.84     0.00
HR-PE-8335    1996 REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   FARMER SUPPORT SERVI           17.00    0.00          0.00          13.88       5.18     0.00
HR-PE-39450   1995  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   HEALTH PROJECT                40.00    0.00          0.00          3.84        3.85     0.00
HR-PE-8329    1995  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   HIGHWAY SECTOR                80.00    0.00          0.00          21.28       7.93     0.00
HR-PE-8328    1994  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA   EMERGENCY RECONSTRUC          128.00    0.00         0.00          1.70        1.72     0.00
HR-PE-39002   1989  ISTRIAN WW & PULA WW ISTRIA WS                      28.00    0.00          0.00          14.70       14.68    0.00
Total                                                                   653.40    0.00         0.00         310.91      115.13    0.00
Active Projects   Closed Projects       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):         330.38                2.91          333.29
of which has been repaid:         12.07                2.91            14.98
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:         641.33                0.00          641.33
Amount sold                     :         0.00                0.00            0.00
Of which repaid              :         0.00                0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed               :       310.91                0.00          310.91
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Nov-98.
CD
CD



Annex I I
Pagce 2 of 2
Croatia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Oct-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973/81/98            Belisce                15.16    6.01    0.00   12.13   15.16    6.01    0.00   12.13
1996                  T.S. Banka D.D.         0.00    1.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.19    0.00    0.00
1997                  Koroinacno             12.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Alpe Jadran             4.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
TotalPortfolio:                    31.53    7.20    0.00   12.13   17.59    7.20    0.00   12.13
Approvals Pending Conunitment
Loan   Equitv  Quasi  Partic
1999                  CROATIA CAPITAL         0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  T.S. BANKA RI           0.00      .12    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Cominuitent:          0.00    5.12    0.00    0.00



Republic of Croatia                                                 Annex 12
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project                                       Page 1 of 2
Croatia at a glance
Europe &   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Croatia     Asia  income        Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       4.5      476       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 4,610      2,320    4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     20.7     1,106     2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       -0.1       0.2       1.5 5   Gr
Labor force (%36)                                     0.0       0.5       1.9     GNP                           pGross
per    '                    Iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              57        67        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      73        69        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               9        25        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                       ..                        Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                96         ..       79
Illiteracy (96 of,population age 15+)                  ..        ..       15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  86       92       107              Croatia
Male                                                87         ..        .              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              86         ..        ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997   |
Economic ratios0
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..       .       19.7      19.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 ..       ..      22.1      24.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..       ..      42.0     42.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..       ..      12.4       7.8
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..       ..      17.5      11.7
Current account balance/GDP                   ..       ..      -4.5    -12.5      Domestic                   I t
Interest payments/GDP                         ..       ..       0.7       1.2     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..       ..      24.4      31.1     Svn
Total debt servicelexports                    ..       ..       4.9       8.6
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      21.2
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      45.0        ..
Indebtedness
(average annual growth)                 199197      1996      1997   1998-02
GDP                                         -1.6      6.0       6.5                  -Croatia
GNP per capita                              -1.1     10.3       6.2        *               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods                              ..    -6.3        8.8        ..   I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1986      1996     1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        1a
Agriculture                                            ..       8.6       8.4
Industry                                               .       24.2      24.5    -                  94   95   96   97
Manufacturing                                        ..      18.9      19.2            9           4 9        9 9
Services                                                       67.2      67.1      -207
Private consumption                                    ..      59.0      65.2    -30
General government consumption                         ..      28.5     27.1               -     G01    -G--GDP
Imports of goods and services                          ..      51.7      58.4
(average annual growth)                          1991-95      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                          -6.7        ..              is-
Industry                                            -12.6        ..        ..
Manufacturing                                     -12.9                         o
Services                                             -3.0        ..        .             92   93   94          9    97
Private consumption                                    ..        ..        ..   -10/
General government consumption                                                   -20
Gross domestic investment                              ..-20
Imports of goods and services                          ..        ..        ..            -Exports   ---Imports
Gross national product                               -1.5       6.2       6.2   1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Republic of Croatia                                                    Annex 12
Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project                                          Page 2 of 2
(roatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1986      1996      1997      Inflation l%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         2,000
Consumer prices                                         ..        3.6       3-7    1,500t
Implicit GDP deflator                                   ..        2.8       4.2    100t
Govemment finance                                                                   500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                    o
Current revenue                                         ..       49.2      49.6              92   93   94   ss   96   97
Current budget balance                                            5.5       4.7                    GDP deflator   0-CR
Overall surplus/deficit                                 ..       -0.4     -1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                        1986      1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      ..    4,546     4,206      10,000
Capital goods                                                                      8 000
Chemicals                                              ..    643.0    570.4       ,00
Manufactures                                           ..   4334.0   4145.0        6,000
Total imports (cif)                                             7,788    9,104      4,r00
Food                                                   ..     767.1    831.6
Fuel and energy                                               857.4    849.9      2,000
Capital goods 
91  92  93  94  9s  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                           ..        110      112
Import price index (1995=100)                           ..         ..        ..               o Exports    El Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio l%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                           ..    8,024    8,199         8
Imports of goods and services                           ..    9,911    11,402
4
Resource balance                                               -1,887    -3,202      2
Net income                                               ..      -21       -84       093  94 
Net current transfers                                   ..    1,028        852      -4
Current account balance                                 ..      -881    -2,435
Financing items (net)                                           1,304    2,623      12'
Changes in net reserves                                 ..      -423      -188    -14
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                  ..    2,314    2,539
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                                  5 4       6.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1986      1996      1997   1
(US$ millions)                                                                    I Composition oftotal debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     0      4,815    6,067
IBRD                                                   0       195       277                    G: 438 A: 277 c 232
IDA                                                    0         0         0
D: 305
Total debt service                                       0       450       806                        -
IBRD                                                   0        26        29
IDA                                                    0         0         0                                     E. 1,017
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                        0         0         0
Official creditors                                     0        23        57
Private creditors                                      0       455     1,225
Foreign direct investment                              ..      509       196
Portfolio equity                                       0        27       174            F 3,79s
World Bank program
Commitments                                            0       176       125      A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                          0       105       112      B-IDA    D-Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                   0        16        14     C- IMF                        C- Short-term
Net flows                                              0        89        98      _
Interest payments                                      0        11        14
Net transfers                                          0        78        84
Development Economics



IBRD 29793
CROATIA
.s _a''-9  U N dA R Y         RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND
RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ITALY                                        ,Lts ,<    X     7/771-v 
,   ,<   1-11 <1::.et\   or '\ -twX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA,ROD
- 46                                                                                                                   PC S L O V E N I A  @ '   G REP;  /  'v-~~ \\   ~!   \    S1Xt}   4e  tAItROA-
4;o f a 5 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                         S  rI:N
SLOV,iN ABOSNIA AND
o  - I 7d'4   +   "   1ERLEGOVINA                                  L
-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4*aJuD                                                                                   I                        199 PO4
L~; 200t91 PROGA'."
.4
45-                                                                            0                                                           NtC TOWNS 
~~: A                                   ;                                           ._ .--s
-43' ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ .              %.2s jttO00t<5 ~ --\-Q-   f1    FED. REP. 4
0~~~~~                                A   0t- 0---C   ki       O
OF
:   :  ::                      .-. '_          t  ~~~~~~~YUGOSLAVIA
i 0 0 0 ,, , 0o o Co3{77 *8t;-:,\  l,  j (SERB./
, Aeop r*lr   u   e  rt  ;   0    0 0  DU 4rol  L. .  (   M O N T.     5N 7)  C
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
polols, dnm l 54 a dN .R |R                                                                                 ,                   5.C     25   50 T  75    100 L BOUN,ARF
~~~~~v Ar." ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ OS I                  N
lle~~~~~~~~~~ 1E d                                                                     8dr   odE&o            \                     5S                  51O   
I44                                      I                    I                                         I f                                                 DECFM3E7 19D 1



