                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 33204

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (SCL-44330 TF-29316)

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$101.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                          TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                          FOR A

                 RAILWAY MODERNIZATION & RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                      December 28, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 2005)

                            Currency Unit = HRK
                                    HRK1 = US$ 0.174
                                     US$ 1 = HRK5.747

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -   December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DMU       Diesel Multiple Unit
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
ECU       European Currency Unit
EFSAL     Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EMU       Electric Multiple Unit
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GPN       General Procurement Notice
HZ        Hrvatske Zeljeznice (Croatian Railways)
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ILO       International Labour Organization
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISA       International Standards of Auditing
MMATC     Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MSTTD     Ministry of Sea, Transport, Tourism, and Development
NPV       Net Present Value
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAL       Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PPIAF     Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PSO       Public Service Obligation
PSR       Project Status Report
PTL       Project Team Leader
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SOE       Statements of Expenditure

                           Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                         Country Director      Anand K. Seth, ECCU5
                          Sector Manager       Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Sunja Kim, ECSIE

                                               CROATIA
                            Railway Modernization & Restructuring Project


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
     6. Sustainability                                                                14
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
     9. Partner Comments                                                              18
     10. Additional Information                                                       22
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Map: IBRD No. 29793

Project ID: P039161                                                  Project Name: Railway Modernization & Restructuring
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Sunja Kim                                               TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Railway Modernization & Restructuring Project            L/C/TF Number: SCL-44330; TF-29316
   Country/Department: CROATIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Railways (65%); Other social services (35%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring
                            and privatization (P); Access to urban services and housing (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/11/1997                                     Effective: 06/09/1999                06/09/1999
     Appraisal: 06/01/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 01/12/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF CROATIA/CROATIAN RAILWAYS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Sunja Kim                                      Enn Vasur
ICR Primary Author:             Agnieszka Grudzinska; Sati
                                Achath; Madhu Nair; Yash Pal
                                Kedia


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the US$183 million project (Loan US$101 million) was to modernize and restructure
Hrvatske Zeljeznice (HZ) in order to diminish its deficit and thus also its financial burden on the
government budget while creating a company adapted to a competitive transport market.

The project objective was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Croatia
(Document No.14088-HR, April 04, 1995), as discussed by the Board on May 6, 1998. This strategy
emphasized: (i) strengthening public sector management by increasing efficiency and reducing fiscal
expenditures; and (ii) promoting infrastructure and energy development as a basis for growth.

The project incorporated the following lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects in the
transport sector in Croatia: (i) clear goals must be agreed regarding reduction of non-commercial functions
of the railways and the staff employed by the railways. Most transport projects had achieved their physical
objectives, but had difficulties in achieving the financial objectives, especially in the railway sector, in the
pre-independence projects. Although usually successfully completed, economically justified and having
resulted in operational improvements, the railway projects were only partly successful in improving
railway's financial performance. This was partly because of an underlying difference of view between the
Government of the former Yugoslavia and the Bank about the function of the railways (the Government
viewed the railways as serving important non-commercial functions which required continued
subsidization) and partly because of the continuing bureaucratic culture which limited operational
improvement, reluctance to reduce staff, and almost no incentives for increasing revenues or reducing
expenditure; (ii) the implementing agency should be directly responsible for all implementation aspects of
the project components, including procurement and disbursements; and (iii) the implementation unit should
be fully staffed before loan effectiveness.

The project envisioned the following benefits from the project: (i) an improved financial situation for HZ
through productivity increases and focus on core businesses, which will translate into a decreased burden
on the Government's budget; (ii) beginning of the transformation of HZ into a commercially viable
company in a market economy; (iii) reduced maintenance costs and derailment risks through the
modernization of HZ's physical assets; (iv) higher productivity for HZ and lower labor costs resulting from
staff retrenchment; (v) preparedness of HZ to meet the traffic demand foreseen in the medium-term, by
increasing HZ services reliability, productivity and quality, and enabling HZ to provide services more
adapted to the actual market requirement; and (vi) contribution to better environmental conditions in
Croatia, resulting from modernized facilities and rolling stock, the same being less polluting than the
present ones.

The objective was important to the country's economic and social development, especially in terms of
reducing the government budget for railways. The objective was also important for HZ as the
Government's financial support to the HZ was diminishing and becoming irregular and thus the physical
condition of the railway assets was progressively deteriorating. However, the project objective, as stated,
was subject to varied interpretation by the Borrower and HZ on one side and the Bank and EBRD on the
other. In particular, the Government and HZ chose to interpret the stated objective "to modernize" and to
adapt "to a competitive transport market" to mean the creation of a modern high-speed, high-technology
railway, despite the contradiction between such interpretation and the objective of reducing the deficit. In
retrospect, the project objective should have more clearly emphasized the priority of reducing the fiscal
burden.




                                                     - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of seven components, all related to achieving the project's objective. HZ had
reasonable technical, administrative and financial capacity for successful implementation of these
components. Following is a description of the project's components.

Component 1: Track Renewal and Maintenance of Core Routes: (US$24.2 million: 13% of the total
project cost)

The project proposed a minimum level of track renewal of the "core" routes, which if not undertaken,
would have jeopardized HZ's efforts to improve its financial and commercial performance, as a worsening
track condition would have resulted in rerouting of part or all of the existing profitable transit traffic and
would have strongly diminished the prospects of new traffic. The project included the provision of: (i)
25,000 tons of rails, (ii) base plates and ring pads; (iii) components for the rehabilitation of 200 turnouts,
(iv) 3-track maintenance cars; (v) a butt-welding machine; and (vi) miscellaneous track maintenance
equipment and spare parts for rehabilitation of track maintenance equipment.

Component 2 Rehabilitation of Traction Units and Spare Parts: (US$57.8 million: 31% of the total
project cost)

The project provided for rehabilitation and modernization of 40 mainline locomotives (30 diesel and 10
electric) and provision of additional spare parts (which would allow heavy repairs on 50 additional main
line diesel locomotives and daily maintenance of the 80 rehabilitated diesel locomotives over a period of
five years), as well as for the modernization of six Electric Multiple Units (EMUs). The project aimed at
improving the daily availability of the rehabilitated traction units to reach at least 80 percent.

Component 3: Conversion of Freight Wagons: (US$3.0 million: 2% of the total project cost)

The freight wagon fleet was too large for prevailing requirements and there was a lack of suitable wagons.
The project financed the conversion of 100 standard covered 2-axle wagons to provide full side access and
strengthened floors for pallets. The conversion of these wagons would allow HZ to increase its presence on
revenue generating segments of the freight transport market.

Component 4: Rehabilitation of Passenger Coaches: (US$10.0 million: 5% of the total project cost)

The project included provision for the rehabilitation and modernization of 120 coaches for international and
inter-regional services. This rehabilitation would preserve the availability of passenger cars for service
through overhaul of these coaches to ensure that they remain serviceable for the years to come, with lower
maintenance costs and improved comfort, which would provide the basis for a passenger tariff increase.

Component 5: Environment Protection: (US$1.6 million: 1% of the total project cost)

The project aimed to: (i) mitigate potential negative impacts on the environment resulting directly from
program activities (such as closure of workshops, and fueling stations); and (ii) modernize, up to adopted
environmental standards, those HZ facilities and activities, which were considered as having the worst
effects on the environment. Modernization included rolling stock rehabilitation (under the investment
component of the program), improved water pre-treatment and collection to reduce used water pollution,



                                                      - 3 -

supply of oil foils, construction of recycling yards and depots for fuel supply.

Component 6: Severance Payment: (US$82.4 million: 46% of the total project cost)

Two specific components were designed as part of the Staff Retrenchment Program in order to minimize
the social impact of adjustment. The first one was a severance payment component, which would
compensate each redundant staff in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and Croatian Labor Law on
severance payment; and (ii) the agreement reached by HZ to get, for each of its redundant staff, double of
minimum severance payment per year of employment. In addition, the second component provided support
to laid-off staff in terms of training based on regional employment opportunities, job searching and
outplacement.

Component 7: Efficiency Improvement: (US$3.0 million: 2% of the total project cost)

The implementation of efficiency improvement measures at the company's management and organizational
levels was a key element in ensuring the success of project implementation. Improvements were required in:
(i) the management area, including the company's organizational structure, the decision-making processes,
allocations of responsibilities and preparation of business plans; (ii) the handling of non-core businesses
and uneconomic services; (iii) the financial management systems; (iv) the development of information
systems; and (v) work processes and productivity. In this respect, full time consultant services were to be
provided to HZ management and the restructuring unit during the first two years of project implementation.
In addition, training would be provided to: (i) HZ senior staff, principally in the areas of management,
marketing, performance evaluation, planning and commercial business approaches; and (ii) HZ staff, to
improve working methods and to introduce them to accountability and results driven management.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Loan Agreement was amended in August 2001 to provide for information technology systems not
provided for in the original Loan Agreement.          To make the funds available, some items of track
maintenance equipment and locomotive spare parts were dropped. The Loan Agreement was amended in
July 2003 to add ticket vending machines to Goods Category and increase allocation for track renewal
equipment and passenger coach rehabilitation. The additional allocation was made possible by reallocating
the unallocated amount and reducing the allocation for several items in Goods Category and Consultant
Services Category. An international consulting firm, financed under a bilateral grant money, was engaged
to assist HZ with tackling core issues such as non-economic lines, staff reduction, and privatization of
non-core businesses. This led to some savings in Consultant Services Category. The Loan Agreement was
again amended in April 2004 to increase allocation for track renewal and maintenance, the funds being
made available from the environment category, the funds for which were provided internally by HZ's own
resources together with the government subsidy. The design of the drainage rehabilitation and fuel filling
stations were delayed and sufficient time was not left for the implementing the designs, thus the funds were
provided by HZ to make it easier to hire contractors on HZ's terms.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was an official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The
project's overall quality at entry received a "Marginally Satisfactory" rating from QAG. Since the current
ICR template does not have the capability of rating "Marginally Satisfactory", we had to assign "S" rating.
This comprised Marginally Satisfactory ratings for the Project/Operation's Concept; Objectives and
Approach; Technical and Economic Aspects; Poverty and Social Aspects; Financial Management Aspects;
Institutional Capacity Analysis; Risk Assessment and Sustainability; and Bank Inputs and Processes.
Satisfactory ratings were given to Environmental Aspects and Readiness for Implementation.



                                                      - 4 -

QAG remarked that:

"The major weakness in the project is the absence of a clearly articulated vision of the future of Hrvatske
Zeljeznice (HZ), the related scope of restructuring and reinvestments necessary to get there, and the role of
the restructuring under this project during the transition.

The project did not culminate with an explicit and shared vision between the Bank and the Borrower of the
end goal of reform and a common understanding of the depth and cost of restructuring that would be
necessary to achieve such an ultimate goal. The final choice of a restructuring strategy to support under the
project appears to have been driven more by political expediency than fundamental analysis of the needs of
the railway. In and of itself, this would have been acceptable provided that this project laid the groundwork
for the much more ambitious restructuring dictated by the competitive and financial situation of HZ. In the
Panel's opinion the processes put in place under the project are inadequate to build a strong political
constituency and technical capacity for effective implementation of the limited restructuring measures in the
project let alone to lay the foundations for a much more ambitious program. The project documents fail to
adequately recognize the major political and economic and, ultimately, implementation risks confronted by
the project.

Strengths: There is an undoubted need for the restructuring of a railway that is chronically and heavily
dependent on the national treasury for its operating viability and that faces huge competitive challenges to
its existence as a viable player in the regional transport sector. The project team did an excellent job of
laying some of the institutional foundations for a serious attempt at restructuring the railways. Although
not ultimately a centerpiece of the dialogue with the Borrower and the discussion of strategic choices within
the Bank, the preparation of the project included a detailed development of restructuring options based on a
thorough analysis of the system's capabilities relative to evolving market demand. The fact that this work
featured little in project design is, in the Panel's view, primarily due to failure in oversight and to a lack of
incentives provided to the team to confront hard choices. Specifically, the traditional review processes were
in a state of flux and there appears to have been considerable pressure not to risk the delivery of operations
to Croatia.

Weaknesses: There is a clear disconnect between the project objectives, the knowledge developed about the
relative merits of different strategic options for achieving these objectives and the final choice of a strategy
under the project. The restructuring strategy to be implemented under the project was designed to be
consistent with a ceiling on the level of operating subsidies to the railways under an adjustment operation.
This subsidy target was developed without the benefit of analysis to define the performance potential of the
railways and the actions required to realize such potential. It had the benefit of being politically acceptable
to the Croatians. But it clearly preempted serious discussion of the other restructuring scenarios that were
developed during project preparation and based upon detailed technical and market studies. These scenarios
presented a clear view of the end goal of reform of the railway and the depth of restructuring necessary to
achieve it.

Bank Processes. This operation was prepared during a state of considerable flux in the organization of the
ECA Region. There was little oversight of the evolving quality of the operation. While this failure was
partly mitigated by the presence of an experienced Team Leader, the team nonetheless faced tough choices
as to the strategic options to advance and the composition of Bank assistance best aligned with a chosen
option. The team would have been helped considerably if there were more discussion and managerial
involvement more upstream in the preparation process. As it is, by the time the internal organizational
issues were adequately resolved, this project was well advanced and it became difficult to make substantive


                                                        - 5 -

changes to its design."

The Regional response to QAG Review was the following:

"The project was designed during a very difficult period of country relationships when major Bank
shareholders did not support lending to Croatia due to the government's reluctance to adhere to the Dayton
Peace Agreement. During this period it was difficult for sector and country management to fully assess
Croatia's commitment to the railway reform program. The Project Team Leader (PTL) expressed full
confidence in the commitment to the reform program by the Croatian railway management. The PTL felt
strongly that the project was well prepared and ready for implementation.

Both sector and country management was concerned about the status of preparation, and lack of up-front
action. Sector management sought advice of outside reviewers. Guidance received was conflicted, with
several reviewers insisting that a tougher and more defined program was needed. Other advisors endorsed
the gradual and flexible approach adopted by the business plan. Sector and country management
significantly tightened the program during negotiations and agreed to submit project for Board approval.

The QAG report wrongly reflects positions of country and sector management. Country management did
not want to have "an operation that could be delivered quickly to start addressing fiscal reform issues", as
stated in the report. Country management did not exercise pressure to deliver this project to the Board. To
the contrary, country management received pressure from shareholders not to submit projects for Croatia to
the Board due to political reasons. The assertion of the QAG report that "undue pressures by country
management undermined solid preparation of an investment operation" is wrong.

Country management felt uneasy about the quality of preparation of the project and: i) requested change of
PTL at appraisal stage; and ii) requested active involvement by sector management in quality control.
Sector management provided careful quality control at and after appraisal stage and made significant
improvements to the project. Sector management decided to change PTL only after Board approval to
assure continuity in project preparation. In the ECA matrix structure, quality control of project design and
preparation rests with sector management."

In retrospect, the ICR agrees with the QAG judgment on overall quality at entry. As mentioned in Section
3.1, the project design did not take note of the varied interpretation of project objective and made some
simplistic assumptions, which did not take into account the significant political capital required to
implement the project as designed. In particular:

(a)     the commitment of the Government towards staff reduction and discontinuation of loss-making
passenger services became diluted during the initial stage of project implementation, partly due to a fragile
majority enjoyed by the then-Government and its fear of losing the elections;
(b)       the Parliament and the local authorities were not prepared to face the discontinuation of
loss-making passenger services;
(c)     the Government, while wishing the losses of HZ to come down, made no effort to dissuade HZ
from making heavy investment in high speed technology; in fact made intensive modernization a
Government policy for the transport sector.

However, according to the ICR team, the Quality at Entry was still marginally satisfactory based on the
following factors:

    (i) The project objective was consistent with the CAS and met the critical needs of Croatia's railway



                                                    - 6 -

    sector.

    (ii) Extensive discussions were held with the trade unions during project preparation in order to explain
    the project rationale and exchange views on the solutions proposed to resolve the difficult issues facing
    HZ.

    (iii) Local governments had been informed of the services reduction component of the project, and
    negotiations were held with HZ during the preparation of proposals on how to handle service
    reductions. These proposals were eventually submitted to the Government for approval. Consultants
    were engaged to propose a variety of measures to increase productivity, reconfigure passenger services,
    and reduce staff.

    (iv) The Ministry of Sea, Transport, Tourism, and Development, (MSTTD), (formerly known as the
    Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, and Communications ­MMATC) as the Ministry in charge of
    HZ activities, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as well as the Office for Restructuring and Economics of
    State Owned Enterprises were deeply involved in the preparation of the project through consultations
    and reviews. The Croatian Office for Employment was mainly involved on an information-sharing
    basis.


    (v) During project preparation, an alternative project design was considered which included an outright
    privatization of the company. The project preparation team made a correct decision to pursue a more
    gradual approach. In retrospect, it is even more clear that, a rapid and radical privatization was not
    acceptable politically and that there was little prospect of private investments in HZ in its prevailing
    condition.

In addition to the above considerations, it is important to note that the direct engagement of the Bank and
other donor partners with the Government throughout the project has led to much better outcomes and
reform progress than would have been the case without the project. A tough stance in the beginning is
unlikely to have yielded better results. Railway restructuring is a complex operation and the accompanying
staff reduction is a painful process, where the cost of waiting for every single factor to turn right before
engaging can prove very high.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project objectives were partially achieved. If we had the capability of the six-scale rating, we
would have rated the actual outcome 'Moderately Satisfactory'. The project has not achieved its stated
objectives fully due mainly to lack of serious sector policy reform. However, without the project, the
financial situation of the Croatian railways would have been much worse. The project contributed to
developing a coherent restructuring program and maintaining the policy dialogue, but was not able to
advance much needed policy reforms on its own. Toward the end of the project implementation, the PAL
played a significant role in furthering the reform of the railways sector. Although during most of the six
years of project period, achievement of Development Objective was rated as `Unsatisfactory', the rating
thus improved by the end of the project due to significant progress with the reforms. The following are
some key outcomes to which the project contributed:

(i)  The Railway Law, an important step forward in the reform process, has been enacted and its
implementation, though initially delayed, is expected to start in 2006;
(ii) Basic concepts of restructuring have been accepted by the Government and HZ as demonstrated in the



                                                     - 7 -

medium-term restructuring plan, adopted by the Government and currently under implementation by HZ;
(iii) All of HZ's non-core businesses were separated and are now being prepared for privatization;
(iv) Despite the real-term increase in railways wages to compensate for the past stagnation and failure to
reduce passenger services, Government's operating budget support to HZ as a percentage of GDP has not
increased;
(v) Freight traffic (in net ton km) has increased by 48% in the last five years (2000-2004), and is expected
to continue growing at an annual rate of 5% in the next five years.

The project facilitated the process of modernizing the Croatian Railways, over and beyond the direct
financing provided by IBRD and EBRD. During the project period, significant investments were made in
track renewal and maintenance, modernization and remanufacture of locomotives, DMUs, EMUs, and
rolling stock, automation of passenger ticketing systems, and upgrading of IT systems. The overall level of
investments in infrastructure in 2004 was US$175 million and is estimated to reach US$230 million, in
2005. Major part of those funds was used for rehabilitation of corridor lines, while the rest of the funds
was used for program of development activities for rail infrastructure in Zagreb, local and regional lines.
The availability and reliability of operating assets and infrastructure improved during the project period as
the direct result of these investments, although the full impact is expected to be realized in future years.

Significant progress has been achieved in restructuring the railways. The staff reduction targets as
established under the project have been achieved: between 1998 and June 30, 2005, HZ reduced its staff by
8,429 on a net basis, from 22,908 to 14,479, with the majority of staff reductions (nearly 60%) achieved
through a well executed voluntary and involuntary retrenchment program. HZ has made major progress in
streamlining its operations through spin-off of non-core businesses. During the project implementation
period, HZ created 9 new subsidiaries making a total of 16 subsidiaries, which are now earning about one
third of their revenue from outside of HZ. All subsidiaries are scheduled to be privatized and the process is
expected to commence shortly with three subsidiaries slated for privatization in 2006, followed by at least
another seven in 2007. There has also been some progress in restructuring the core business. In accordance
with the EU directives and in preparation for the actual separation, HZ has already started maintaining
separate accounts for the infrastructure, and freight and passenger services. That separation has led to a
bigger focus on the profitability of each business and has laid the ground for more effective cost control.
The implementation of the Railways Law in January 2006 will establish separate companies for the
infrastructure, freight and passenger businesses, and for the locomotives and rolling stock holding. This is
expected to lead to improved accountability for performance, more autonomy and management
effectiveness, reduced cross subsidization, and eventually improved profitability for the whole system.
Although the operating companies (freight and passenger) would be initially 100% owned by the
Government, a consensus is emerging that the freight business will eventually be privatized. McKinsey &
Co, financed under the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), is currently assisting HZ
and MSTTD with refining the restructuring model, formulating a restructuring implementation strategy,
developing a staff reduction strategy both in the context of restructuring as well as efficiency improvements
and rationalization of operations, and facilitating privatization of non-core business including necessary
regulatory and legislative steps.

The project has not achieved its stated objective of reducing railways financial burden on the budget:
Government support for HZ is projected to reach HRK 3.1 billion, or 1.4% of GDP in 2005. This level of
financial support would make it difficult for the Government to achieve its target of reducing the fiscal
deficit to less than 3% of the GDP in preparation for the accession to EU. At the end-December 2005, the
Government is planning to adopt a medium-term railway restructuring plan to improve HZ's productivity
and financial performance and consequently to reduce its heavy dependence on financial support from the
budget. The implementation of the medium-term plan, to be developed with the assistance of the


                                                      - 8 -

PPIAF-funded consultancy mentioned above, is expected to commence in January 2006. HZ's financial
deficit remained high due to the following: i) a decision to bring railways up to the national average, which
required approximately 40% salary increases in real terms and counteracted most of the gains of staff
reduction; ii) additional spending in order to catch up with the significant backlog of maintenance; (iii)
contrary to the Bank's advice, HZ, with the approval of the Government, embarked on an expensive plan
for introducing high-speed trains on the Zagreb-Split section, thus vastly increasing the level of investment
and cost of operation and maintenance.

However, the most important reason for not meeting the project objective of reducing the financial losses
was the failure to discontinue loss-making passenger services and branch lines. It is important to note,
however, that persistent efforts were made under the project to achieve this objective. HZ's pilot proposal
for the closure of a few lines was never approved by the Parliament. Instead, the Parliament eventually
approved a five-year process, by which responsibility for regional passenger services would be transferred
to the local authorities. The local authorities are expected to gradually takeover the financing of the
services while the central Government will remain responsible for the rehabilitation of the infrastructure.
HZ has already initiated the dialogue with a number of local authorities but with limited success so far. In
part due to the above process, there has been very little progress with reaching transparent public service
obligation agreements between HZ and the Government.             Even though the Government is providing
substantial financial support to HZ for operating the passenger services, the financial support is not based
on any specific formula or contract. The Government has been reluctant to sign PSO contracts due to the
following reasons: (a) the MOF considers the current financial support requirements too high and would
like to see improved operating efficiency before committing to a contract; and (b) the Central Government
wants the local authorities to take responsibility for supporting regional passenger services.

HZ's operating performance in 2005 and onwards will continue to improve based on the following actions
envisioned by HZ Management: (a) conducting intensive studies to identify further staff surplus (b)
defining clear targets for the reduction of the working ratio to 150-170% in 2007; (c) implementing
recommendations of a locomotive and rolling stock productivity study, which suggests ways to increase
productivity of the assets and thus reduce operating and maintenance costs

Progress has been made in increasing the competitiveness of HZ. After the initial drop in traffic due to
factors described below (see section 5.1), in the period 2000-2004, the freight traffic increased by
approximately 19% in tons, and 48% in net ton km. HZ's freight traffic (in net ton km) is expected to
increase by 5% in the next five years. Passenger traffic increased during 2000-2004 by 20% in number of
passengers but only 7% in passenger km because of growing number of local and suburban passengers for
short distance. Passenger traffic is also forecast to increase in the next five years, by an annual rate of 3%
in passenger km. In collaboration with other regional railway companies, since 2004 HZ has engaged in
the preparation of joint products designed to increase the railways share of regional traffic. During the
course of the projects, HZ implemented a number of efficiency improvement and institutional strengthening
measures (described in under points 4.2 Output by Component and 4.5 Institutional Development Impact
below) which laid necessary foundations for continuing improvements in competitiveness.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Track Renewal and Maintenance of Core Routes

The project financed: (i) the rehabilitation of 37 km of track on the Dugo Selo-Vrbovec-Krizevci section of
the Vb Corridor. The rehabilitation was successfully carried out and finalised by mid 2003; and (ii) track
maintenance machines, which included: 11 track maintenance cars, a set of track tamping machines, a
wagon for transport of turnouts and a tracklayer machine and components for the butt-welding plant. All



                                                      - 9 -

the procured mechanisation activities considerably improved capacities and track maintenance.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 2 Rehabilitation of Traction Units and Spare Parts

The project provided for rehabilitation and modernization of traction units and spare parts, including: (i)
spare parts for the overhaul and current maintenance of diesel locomotives, and 30 locomotives and normal
current maintenance for all diesel locomotives in HZ's locomotive fleet; and (ii) the modernization of 20
diesel locomotives series 2062, the modernization of 15 electric locomotives series 1141, the procurement
of spare parts for the modernization of 3 EMUs series 6111, 8 DMUs series 7121 and 15 shunting
locomotives series 2132. These activities were very successfully concluded in 2002 and 2003.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 3: Conversion of Freight Wagons

The project financed the procurement of equipment and material for the conversion of 130 worn-out 2-axle
wagons type Gbs-z and RS-z into standard wagons type Hbis-z and Rils-z, which provide full side access
and strengthened floors for pallets. The delivery of the goods and the conversion of these wagons were
completed in 2003. All the wagons are in use with high availability, thereby enabling HZ to increase its
presence on revenue generating segments of the freight transport market.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 4: Rehabilitation of Passenger Coaches

The project included provision for the rehabilitation and modernization of 38 coaches (12 type Aeelt and 26
type Bee) for international and inter-regional services. The last coach was delivered in May 2005 and since
then all 38 coaches are in use with high availability. This rehabilitation preserved the availability of
passenger coaches for service and will ensure that they remain serviceable for the years to come, with lower
maintenance costs and improved comfort.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 5: Environment Protection:

During 2000-2004, HZ spent about HRK 5.0 million of its own resources on various environment-related
activities, the main ones being as follows (See Section 3.4):

§        Elaboration of new Regulations for all kinds of waste from technological processes and waste
water treatment processes for all technological units on HZ territory. Elaboration of Regulations for
station location; Rijeka, Zagreb shunting station, Zagreb main station

§        Elaboration of Regulations for treatment of waste (Regulation 620)

§        Elaboration of Guidelines for the Management of the Cadastre of Emissions into the Environment
at HZ (Regulation 621)




                                                    - 10 -

§        Operative plans of intervention measures in case of unexpected pollution of water systems for all
technological units on HZ territory (Osijek, Pula, Split, Rijeka, Varazdin, Vinkovci, Karlovac, Knin,
Koprivnica, Zagreb shunting station and Zagreb main station) have been updated

§        Guidelines on the operation and maintenance of drainage facilities and devices for the treatment of
waste water for all technological units on HZ territory have been updated

§        Supervision of obligations of Croatian Railways technological units according to legal provisions
has been carried out.

§        The drawing up of the Design documentation for the Rehabilitation of the drainage systems and
devices for processing liquid waste.

§        The rehabilitation and reconstruction of the drainage system and equipment for processing liquid
waste has been carried out for: Zagreb shunting station; Vinkovci; Zabok; Rijeka

§        The drawing up of the Study for the acquisition of water management permits and the necessary
technical documentation for the locations of: Zagreb shunting station, Zagreb main station, Bjelovar,
Varazdin, Koprivnica, Rijeka, Virovitica, Vinkovci, Moravice, Krizevci, Karlovac, Knin, Botovo, Split,
Novska, Pula, Zabok, Osijek.

§        Works arising from the permission orders of the acquired water management permits and
inspector's supervision have been realized under Rehabilitation construction.

§        Improvements in regard to treating waste from technological procedures. Approximately 100
pieces of containers for hazardous and non-hazardous waste have been procured.

§        The procurement and mounting of flow gauges on 12 testing shafts of connectors of internal
drainage systems into public drainage systems on Croatian Railways territory.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 6: Severance Payment:

The program for the reduction in the number of employees consisted of severance payments, which were
paid as compensation to employees in accordance with the Bank guidelines, domestic laws and Decisions of
the HZ Management. Under this approach, from 1998 to June 2005, Croatian Railways reduced their
number of staff by 8,429. Of this number, 3,995 employees were partially financed from the Bank funds
(43%) and the rest (57%) from the State Budget. The Bank also financed severance payments for 787
employees from HZ subsidiaries.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 7: Efficiency Improvement

The implementation of efficiency improvement measures at the company's management and organizational
levels ensured the success of project implementation. Improvements were made
in: (i) the management area, including the company's organizational structure, decision-making processes,
allocations of responsibilities and preparation of business plans; (ii) the handling of non-core businesses


                                                    - 11 -

and uneconomic services; (iii) the financial management systems; (iv) the development of information
systems; and (v) work processes and productivity. In this respect, full time consultant services were
provided to HZ management and the restructuring unit during the first two years of project implementation.


In addition, training was provided to HZ staff at the International Training Centre of the ILO in Torino as
follows: (i) in 2000, an employee in the Restructuring Project Unit in HZ, attended the seminar for the
procurement of IT equipment; (ii) in 2002, some of the relevant staff in HZ attended the seminar for
Equipment Procurement Management according to World Bank procedures; and (iii) in 2004, an employee
in the Restructuring Project Unit in HZ, attended the seminar for Works Procurement Management based
on the Bank procedures.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic analysis has been undertaken on the basis of comparing the results under the "With project" and
"Without project" scenarios, the latter based on lower investment and no pressure to reduce staff. The
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is currently estimated at 45% and NPV at HRK 1,233 million, which is
lower than the 54% ERR and NPV of HRK 2,157 million estimated at appraisal but still satisfactory. The
detailed assumptions and calculations for ERR and FRR can be found in Annex 3.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at 28% compared with a FRR of 26% calculated at
appraisal. The NPV is estimated at HRK 750 million compared to HRK 684 million of appraisal estimates.
The high FRR is driven by significant increases in staff salaries in real terms ­ without the project-driven
retrenchment, HZ financial losses would have been significantly worse. Furthermore, staff reductions are
very likely to continue contributing to further improvements in HZ's financial performance.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact is rated Modest based on the following factors:

Rolling Business Plan. At the operating level, HZ has developed a culture of long-term planning and the
5-year rolling business plans have become a regular part of its planning process. The planning process has
resulted in the development of skills in various departments in the areas of forecasting, costing, operations
planning, and operations optimization. Despite this progress, HZ recognizes that there is considerable
room for improvement in this area and further strengthening is highly likely.

The Staff Retrenchment Process and the Mobility Centers. In 2001, four mobility centers staffed with
18 counselors were created in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, and Vinkovci to assist redundant employees of
Croatian Railways and its subsidiaries with the process of finding an alternative employment.             HZ
demonstrated high commitment to this program spending  1 million of its own resources for operation of
the mobility centers, in addition to a modest contribution from the state budget (22,000). A program for
an internal employment agency was set in motion with the aim of enabling greater internal mobility of the
work force, including all HZ's subsidiaries. A complementary program entitled "MC Incubator" was
focused on creating new jobs inside the HZ system to engage the now unproductive staff from the surplus
list awaiting retrenchment. However, the utility rate of these centers was disappointingly low as the
majority of the retrenched staff opted to get their severance package rather than seeking an alternative
employment. HZ closed the Mobility Centers in December 2004 as the rate of staff retrenchment had fallen
but absorbed key staff in order to maintain the residual activities and experience gained in the process. The



                                                    - 12 -

retrenchment process as implemented under the project has built cooperative relations with the unions and
smoothed the way for further staff retrenchments in the future.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The financial situation of HZ continued to deteriorate in 1999 due, in part, to difficult external conditions
such as the Kosovo crisis which led to a GDP decline by 2% and an increase in inflation. The freight
traffic fell 3% and average traffic unit revenue decreased by 12-14%. The Government was not able to
close any loss-making passenger services or branch lines, due to political opposition from the Parliament.
Since 2000, traffic volume has continued to increase.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite the overall satisfactory performance of the Government (see section 7.4), more decisive actions in
the following areas would have contributed to higher outcomes:

The Implementation of the Railway Legislation. The Railway Law, passed by the Parliament in July
2003, was expected to come into force on January 1, 2005 and to be preceded the restructuring of HZ
including the separation of infrastructure, freight and passenger services. However, the budget proposal
for 2004, accepted by the new Government had reduced the amount of subsidies to HZ and at the same
time, eliminated the fuel taxation as a dedicated source for railway infrastructure financing.              These
decisions of the Government cut the financial basis needed for the implementation of the Croatian Railways
Restructuring and Modernization Program.         Consequently, the Government accepted to postpone the
Program as well as the implementation of the Law for one year.

Privatization of Non-Core Subsidiaries. It was not clear whether the generic privatization law for the
privatization of public sector entities was also applicable to the subsidiaries of HZ. MSTTD did not
initially pursue a clarification of the existing Privatization Law, which would have provided a legal basis
for the immediate privatization of the non-core subsidiary companies. Although the clarification has since
been obtained, the privatization of subsidiaries had to be delayed until 2006.

Fiscal Discipline and Public Service Obligation (PSO). The MOF could also have forced some hard
constraints on capital expenditure and assisted HZ in controlling the expenditure and improving the
working ratio. The Government's readiness to support a very ambitious modernization program for the
railways and to finance the deficit in general also left little incentive for HZ to accelerate the staff reduction
program and take other measures for reducing deficit. There has also been no progress with negotiating
and signing PSO agreements as explained in section 4.1 above.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
HZ was and is still keen to maintain control of some of the non-core subsidiaries and to absorb the
proceeds from the privatization of all subsidiaries. The reluctance to relinquish control is explained by the
management by the fear that some of the non-core subsidiaries may strive to extract monopoly rents from
HZ after becoming independent. In some cases such anxiety is justified, as some of the subsidiaries mix
core, and strategically significant for HZ, functions with non-core activities. However, this issue could be
resolved by separating and re-integrating with HZ some of these core activities during the divestiture
process, rather than slowing down the entire process of separation and privatization of non-core
subsidiaries. In other cases, when the non-core subsidiary may enjoy a monopolistic position in the short to
medium term, medium (up to three-year) term contracts can be used to protect HZ's commercial interests
until the markets become more competitive.




                                                     - 13 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was about US$170.6 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$183.0
million, due to the change in the exchange rate US$/EUR in the course of the project.

The Bank financed US$94.4 million (55.5%), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) financed US$35.0 million (20.5%), and the HZ contributed US$ 40.6 million equivalent in local
costs (24%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The results of the project are sustainable. In particular, HZ will continue to benefit from the well
implemented retrenchment program and lessons learned during its implementation. The Government and
HZ have agreed that the Business Plan for 2006-2010 would have detailed strategies and plans for the
restructuring of HZ pertaining to: privatization of HZ's subsidiaries and core businesses; closure,
discontinuation, or curtailment of the uneconomic lines and services; implementation of the Railway Law;
and staff reduction. The Bank has mobilized grant funds under PPIAF to finance external consultants to
help develop these detailed plans and strategies. The PPIAF will allow the Bank to continue with the
dialogue after the closure of the on-going project. The Bank also financed international consultants to assist
HZ with a study to determine the optimal levels of investment based on cost-benefit analysis.

Railways reform is also included in the series of three PALs, the preparation of which started in mid 2004.
Under the PAL program, the Bank is following up with the Government and HZ to keep the reform
momentum, in particular with regard to improving financial performance of HZ and privatization of
non-core subsidiaries. The Government and HZ have committed themselves to improving the working ratio
to 220% by the end of 2005, 190% by the end of 2006, and 150-170% by the end of 2007 through staff
retrenchment, restructuirng and productivity improvements. The restructuring strategy developed under the
PPIAF grant mentioned above will assist in reaching these targets.

On December 15, 2005, the Parliament passed the law necessary to proceed with the separation of
infrastructure from operations as required by EU directives. The new law will be implemented in 2006.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

No transition to regular operations is needed, as the railways have continued to operate throughout the
project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory.

On one hand, the Bank's presence and support contributed to the development of a coherent restructuring
program. The Bank was able to provide a reasonable framework as well as adequate tools to prepare a
program which would permit the restoration of HZ financial viability with lower Government contributions.
The presence of the Bank significantly contributed to the fact that market-oriented principles had been
accepted by the Government as the principles to be followed in the preparation of this program. The Bank
had a strong role in the increasing quality and realism of HZ business plans, and was recognized as the



                                                    - 14 -

independent authority which would assess the quality of future business plans over the life of the project.
In addition, given the size of the investments required by the implementation of the program, the loan had
already provided and continued to provide a strong incentive for the Borrower to comply with the
requirements of the program. Finally, through the Bank's involvement in this program, grants from Japan
and Canada in the amount of almost US$1 million for project preparation, and a US$0.5 million grant from
the Government of the Netherlands for assistance in project implementation were arranged, in addition to
parallel project financing from the EBRD in the amount of US$35 million.

On the other hand, as mentioned in Section 3.5 and as opined by the QAG Panel, the Bank could have
made more efforts to ensure that: (i) the Government was fully committed to project objective; (ii) quality
of design took into consideration the amount of political capital required to implement both a far reaching
staff retrenchment program and discontinue loss making passenger services; and (iii) the target working
ratio was developed with in-depth analysis of the performance potential of the railways and the actions
required to realize such potential.

While there is no doubt that better preparation would have yielded better project results, one has to balance
the marginal improvements in quality and the additional time required for preparation. The political
situation in Croatia was quite volatile and delaying the project in order to build stronger commitment from
the Government could have easily backfired.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.      The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. During supervision, the task team tried to overcome the drawbacks of project design. Over the
six years of project implementation, there were 11 supervision missions, with an average of about two
missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive. Review teams included
specialists in railways, financial analysis, project management, financial management, and procurement.
External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.

Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and project implementation progress was adequately reported;
Implementation problems were identified early and addressed proactively. Regular discussions were held
with MOF, line ministries, and HZ. The Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance
of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. The
Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice and the
follow-up on agreed actions were mostly adequate.          Loan covenants and remedies were enforced
effectively.

The Bank Team effectively balanced the need to urge the Management to take some hard decisions in order
to cut costs and reduce the financial deficit with the objective to maintain a trusting relationship with the
Management. Without an adequate relationship the progress of implementation would likely have stalled.
The Bank Team did succeed in building a constructive relationship with both the new and old
managements.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                    - 15 -

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the
whole of the project preparation cycle, and in the numerous exchanges of letters between the Bank and the
Prime Minister and the Minister of Sea, Transport, Tourism and Development, both HZ and the
Government had shown strong commitment to the project. The project documents produced during project
preparation were reviewed and agreed to in principle by both the Government and Parliament, and had also
been extensively discussed with the trade unions and in the media. Furthermore, each preparation mission
was conditioned on the Croatian authorities taking specific actions, as identified in the Action Plan, to
demonstrate Croatia's commitment to this project.

The actions taken on the Croatian side, included: (i) reduction of staff by about 2,000 in 1998; (ii)
reduction of uneconomic services by 700,000 passenger train kms in the 1998-99 timetable; (iii) first
organizational changes in HZ implemented on March 1, 1998; (iv) a resolution of 32 percent of HZ
arrears; (v) a decision to fully implement the Law on Croatian Railways as of January 1, 1999; and (vi) the
creation of a working group at the MMATC level to clarify and interpret the Law on Croatian Railways.
The Croatian authorities had, in a Letter of Development Policy, confirmed their commitment to HZ
modernization and restructuring, and agreed to the series of annual benchmarks to be reached over the
project implementation period, as proposed by the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Moderately Satisfactory. The most important reason for not meeting the project development objective of
reducing the financial losses was the failure to discontinue loss-making passenger services and branch lines.
Persistent efforts were made under the project to achieve this objective by the Ministry and HZ. The pilot
proposal for the closure of non-economic lines was not approved by the Parliament. Instead, the Parliament
eventually approved a five-year process by which responsibility for regional passenger services would be
transferred to the local authorities. During implementation, a number of differences in opinions emerged
between the Bank and the Borrower.          These differences pertained to the level of investments, track
standards, hiring of new staff, and slower than initially envisioned rate of retrenchment, but genuine effort
was made by the Borrower to address and resolve such differences. The HZ's Management was keen on
getting and implementing the Bank's advice and to meet the Project targets. The Ministry of Transport
attended key mission meetings and took the opinions of the Bank seriously.

The Ministry of Transport could have done better in terms of scrutinizing HZ's Business Plans, setting
guidelines for the track standards, assisting in the analysis of the passenger services and finalization of
PSO contracts, establishing clear norms for the financing of infrastructure, reviewing HZ's efforts to
improve productivity and operating efficiency, putting pressure on and assisting in the privatization of
subsidiaries. However, the Ministry had seriously limited capacity and depended upon the Supervisory
Board to perform all the above-mentioned functions. The Bank suggested that the loan funds be used to
engage consultants but there was a marked reluctance to use loan funds for technical assistance.

The project was declared a problem project soon after effectiveness because of delays on the part of the
Government and HZ in preparing and initiating implementation of programs which included: (a)
involuntary staff separations; (b) service reductions and line closures, or the introduction of Public Service
Obligation (PSO) payments; and (c) privatization of HZ subsidiaries. Consequently, no procurement action
other than items already identified at that point of time was allowed to be taken for the first two years. This
eventually resulted in the extension of the closing date.

The project's closing date was extended three times, and it was finally closed on June 30, 2005, two years
later than originally planned. The project was first extended for a period of one year, from June 30, 2003
to June 30, 2004, in order to: (i) compensate for the delay at the start of the project and permit the



                                                      - 16 -

completion of all programmed procurements as well as staff retrenchments; (ii) ensure further reduction of
staff, improve the working ratio, strengthen project outcomes, and advance the newly developed objectives
of restructuring the railways and deal with passenger services and preparing the subsidiary companies for
privatization; and (iii) continue the dialogue with HZ management to make the business like, professional
and commercial management culture, a durable feature of the railways.

 The closing date was extended for the second time by six more months to December 31, 2004 in order to
 enable HZ to complete the procurement of the urgently needed track maintenance machines and the Bank
 team to continue focusing on railway reforms. The project was extended for the third time by another six
 months to June 30, 2005 with a limited purpose of enabling HZ to utilize about EUR1.8 million of
 undisbursed amounts in Category 2 (Labor Restructuring) of the Loan to finance about 200 to 300 further
 voluntary layoffs from the HZ.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. HZ's Management was committed to complete the restructuring of the railways and putting
it on a sound financial footing. HZ's Management fully embraced the project objectives and considered the
project as their own rather than being primarily Bank-driven. Representation of the different key ministries
on HZ's Supervisory Board led to harmonization of sectoral and national policies and priorities and a much
better relationship between HZ and the Government but also led to a serious diminishing of the oversight
roles of the Ministries. HZ's management developed a healthy partnership with the labor unions and all
restructuring decisions were preceded by intense consultations with the unions and thus a solid foundation
had been laid for receiving the unions' cooperation in deepening and implementing the restructuring
process.

HZ's Management team was dedicated and professional and was alive to the need for increasing traffic,
improving safety, maintaining good relations with labor, developing cooperative ties with the neighboring
countries, and improving HZ's performance. There was, however, a general adherence to the philosophy of
a modern railway with the accompanying need for high investments. Additionally, the management felt that
infrastructure was the responsibility of the Government and improving the financial performance was
certainly not its top priority.

The compliance with the loan covenants was not fully satisfactory. The targets for the working ratio were
not achieved due to reasons stated above. While HZ also fell short of the debt service coverage target, over
90% of its debt service obligations was covered by the state budget as they pertained to infrastructure
loans. HZ was able to generate sufficient cash to service their share of debt service. The audit reports
were timely and unqualified, and the financial management was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. All project components were
satisfactorily completed.

8. Lessons Learned

The implementation of far reaching restructuring of the railways, particularly when staff retrenchment and
reduction in passenger services is required, is a complex and time consuming process, which requires a
significant amount political capital and can be greatly affected by political instability. The following are
some specific lessons learned from this project:

·        As noted in OED's Country Assistance Evaluation, the Bank should lend to assist Croatia's



                                                    - 17 -

infrastructure development only where government support for reforms is adequate and faulty past policies
are replaced by more appropriate policies, and this change is being implemented in the current CAS, with
investment lending for railways and roads included only in the high case, for which implementation of
sector reforms are a trigger. The Bank and the IMF need to maintain consistent focus and pressure on the
reform in order to assist the Government with weathering political pressures and prevent backsliding. For
this project, the Programmatic Adjustment Loans, which put the railways reform issues at the center of
policy dialogue, were very effective.
·        Consensus with the labor unions helps the retrenchment process. Discussions with the labor
unions should take place at an early stage with exchange of views on the intended restructuring model.
Views of the labor unions must be seriously considered and the labor unions should get a genuine feeling of
participation. It is also essential to go into details of the labor contracts and the assurances that might have
been given in the past. Despite the particularly difficult political and social environment, the retrenchment
process was successful and strengthened the partnership between the management and the labor unions.
·       The requirement to sign and honor PSO agreements for loss making passenger services, ideally
signed with the level of Government most closely linked to the beneficiaries, should precede efforts to
discontinue services; the public opinion needs to be prepared gradually for the curtailment of most
expensive services.

Although there was a genuine commitment to the project by both the Borrower and the Implementation
Agency there were also differences in opinions with the Bank about how to interpret project development
objectives, which affected the implementation.         The following lessons should be addressed in future
projects:

·       It is important for the Bank to get a clear agreement from the Government on the kind of railways
the country wants to have and can afford. The incumbent railways cannot reasonably be expected to drive
the process without strong Government leadership.
·       When higher Government functionaries are made members of the Supervisory Board of the
railways, their position should be treated "ex officio". Otherwise, the presence of these representatives can
seriously diminish the capacities of the Ministries to provide oversight and to provide critical comment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

I. Loan Overview

The year 1999 saw the start of the modernisation and reconstruction of Croatian Railways. The Project
was financed from IBRD loan 4433 HR, EBRD loan 733 and the State Budget. The starting value of the
entire Project expressed in USD amounted to 183 mil. USD. The World Bank participated in this amount
with 101 mil. USD, EBRD with 35 mil. USD and the Republic of Croatia with 47 mil. USD. The World
Bank loan was converted into EUR prior to loan utilisation and this remained the currency in use.

The objective of the Project was the modernisation of the company, in an effort to make it competitive on
the transportation market, to increase revenues and ultimately to ensure that it was less of a burden on the
State Budget.

The Croatian Government, aware of the problems Croatian Railways were having, attempted to create a
framework for the restructuring of the railways and defined an action plan consisting of the main tasks



                                                       - 18 -

performed in the course of the Project.

The Project's tasks were created to solve the following problems:

-        modernise the physical assets of HZ;
-        increase labour productivity;
-        increase traffic volume;
-        decrease staff numbers;
-        solve the issue of non-economic lines;
-        privatise the subsidiaries;
-        increase financial performance and thus decrease the burden on the Budget; and
-        implement the new Railways Act.

II. Components

The financial support for the Project was aimed at seven components which were connected to the
modernisation of assets and the reduction of the labour force. The components were as follows: (i) track
renewal and maintenance of core routes; (ii) rehabilitation of traction and procurement of spare parts; (iii)
conversion of freight wagons; (iv) rehabilitation of passenger coaches; (v) environment protection; (vi)
severance payments; and (vii) efficiency improvement.

All technical, administrative and financial capacities were available for Project implementation.
(i) Track renewal and maintenance of core routes
The complete material for 37 km of track on the Dugo Selo-Vrbovec-Krizevci section of the Vb Corridor
was procured and the rehabilitation was successfully carried out. Machines for track maintenance and
necessary spare parts were procured.

(ii) Rehabilitation of traction and procurement of spare parts
The rehabilitation of traction units was for the most part financed from the EBRD loan and this was very
successfully realised. Availability was significantly increased, as was the reliability of the traction units.
Much valuable experience was acquired in the course of the Project which we shall be able to apply in
similar projects in the future.

(iii) Conversion of freight wagons; and (iv) Rehabilitation of passenger coaches
Capacities, quality and traffic safety were increased with the conversion of freight wagons and the
modernisation of passenger wagons and of course greater comfort was provided to passengers.

(v) Environment protection
Activities in connection to environment protection resulted in the drawing up of various regulations and
guidelines for water protection; the design documentation for the rehabilitation of drainage systems was
drawn up; drainage systems at several stations were reconstructed and rehabilitated; containers for
hazardous and non-hazardous waste were procured; flow gauges for 12 testing shafts were procured, etc.
All this was financed with HZ's own funds.

(vi) Severance payments
The reduction in the number of employees proceeded at a very slow pace; however, the system of severance
payments enabled the departure of a large number of employees without the social upheavals and
disturbances which almost always accompany loss of employment.




                                                    - 19 -

(vii) Efficiency improvement
In the area of efficiency improvement, the training of PIU staff was financed from loan funds in order for
them to acquire knowledge and skills connected to the procurement of goods and services according to
World Bank procedures and auditing services. Also financed under this component was the procurement of
ticket vending machines and the IT system, as well as consulting services linked to the components for the
rehabilitation of tracks and wagons. In regard to the IT system, the procurement of a Unisys 1100/73
central computer with a Clear path system was carried out. The contract included the education of users
and equipment maintenance for a period of seven years. The system serves to monitor and operate the
traffic-transportation technological processes of HZ and according to its technical characteristics it can be
incorporated in the future computer network of HZ with the task of integrating data in the data base in the
field of planning and execution of transportation. The system enables savings on direct operating costs,
improves information systems, organisation of operations and advances operating processes.

The allocation of funds per components, with the agreement of the Bank, changed as the Project
progressed, in accordance with the possibilities and needs of HZ, so that in categories, such as environment
protection, where it was evident that funds were more than sufficient, these funds were transferred in order
for ticket vending machines and track reconstruction equipment to be procured.

The total costs of the project amounted to 170.6 mil. USD. If we rank the expended sums according to
categories then we see that the major part was spent on severance payments (71.4 mil. USD), followed by
rehabilitation of traction units (38.9 mil. USD), track renewal and maintenance (28 mil USD) and
rehabilitation of passenger coaches (22.1 mil. USD). The rest went to ticket vending machines, IT
equipment and consulting services. The difference in funds which occurred in regard to the amount of 183
mil. USD, as was envisaged in the original document, is the result of constant changes in the currency rate
between EUR/USD.

The World Bank loan was spent in full, as was the 35 mil. USD of the EBRD loan. In the severances
category, State Budget funds participated in the amount of 40.4 mil. USD. Expressed in percentages, this is
57% of the total funds for severances as was envisaged in the original document and contract.

III. Conclusion

All Project activities were for the most part realised by the end of 2004 and all that remained in the first
half of 2005 were the payments for severances and auditing of the Project and HZ as a whole. Thus the
financial part of the Project was concluded. All the envisaged funds were expended. As far as social
policies are concerned, the part which was solved through the Project was also concluded but the
programme of severance payments as incentive measures continues from the State Budget.

The Project was extended three times, that is, the implementation of the Project was delayed by two years,
due to delays in the preparation at the start of the Project.

a) Main Objectives
In the course of the Project, the main objectives were not revised; however, we were unable to fully achieve
all the objectives such as staff separation, closure of uneconomic lines and the privatisation of HZ
subsidiaries. These issues are to be solved in the scope of the process of the restructuring of Croatian
Railways which has not stopped with the completion of this Project. On January 1 2006 the new Railways
Act shall take effect which presumes a different organisation, that is, the physical separation of
infrastructure from operations, which has already been accomplished on the accounting basis. Such an
approach has enabled each sector to be more focused on its own revenues and costs.


                                                     - 20 -

HZ has also taken on the obligation of adjusting to EU guidelines and the World Bank is present in this
process through the PAL programme which envisages intensive programmes of structural reform, with the
previous completion of agreed activities, that is, the above mentioned unachieved objectives.

b) Future Activities
In terms of a better approach and execution of all tasks, HZ regularly draws up the yearly and medium
term business plans, analyses and projections and constantly keeps in mind the planned restructuring
objectives. The measuring unit set by the Bank is the working ratio and this year it is at the requested level.
HZ is, in agreement with the Bank and according to PAL conditions, committed to a continued reduction of
the working ratio in the upcoming years.

As for problems concerning uneconomic lines and the cancellation of some passenger services, HZ has
drawn up and sent to the Croatian Government for their approval a draft plan to solve this issue.

The activities connected to the process of the privatisation of the subsidiaries owned by HZ began in 2005.
HZ has drawn up a programme and a schedule according to which these subsidiaries are to be privatised by
the spring of 2006 and a further seven subsidiaries by the end of 2007.

All the improvements which we expected, including the formation of a commercially viable company, the
reduction of maintenance costs, higher productivity and lower labour costs were not achieved at the level
originally conceived at the beginning of the Project. This is the result of continued high maintenance costs
and labour costs which increased despite a reduction of employment levels. Namely, employee wages had
to be equalised with the state average which, in effect, caused labour costs to remain at the same level.
However, now that wages are at a satisfactory level, it is to be expected that all further staff reductions
shall have a direct effect on the reduction of costs and thus the working ratio. HZ is also committed to
further decrease staff numbers and in this effort is using the valuable experience of the Mobility Centre
which, apart from severance payments as a method of resolving surplus employees, offered alternative
employment opportunities. The unions, whose opinions and points of view are seriously taken into
consideration, are also included in the process of reducing staff numbers. Currently at HZ, a new job
classification is underway which should identify surplus staff and thus in due course improve efficiency.

c) Cooperation between Project Partners and Project Evaluation
The cooperation between all participants was successful. Taking part in the Project through their financing
were the Croatian Government, IBRD, and EBRD and Croatian Railways as the Borrower.
Cooperation was carried out on all levels, from the physical implementation of the Project to the
implementation and control of business plans and key indicators.
The Bank's Project team always endeavoured to understand and accept the problems which arose in the
course of the Project and to support HZ's plans and proposals at the Government level.

To the satisfaction of all sides, the relationship between partners was from the very beginning open and
transparent. The Bank's Project team was always ready to cooperate and aid in terms of advice and support
both from HZ and the Government. In terms of the most efficient way to execute tasks and cooperation
with the Bank, individual PIU members took courses in World Bank procedures. The actual
implementation of the Project enabled the acquisition of knowledge, skills and experience which will
certainly increase the efficiency of employees and have an effect on the future success of HZ activities.

To conclude, we evaluate this Project as satisfactory and our cooperation with the World Bank as very
successful.


                                                     - 21 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

(b) Cofinanciers:

Comments from EBRD:

Project Implementation: As part of rolling stock rehabilitation programme, in 1999, Croatian Railways
signed a sovereign guaranteed loan with the EBRD to finance the modernisation of 20 diesel locomotives
series 2062 and 12 electric locomotives series 1141 in the total amount of US$ 35 mil. (loan no. 733). The
final list of financed project components included:

1. Modernisation of 20 diesel-electric locomotives series 2062 (Turner, TZV-Gredelj, EMD)
2. Modernisation of 15 electric locomotives series 1141 (Kon·ar-Elektri·ne lokomotive)
3. Procurement of a new type diesel engine CAT 3412 E to replace the old engine for shunting locomotives
    series 2132 (Teknoxgroup)
4. Procurement of assemblies for the modernisation of 8 DMUs series 7121:
   - 16 diesel engines with cooling system and elements for increasing power (Voith Turbo)
   - 16 sets for hot air heating of passenger area (Liebherr)
   - 16 sets of devices for indicating travelling destination (Belis·e)
5. Procurement of 12 traction motors and gear boxes for 3 EMUs series 6111 (Kon·ar- Generatori i motori,
     Voith Turbo)
6. Contract with the Canadian company Canarail for the provision of consulting services in the realisation
    of the projects financed by the EBRD.

There were no cost overruns and the project was completed successfully within the agreed timeschedule
reaching its physical objectives.

Covenant Compliance/Sector Reform:             Not fully satisfactory.  There continues to be lack of a
comprehensive reform strategy for the railway sector. It maintains its reliance on excessive state subsidies.
Delays in implementation of the new railway law and absence of a clear decision on the funding
mechanisms for rail infrastructure investments and the financing of passenger service losses has had a
detrimental effect on the competitiveness of the sector. Introduction of the open access, required if Croatia
becomes an EU member state, will thus have extremely negative effect on the railway operations in the
medium term. EBRD fully concurs with Lessons Learned section above. Comprehensive plan for the
sector's future is long overdue.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Agnieszka Grudzinska (Senior Infrastructure Finance Specialist)
Yash Pal Kedia (Railway Specialist, Consultant)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Madhu Nair (Consultant)
Lorraine McCann Kosinski (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:



                                                      - 22 -

(i) Enn Vasur
(ii) Peter Parker
(iii) Sunja Kim




                     - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:

Indicator             Projected in SAR/PAD for  Actual/Latest Estimate
                      end-2002
Working ratio                    155%              220 % (estimate for
excluding subsidy                                         2005)
Debt service                      1.3            1.1 (estimate for 2005)
coverage ratio
Staff productivity                217           299 (estimate for 2005)
(TU per employee)
Reduction of                       6                       1/
uneconomic
passenger services
(train kms, million)
Working ratio                    77%            98% (estimate for 2005)
Including operating
subsidy

Output Indicators:
Indicator             Projected in SAR/PAD      Actual/Latest Estimate
                      16,000 (as of December      14,362 (as of Oct. 31,
HZ staff reduction    31, 2002)                           2005)
Kms of rail lines
either closed or                  100                      100
under PSO (p.a)



1/ Under the ongoing PAL operation, HZ will prepare a proposal to reduce services along or close
uneconomic lines in 2006-2009, and submit the proposal to the MSTTD and the Bank by end-January
2006. Based on such proposal, the MSTTD will prepare a program and, after consultation with local
authorities, submit the program to the Government for approval by end-March 2006. Implementation of
such program will start no later than May 2006.




                                                - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a : Project Costs by Components (US$ million equivalent)
Project Component       Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                                                     Appraisal
A.      Goods
Track Renewal and              20.7                     28.0                135.3
Maintenance
Rehabilitation of              49.3                     38.9                 78.9
Traction Units and
Spare Parts
Conversion of Freight           2.6                      1.7                 65.4
Wagons
Rehabilitation of               8.5                     22.1                 260.0
Passenger Coaches
Environment                     1.4
Protection
B. Severance                   70.3                     71.4                 101.6
Payment
C. Efficiency                   2.5                     1.14                 45.6
Improvement
Total Baseline Cost            155.3                   169.16                108.9
Physical Contingencies         14.1
Price Contingencies            12.6
Frontier-end Fee                1.0                      0.9                 90.0
Total Project Cost             183.0                    170.6                92.9




                                                - 25 -

Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate
Project         ICB              IS              Other              NBF          Total Cost
Component                                                                        (including
                                                                                 contingencies)
        1.
        Goods        23.2              1.0                                             24.2
                    (23.2)             (1.0)                                          (24.2)
(a)
Construction
materials
Track Renewal
and
Maintenance
Environment           0.8              0.7             0.1                              1.6
Protection           (0.8)             (0.7)           (0.1)                           (1.6)
(b) Equipment
and machinery

Rehabilitation        13.0             1.0             8.8                35.0         57.8
of Traction         (13.0)             (1.0)           (8.8)                          (22.8)
Units and Spare
Parts
Conversion of
Freight Wagons        3.0                                                               3.0
                     (3.0)                                                             (3.0)
Rehabilitation
of Passenger          10.0                                                             10.0
Coaches             (10.0)                                                            (10.0)


2. Severance                                           35.4               47.0         82.4
Payment                                               (35.4)                          (35.4)
Consultancies
Technical
Assistance                                             3.0                              3.0
                                                       (3.0)                           (3.0)
Total Baseline
Cost
Frontier-end Fee                                       1.0                              1.0
                                                       (1.0)                           (1.0)
Total Project         50.0             2.7             48.3               82.0         183.0
Cost                (50.0)             (2.7)          (48.3)                          (101.0)




                                              - 26 -

Actual
Project         ICB       IS       Other       NBF        Total Cost
Component                                                 (including
                                                          contingencies)
        1.
        Goods

(a)                26.33                1.67                    28.0
Construction
materials
Track Renewal
and
Maintenance
Environment
Protection
(b) Equipment
and machinery

Rehabilitation                          3.70      35.20         38.90
of Traction
Units and Spare
Parts
Conversion of
Freight Wagons     1.70                                         1.70
Rehabilitation
of Passenger       21.85                0.25                    22.10
Coaches
Passenger
Transport          3.40                                         3.40
IT                                      2.52                    2.52
2. Severance
Payment                                 31.0      40.4          71.4
Consultancies
Technical
Assistance                              1.14                    1.14
Total Baseline
Cost
Frontier-end Fee
                                        0.90                    0.90
Total Project
Cost               53.28                38.66     75.60         170.6




                                - 27 -

Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)




Componen       Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal
     t
            Bank     EBRD        HZ    Bank       EBRD        HZ     Bank     EBRD        HZ
Goods
Track         24.2                 0.0     28.0                         116
Renewal
and
Maintenan
ce
Rehabilitat   22.8       35.0      0.0      3.7      35.0        0.2     16        100
ion of
Traction
Units and
Spare Parts
Conversio      3.0        0.0      0.0      1.7                          57
n of
Freight
Wagons
Rehabilitat   10.0        0.0      0.0     22.1                         221
ion of
Passenger
Coaches
Environme      1.6        0.0      0.0
nt
Protection
Passenger                                   3.4
Transport
IT                                         2.52
Severance     35.4       00.0     47.0     31.0                 40.4     88                   86
Payment
TA             3.0        0.0      0.0     1.14                          38
Frontier-e     1.0        0.0      0.0      0.9                          90
nd Fee
Total        101.0       35.0     47.0    94.46      35.0       40.6     94        100       -6.4
Project
Cost




                                             - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Cost Benefit Analysis
(Amounts in HRK million, base year: 1999)



                                               Present Value of
                                                     Flows
                                  Economic Analysis                             Financial Analysis
                             Appraisal         Latest Estimates         Appraisal            Latest Estimates



         NPV              HRK 2,157 m           HRK 1,233 m            HRK 684 m               HRK 750 m
         IRR                   54%                    45%                  26%                     28%


Until now, the full economic benefits of the project have not been achieved mainly because there has not
been enough time for the Bank-financed investments to fructify. HZ is now set to continue increasing
traffic and revenue at 2% per annum, reducing staff on the basis of mechanization and use of locomotives,
wagons and maintenance equipment rehabilitated and retrofitted under the Project. Because of heavy staff
reduction, HZ will need to procure more services and the variable cost/unit will increase gradually from
HRK0.33/traffic unit to about HRK0.41/traffic unit. It is also quite certain that "without project" transport
capacity building would have suffered and traffic would have increased by 2% per year for five years or so
and then stagnated at that level, staff reduction would have not taken place except that due to natural
attrition of 1% per year. On the other hand, staff wages would have risen as they have, due to union
pressure and the national policy on wages. Economic analysis has been undertaken on the basis of
comparing the results under the "without project" and "with project" scenarios, the assumptions under the
two scenarios are indicated below.

Assumptions behind the "without project" scenario include the following:

a)       The investment in the railways will be restricted to HRK 400 million per year due to budgetary
constraints;
b)       The traffic carrying capacity will slowly decline and as a result the freight traffic will increase only
by 2% per year for five years and then remain at that level;
c)       While traffic will increase slowly, the staff will continue except for natural attrition, which rate has
been assumed as 1% per year;
d)       Variable cost has been assumed to be HRK 0.33 per traffic unit, this cost not including staff costs
but only fuel, services, and spare parts;
e)       Fixed cost has been assumed to be HRK 360 million per year;
f)       Average tariff has been assumed as HRK 0.38 per traffic unit; and
g)       Economic cost of staff has been computed on the assumption that HZ will like to manage the
railways with 15,000 staff;


Assumptions behind the "with project" scenario include the following:

h)       The investment in the railways will be made by the Government being HRK 400 million per year
plus the investment made under the Project;
i)       The traffic carrying capacity will sharply improve and as a result the freight traffic will increase by



                                                     - 29 -

40% in the first five years and thereafter at 5% per year for the next five years, and 2% per year thereafter;
j)        The staff will reduce until it reaches the level of 8,000 or so;
k)        The average salary has risen at a sharp rate due to national policy but been assumed to remain
constant, i.e., will increase only by the rate of inflation;
l)        Variable cost has been assumed to increase gradually to HRK 0.41 per traffic unit due to gradual
increase in services as staff is reduced;
m)        Fixed cost has been assumed to remain the same;
n)        Average tariff has been assumed to remain the same;
o)        About 25% of the retrenchment benefits will be invested by the staff and that will generate an
income of 10% per annum; and
p)        About 45% of staff leaving HZ was reemployed, mostly in the subsidiary companies until the year
2004 by which date the process of subsidiary formation had been completed. After 2004, the rate of
reemployment of fresh retrenchment has been assumed as 10%.


                         WithoutProject                                                       WithProject
     Fin. Econ. Variable Fin. Econ.                Total   Total        Variable              Total Retrenched Interest Freight  Total  Change Change
     staff staff &fixed total total Capital Total  fiscal  econ.   Staff &fixed Capital Total fiscal    staff     from   user    econ. Croatian Govt
Year cost  cost  cost    cost cost   cost  revenue surplus surplus cost  cost   cost    rev  surplus AltIncomealt.income savings surplus Econ. Fiscal

  1 1,265   886  1,345 2,610 2,231     400  1,117 (1,893) (1,514) 1,265  1,345   478 1,117    (1,971)       32        2       0  (1,937)   (44)  (78)
  2 1,253   886  1,365 2,617 2,251     400  1,139 (1,878) (1,511) 1,193  1,441   510 1,190    (1,954)       57        3      31  (1,864)   (46)  (76)
  3 1,314   939  1,385 2,699 2,324     400  1,162 (1,937) (1,562) 1,206  1,581   543 1,306    (2,025)       92        2      87  (1,845)   (16)  (88)
  4 1,392 1,005  1,405 2,798 2,410     400  1,185 (2,012) (1,625) 1,217  1,661   582 1,352    (2,108)      161        0     101  (1,845)    (8)  (95)
  5 1,420 1,035  1,426 2,846 2,461     400  1,209 (2,037) (1,652) 1,109  1,807   639 1,464    (2,092)      202        2     154  (1,734)    (8)  (55)
  6 1,504 1,107  1,448 2,952 2,555     400  1,233 (2,118) (1,722) 1,100  1,859   617 1,477    (2,100)      241        1     147  (1,711)    4     18
  7 1,489 1,107  1,448 2,937 2,555     400  1,233 (2,103) (1,722) 1,045  1,976   470 1,550    (1,941)      247        2     191  (1,501)  159    163
  8 1,474 1,107  1,448 2,922 2,555     400  1,233 (2,088) (1,722)  993   2,100   400 1,628    (1,865)      252        1     238  (1,375)  233    223
  9 1,459 1,107  1,448 2,907 2,555     400  1,233 (2,074) (1,722)  943   2,233   400 1,709    (1,867)      256        1     287  (1,322)  235    207
  10 1,445 1,107 1,448 2,892 2,555     400  1,233 (2,059) (1,722)  896   2,327   400 1,795    (1,828)      261        1     339  (1,227)  283    231
  11 1,430 1,107 1,448 2,878 2,555     400  1,233 (2,045) (1,722)  851   2,425   400 1,885    (1,792)      265        1     393  (1,133)  333    253
  12 1,416 1,107 1,448 2,864 2,555     400  1,233 (2,030) (1,722)  809   2,466   400 1,922    (1,753)      269        1     416  (1,067)  356    278
  13 1,402 1,107 1,448 2,849 2,555     400  1,233 (2,016) (1,722)  768   2,508   400 1,961    (1,716)      273        1     439  (1,003)  379    300
  14 1,388 1,107 1,448 2,835 2,555     400  1,233 (2,002) (1,722)  730   2,551   400 2,000    (1,681)      277        1     463    (941)  403    321
  15 1,374 1,107 1,448 2,821 2,555     400  1,233 (1,988) (1,722)  693   2,595   400 2,040    (1,649)      280        1     487    (881)  427    340
  16 1,360 1,107 1,448 2,808 2,555     400  1,233 (1,974) (1,722)  659   2,640   400 2,081    (1,618)      283        1     511    (823)  451    357
  17 1,347 1,107 1,448 2,794 2,555     400  1,233 (1,961) (1,722)  626   2,685   400 2,122    (1,589)      286        1     536    (765)  475    372
  18 1,333 1,107 1,448 2,781 2,555     400  1,233 (1,947) (1,722)  595   2,732   400 2,165    (1,562)      289        1     562    (710)  499    386
  19 1,320 1,107 1,448 2,767 2,555     400  1,233 (1,934) (1,722)  565   2,779   400 2,208    (1,536)      289        0     588    (658)  521    398
  20 1,307 1,107 1,448 2,754 2,555     400  1,233 (1,921) (1,722)  565   2,828   400 2,252    (1,540)      289        0     615    (636)  543    381
  21 1,294 1,107 1,448 2,741 2,555     400  1,233 (1,908) (1,722)  565   2,877   400 2,297    (1,545)      289        0     642    (613)  566    363
  22 1,281 1,107 1,448 2,728 2,555     400  1,233 (1,895) (1,722)  565   2,927   400 2,343    (1,549)      289        0     670    (590)  589    346
  23 1,268 1,107 1,448 2,715 2,555     400  1,233 (1,882) (1,722)  565   2,979   400 2,390    (1,553)      289        0     698    (566)  613    329
  24 1,255 1,107 1,448 2,703 2,555     400  1,233 (1,869) (1,722)  565   3,031   400 2,438    (1,558)      289        0     727    (542)  637    311
  25 1,243 1,107 1,448 2,690 2,555     400  1,233 (1,857) (1,722)  565   3,085   400 2,487    (1,563)      289        0     756    (517)  662    294
                                                                                                                                NPV      1,233    750
                                                                                                                                IRR      45%     28%




                                                                - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/15/1997                5    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Transport Engineer (1);
                                             Counsel (1);Procurement
                                             Specialist (1)
              01/07/1998                5    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Transport Engineer (1);
                                             Counsel (1);Procurement
                                             Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/26/1998                6    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Transport Engineer (1);
                                             Counsel (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              11/12/1998                6    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Transport Engineer (1);
                                             Counsel (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)

 Supervision

              11/05/1999                3    RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);           S               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
              03/26/2000                2    SR.TRANSPORT ECONOMIST            U               U
                                             (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/06/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                  U               U
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              11/20/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                  U               U
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             LEAD RAILWAY ENGINEER
                                             (1); SR. OPERATIONS OFF. (1)
              06/01/2001                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                  U               U
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);



                                              - 31 -

                      LEAD RAILWAY ENGINEER
                      (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER (1)
      06/01/2001    5 TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                      LEAD RAILWAY ENGINEER
                      (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                      (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER (1)
      06/01/2001    5 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER         S    S
                      (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                      (1); LEAD RAILWAY
                      ENGINEER (1); SR.
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                      (1)
      10/01/2002    4 SR.OPERATIONS OFF. (1);     S    S
                      SR.FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      02/28/2003    4 SR.FINANCIAL ANALYST (2);   S    S
                      LEAD RAILWAY ENGINEER
                      (1); CONSULTANT (1)
      09/15/2003    4 SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST       S    S
                      (1); RAILWAY SPECIALIST
                      (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                      SPECIAL (1); PROJECT
                      OFFICER (1)
      02/27/2004    4 SR.FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);   S    U
                      RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                      INFRASTRUCT.SPECIALIST
                      (1); PROJECT
                      OFFICER,ZAGREB (1)
      09/24/2004    4 TEAM LEADER (1);            S    U
                      RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                      TRANSPORT ADVISER (1);
                      PROJECT OFFICER,ZAGREB
                      (1)


ICR
      March 2005    5 TEAM LEADER (1);
                      PROJECT OFFICER ,
                      ZAGREB (1);
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                      (2); RAILWAY
                      SPECIALIST (1)




                      - 32 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   N/A                         305.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        N/A                         220.27
  Supervision                                  N/A                         785.17
  ICR                                          N/A                             30.0
  Total                                        N/A                        1340.44
*SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.
         1/       Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.




                                                   - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

 2. Project Progress Reports.

 3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

 4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated October 2005; and

 5. Project Appraisal Document for Croatia: Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project, dated
December 8, 1998 (Report No: 18553-HR)




                                                - 36 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 29793

                                     14°                            15°                                 16°                                    17°                               18°                                  19°

                                        A U S T R I A
                                                                                                To Pragersko                  Lendava      ^

                                                                                                                ^            ^ Mursko Sredisce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C R O A T I A
                                                                                                           Sredisce          Cakovec
                                                                             To Grobelno                                               Kotoriba           To Budapest
                                                                                                                                                                                                    H U N G A R Y                                         RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND
                                                                                                                           Varazdin            Murakeresztur
                                                                                                                                                             To Budapest
                                                                         To Stranje     Rogatec
                                                                                                    Golubovec                                       Gyekenyes                                                                                                 RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
 ITALY                                                                                      Durmanec                       Koprivnica
                                                                                    Imeno     Kumrovec
                                                                                                                                      ^
  46°                                                                                                                                             ^                                         To Pécs                                    46°
                                                S L O V E N I A     To Ljubljana                                   Gornja          Krizevci
                                                                                                Savski   Zabok                                 Klostar
                                                                                                                   Stubica
                                                                                                Marof
                                                                                     Dobova           ZAGREB                                                                                                                                                          RAILROADS:
                                                                                                                                          Bjelovar                                      Magyarboly

                                    ^                                                                                                                                                                       Beli
                                             To Pivka                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAIN LINES
                                                                                                                        Dugo Selo                       Odvojnica
                                                                                                                                                              ^
                               To Presnica                To Ljubljana                                                                                                                                      Manastir
                                                                                                                                                             Pcelic                             ^                                                                       BRANCH LINES

                                                                                                                V. Gorica                                                                    Belisce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Subotica                          RAILROAD TRACK RENEWAL AND REHABILITATION:

                                          Ilirska                      Metlika        Kamanje                                                                                                                  Osijek       Erdut                                       1998 PROGRAM
                                         Bistrica                                                                                                                                            ^      Bizovac
                         Rakitovec                                                           Karlovac                                       Banova                      Velika                                      Dalj         Bogojevo                               1999 PROGRAM
                                                                                                                           Sisak/Caprag                                                   Nasice
                                                                                                                                            Jaruga
                                        Buzet              Moravice                                                                                                                                                        Vukovar                                      2000 PROGRAM
                                Lupoglav                                                                                                                                                                Vinkovci
                                                Rijeka                                                                     Sunja                 Novska                                                                                                                 2001 PROGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                      Nova
                                                                      Ogulin         ^                       Glina                                                   Kapela/      Slavonski                                                                             2002 PROGRAM
                                                                                   Ostarije                                                                          Batrina        Brod                                            ^
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Slavon
                                                                     Odvojnica                                       Volinja                                                                                            Tovarnik    Sid
                                               ^                                                                                                                                                       Samac

                                             Rasa                                                                             Dobrljin                                                                           Zupanje
  45°                                                                                                                                                                             Bosanski                                                  Beograd                   MAJOR TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                     Brod               ^Bosanski      Drenovci
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Samac                                      To                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                           To Bosanski Novi
                                Pula                                                                                                                                                                                ^                                                 RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                    To Sarajevo                   Brcko
                                                                                                          To Bosanski Novi                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                             ^                                                                                 To Banovici
                                                                                                         Ripac
                                                                                                Loskun       Kulen Vakuf


                                                                                      Gospic                     Martin Brod


                                                                                                                     ^
                                                                                                                   Licko Dugo Polje
                                                                                                                                                                   B O S N I A A N D
                                                                                                                    Strmica                                       H E R Z E G O V I N A
                                                                              Zadar


  44°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44°
                                                                                           Benkovac                  Knin



                                              A                                                        Sibenik
                                                 d  r                                                           Perkovic
                                                     iatic                                                                    Split


                                                             S  e                                                                                                                To Sarajevo
                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                               Capljina
                                                                                                                                                             PloceMetkovic
                                                                                                                                                                ^

  43°                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FED. REP. 43        °

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YUGOSLAVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (SERB./
This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                           Dubrovnik                           MONT.)
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0    25    50        75       100 Kilometers
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0        25            50               75             100 Miles
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
boundaries.
                               14°                              15°                                      16°                                      17°                                   18°                                     19°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECEMBER 1998

