Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4433 HR
Loan Agreement
(Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 20, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4433 HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Whereas (A) the Bank has received a letter of development policy dated December 
4, 1998, from the Borrower describing a program (the Program) designed to modernize 
and restructure Hrvatske Zeljeznice, the railway authority of the Borrower (HZ), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the execution thereof;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by HZ with the Borrower’s assistance and, 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to HZ, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
(C)
in order to assist in the financing of the Project, HZ intends to obtain 
from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the European Bank) a loan 
(the European Bank Loan) in an amount of about $35,000,000 equivalent under an 
agreement (the European Bank Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the European Bank;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and HZ (the 
Project Agreement);
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Business Plan” means the annual plan to be prepared by HZ in accordance 
with the Railways Law referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section;
(b)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means a subdivision of the Euro (as 
hereinafter defined), the national currency unit of the Federal Republic of Germany;
(c)
“Euro” and “EUR” each means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union;
(d)
“Railways Law” means the Borrower’s Railways Law Number 341-01, enacted 
in June 1994, as amended;
(e)
“Restructuring Unit” means the unit established by HZ to supervise and 
monitor the implementation of the Project and of other measures included in the 
Program;
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement, and
(g)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and HZ pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to 
eighty-five million four hundred thousand Euro (EUR 85,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Deutsche Mark a separate deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%)  of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the effective date, the 
Page  3
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value the 
first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to said Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to said Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause HZ to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of HZ therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
Page  4
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HZ to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation to the generality of the Borrower’s obligation under 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to 
ensure timely implementation by the ministries and other agencies of the Borrower of 
actions required on their part towards (i) the carrying out of measures included in 
the Program, and (ii) the preparation of the Business Plan in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to HZ (the Subsidiary 
Loan) under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
HZ, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including 
the obligation of HZ:
(i)
to make debt service payments under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
in Deutsche 
Mark;
(ii)
to repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding 
over the same period and on the same dates specified for the 
amortization of 
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and
(iii)
to pay on the dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement: 
(A) a 
commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan at the rate 
specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, minus any waiver thereof as may 
be determined from time to 
time by the Bank; and (B) interest on the amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding at an annual rate determined in 
accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by HZ 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
HZ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof shall be carried out.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HZ will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Railways Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of HZ to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The European Bank Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
September 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
HZ to 
withdraw the proceeds of the European Bank Loan shall have 
been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the 
European Bank Loan Agreement, or 
(B) such Loan shall have become due and 
payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
Page  6
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of HZ to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and HZ;
(b)
HZ, in conjunction with relevant authorities of the Borrower, has 
prepared a Business Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the years 1999 and 2003; and
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence demonstrating, to the 
satisfaction of the Bank, implementation of measures required hitherto under the 
Program.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HZ, 
and is legally binding upon HZ in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and HZ and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HZ in accordance 
with its terms;
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Katanèiæeva 5
Page  7
41000 Zagreb
Croatia
Telex:
862-21215
862-28133
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By /s/ Miomir Zuzul 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
     % of
   (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
  Euro Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Goods for:
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of 
(a) Track renewal
17,730,000
local expenditures 
    and maintenance
(ex-factory cost),
and 85% of local
(b) Traction units
16,890,000
expenditures for
    rehabilitation
other items procured
locally
Page  8
(c) Freight wagon
 2,530,000
    conversion
(d) Passenger coaches
 7,600,000
    rehabilitation
(e) Environmental 
 1,350,000
    protection
(2)
Payments
28,200,000
43%
for Labor re-
structuring under
the Business Plan
(3)
Consultants’ services,
 2,530,000
100%
including auditing
(4)
Fee
   850,000
Amount due under
section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
 7,720,000
__________
TOTAL
85,400,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of EUR 8,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after September 1, 1998; and (b) payments for labor restructuring 
under said Category (2) unless such payments are included in the Action Plan referred 
to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for (a) payments under Category (2) of the table shown in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule; (b) contracts for goods costing the equivalent of up to 
$400,000 each; and (c) contracts for services by individual consultants costing the 
equivalent of up to $50,000 each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) the 
implementation of restructuring measures included in the Program; and (b) the carrying 
out of high priority investments required to optimize the HZ’s operations and improve 
its financial position.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Physical Investments 
Page  9
(1)
Renewal of about 220 km of track, including provision of maintenance equipment. 
(2)
Rehabilitation of about 40 locomotives, (consisting of 30 diesel main lines and 
10 electric) and of 6 electric multiple units, and the provision of spare parts. 
(3)
Rehabilitation of about 120 coaches. 
(4)
Conversion of about 100 freight wagons.
(5)
Implementation of environmental protection measures, including the supply of 
necessary equipment, for the purpose of: (a) mitigating any adverse environmental 
impact of investment activities  under the Project; and (b) bringing selected 
facilities of HZ, such as water collection and treatment and supply of oil foil, up to 
required environmental standards.
Part B:
Institutional Measures
Implementation, as defined in the Program and in accordance with the 
time-schedule stated therein, of: 
(1)
measures for restructuring of HZ’s labor force, 
(2)
measures for commercialization of the activities of HZ, including gradual 
reduction of non-economic services of HZ and preparation of annual Business Plans 
incorporating HZ’s strategy and development programs, and 
(3)
measures for clarification of the financial links between HZ and its 
subsidiaries and for restructuring and gradual privatization of such subsidiaries, 
(4)
financial reform measures, including auditing, adjustments of rail tariffs and 
revaluation and streamlining of HZ’s assets, and 
(5)
measures for control and monitoring of revenues and expenses.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
              Euro)*
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2004
       4,270,000
through  March 15, 2014
       4,270,000
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3), set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Page  10
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
