Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4433 HR
Project Agreement
(Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HRVATSKE ZELJEZNICE
Dated January 20, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4433 HR 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HRVATSKE ZELJEZNICE (HZ). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Croatia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower a loan in an amount equal to eighty-five million four hundred thousand Euro 
(EUR 85,400,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that HZ agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
as indicated in Preamble (A) to the Loan Agreement, the purpose of the 
Loan provided thereunder is to assist in the implementation of a program for the 
modernization and restructuring of HZ (the Program); 
(C)
for the implementation of the Program and identification of measures to 
be taken thereunder, HZ has prepared and furnished to the Bank an action plan, dated 
November 12, 1998 (the Action Plan); and
(D)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HZ, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to HZ on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;  
Page  2
WHEREAS HZ, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) HZ declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project and other measures included in the Program with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and engineering 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and HZ shall otherwise agree, HZ shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) HZ shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  HZ shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and HZ, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with HZ 
on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. HZ shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HZ shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) HZ shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HZ shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by HZ of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  3
Management and Operations of HZ 
Section 3.01. HZ shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. HZ shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and administrative practices. 
Section 3.03. HZ shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) HZ shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied and adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
HZ shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and without 
limitation to any other financial measures to be taken in accordance with the Program, 
HZ shall not incur any debt (other than a debt incurred for the financing of the 
Project) unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of HZ shows 
that the ratio of the estimated net revenues of HZ to the estimated debt service 
requirements of HZ on all debt of the HZ including the debt to be incurred, shall be 
at least 1.0 in the fiscal year 1999 and at least 1.3 in each succeeding fiscal year.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of HZ maturing by its  
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
Page  4
(iii)
The term “net  revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
(including 
operating subsidies) and net non-operating income; 
and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments  in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) but excluding 
severance payment to 
employees of HZ.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt. 
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by HZ not 
earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incidence of the debt 
in question, which both 
the Bank and HZ accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified HZ 
of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of HZ. 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, without limitation 
to any other financial measures to be taken in accordance with the Program, HZ shall 
maintain ratios of total working expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 
those specified for each fiscal year indicated in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Before October 15 in each of its fiscal years, HZ shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by HZ and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
 following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion. 
(c)
If any review shows that HZ would not meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) for HZ’s fiscal years covered by such review, HZ shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, proposing to the Borrower 
adjustments of the structure or levels of HZ’s rates in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “total working expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu 
of taxes, but excluding depreciation and non-cash 
charges.
Page  5
(ii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations. 
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
undertake any railway investments (other than those financed by the Borrower according 
to the Railways Law) estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more during the 
execution of the Project, unless the economic and financial rates of return for such 
investments estimated on the basis of analyses carried out in accordance with 
methodologies satisfactory to the Bank, shall each be greater than twelve percent 
(12%). 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HZ 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HZ thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For HZ:
Hrvatske Zeljeznice
Mihnoviceva 12 10000 Zagreb Croatia
Facsimile:
38513783326
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HZ, or by HZ 
on behalf of the HZ under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General 
Manager or such other person or persons as the General Manager shall designate in 
writing, and HZ shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
Page  6
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
HRVATSKE ZELJEZNICE
By /s/ Miomir Zuzul 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Page  7
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B of this Section I; and (ii) the first contract to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C (1) of this Section 
I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in 
September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  8
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, but less than the equivalent 
of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firm 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent or for employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
HZ shall assign the general responsibility for Project implementation to the 
Restructuring Unit and shall, for this purpose, maintain the Restructuring Unit at 
least  until completion of the Project with such staff, resources and terms of 
reference as shall be agreed upon from time to time with the Bank. 
2.
HZ shall implement the Project in accordance with an Action Plan agreed upon 
between the Bank and HZ, as the Actin Plan may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank and HZ.
3.
HZ shall: (a) based on the Action Plan, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and concurrence, by October 15 in each year during the period of Project 
implementation, a draft business plan (the Business Plan), with the approved version 
thereof to be submitted by February 15 of the following year. The Business Plan shall 
set forth: (i) the operational, financial and staffing targets to be achieved by HZ 
during the year concerned; (ii) the measures to be taken in implementation of such 
targets, including action to be taken in support thereof by ministries and other 
agencies of the Borrower; (iii) an estimate of severance payments to be made to 
employees of HZ in implementation of the Business Plan; and (iv) the indicators to be 
utilized by HZ for monitoring the implementation of the Business Plan. 
4.
HZ shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, starting in the first quarter of the 
year 1999, quarterly report on progress in the implementation of measures included in 
the Business Plan.
5.
HZ shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Business Plan, the carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof; 
Page  9
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 1, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 3, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3 
Working Ratio
The following is the working ratio specified for purposes of Section 4.03 (a) of 
this Agreement:
Operational Targets
Fiscal Year
1999
2000
2001
2002
1.
Ratio of total working 
175%
165%
160%
155% 
expenses to total  
operating revenues  
(excluding in the  
calculation of revenues 
the amount of subsidies 
expected to be paid by 
the Borrower to HZ)
