Report No. PID6808
Project Name                     Croatia-Railway Modernization and  r+c N
Restructuring Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transportation
Project ID                       HRPA39161
Borrower                         Croatian Railways Company (HZ)
Implementing Agency              Hrvatske Zeljeznice
Mihanoviceva 12
10 000 Zagreb
Croatia
Tel:    385 1 45 77 946
Fax:    385 1 37 93 197
Date This PID Prepared           October 20, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         January 5, 1997
Projected Board Date             March 24, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Country Background: The war in Croatia severely disrupted the economy and
cost thousands of lives, with many more missing and wounded. Physical
infrastructure and buildings suffered considerable damage, mostly incurring
between 1991 and 1993, estimated by the Government at about US$ 20 billion,
including both direct and indirect damage. In the war zones the physical
infrastructure was heavily damaged. The war caused the displacement of some
350,000 people from within Croatia, while more than 360,000 Bosnian refugees
settled in Croatia. Although many families have now returned to their homes,
the remaining displaced persons and refugees continue to constitute a heavy
financial burden for the Government.
2.      In addition to the problems related to the war and the break-up of the
former Yugoslavia, Croatia also had to tackle simultaneously the problems of a
transition economy. Poorly run enterprises, which were formerly socially
owned, accounted for the bulk of industrial and agricultural output. Losses
of the enterprise sector were some 7-8w of GDP in 1993. Pressures on fiscal
accounts, as well as the financing by the banking system of the losses of the
more inefficient public and formerly socially-owned enterprises, fuelled
inflation which reached an annual rate of over 1400w in 1993.    Croatia has
been addressing these challenges courageously, in two distinct phases. During
most of 1992 and 1993, it endeavored to maintain its external competitiveness
while trying to avoid falling into hyperinflation. Building on initial
success, the authorities then launched a comprehensive stabilization package
in early October 1993 that has delivered impressive results so far. The
Croatian authorities are aware that, in spite of these early successes,
sustaining stabilization and resuming growth will now require more aggressive
measures in support of the systemic transformation of the economy, i.e.,
enterprise and bank reform.
3.     Sector Background:   The Croatian Railways (HZ), as an entity in its
present form, was founded when Croatia became independent in 1991. HZ had to
be face, in the last six years, a drop in traffic over 70w, inducing a



corresponding drop of the capacity utilization from 4.1 traffic units per
track km in 1990 to 1.1 in 1996. Despite a radical staff reduction during the
same period, the productivity per employee decreased precipitously. In
addition, HZ losses have been increasing steeply despite increasing Government
subsidies.
4.      HZ traffic revenues from customers increased from 1993 to 1996, in
nominal prices, as did traffic volume. During the same time, the combined
Government subsidies and deficit rose even more. Until the end of 1995, the
performance of HZ could have been seen as the culmination of many factors
starting with the creation of a new country and the war, closely followed by
economic recession and the disruption of the economies in the neighboring
countries. The main reason for HZ continuing poor financial performance is an
overall low productivity, combined with the provision of too many uneconomic
services, in the context of: (i) unclear company objectives and HZ/Government
relationship; and (ii) internal processes and human resources issues.
Project Objectives
5.      The overall objective of the project is to modernize and restructure HZ
along commercial principles in a way that will establish a railway sector
which meets Croatia's transport requirements and is economically and
financially sustainable with a substantially reduced level of subsidies.
Specific objectives would be to: (i) increase productivity through staff
retrenchment and rationalization of operations and maintenance activities,
including facilities; (ii) maintain the main lines in order to preserve HZ
revenue capacity; and (iii) reorganize HZ structure, management and relation
with the Government according to market principles. Achievement of these
objectives would be measured and monitored during implementation through a set
of key indicators.
Project Description
6.      The different project components have been grouped under five programs.
It should be borne in mind that some of the investments proposed are of such a
nature that they could be financed by the private sector. However, the actual
possibilities of this taking place depends on several facts such as the pace
of privatization in the country. The five programs consist of :
(i) An investment program: given the maintenance backlog accumulated over the
past years and the contraction of the railways industry, investments under the
project will be selected as the first priority investments required in order
to maintain HZ revenue earning capacity. The project would only finance
investments which would be required under conservative traffic assumptions and
would be in line with restructuring objectives;
(ii) A staff retrenchment program: this program will define the broad
framework of the social actions to be undertaken by HZ to assist adjusted
staff. In addition to the severance payment, actions could include re-
training programs based on regional employment opportunities, and job
searching and outplacement assistance;
(iii) A regulatory framework program: first, the program aims at establishing
an overall transport policy for Croatia, taking into account criteria such as
competition, market prices, orientation toward demand. A transport policy
paper is under preparation by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and
Communications, and will be discussed with the relevant parties involved.
Second, the program aims at getting the Law on Croatian Railways implemented.
In order to be implemented, the Law has to be interpreted and the related
regulations put in place;
-2-



(iv) A organizational restructuring program: the objective of this program is
for HZ to adopt an appropriate organizational structure, to upgrade management
and business procedures, and to increase efficiency in a market-driven
environment; and
(v) An economic and financial restructuring program: this program includes:
(i) the sale of assets such as real estate, as well as surplus passenger cars
and freight wagons; (ii) privatization of HZ subsidiaries; (iii)
rationalization of lines, rolling stock and facilities; (iv) reexamination of
rail tariffs, including clarification of the level of Government subsidies;
(v) revaluation of HZ assets; (vi) definition of adequate performance and
operating ratios; and (vii) establishment of adequate financial control
processes.
Project Financing
7.      It is expected that the project will be financed from a World Bank loan
of US$100 million, and an EBRD loan of US$50 million. For the total estimated
project cost, US$405 million equivalent, the remaining, US$255 million would
be financed by the Government of Croatia and any other possible cofinancier to
be identified.
Project Implementation
8.      The Borrower will be HZ which will be also the implementing agency.    The
guarantor will be the Ministry of Finance. HZ has extensive experience with
Bank procurement. Project monitoring will be conducted by the Project
Coordinator, to be located in HZ or the Ministry of Maritime Affairs,
Transport and Communications.
Sustainability
9.      The ultimate objective of the project is to address the restructuring of
the Croatian railways to make them economically meaningful and sustainable. A
Development Policy Framework is being developed to ensure that the proposed
restructuring actions will be implemented in a timely and efficient manner.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
10.     The implementing agency should be directly responsible for all
implementation phases of the project components, including procurement and
disbursement. In addition, railways reforms are very much country-specific
and operationally meaningful conclusions from past experience are quite
limited. However, in the case of Croatia, the European Union, Slovenia and
Austria will be important sources of inspiration.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The project is expected to be classified as "B" for purpose of OD4.01 on
Environmental Assessment, meaning that only a limited environment review will
be required. As a rehabilitation and maintenance project, negative impacts on
environment are expected to be minor. On the contrary, overall positive
impacts on environment will result from locomotive overhaul, line, station and
workshop closure, rolling stock facilities rehabilitation, and the like. The
related potential negative impacts such as polluted loading and unloading
areas, abandoned storage tanks and fuel filling stations, waste disposal
areas, will be mitigated through implementation of the current Laws on
Environment and subject to environmental auditing.
Project Benefits
12.     The main benefit lies in the sustainable railway system.    In government
financial contribution terms, the present subsidies will grow without
- 3 -



restructuring but with restructuring could be expected to be more than halved
by 2001. According to the forecasts, an investment in productivity
enhancement and staff reductions over five years would reduce budgetary
expenditures to cover HZ losses over this same period significantly.
Project Risks
13.     The main risk at the project preparation process stage concerns the
Government's commitment to the development objectives of the project.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Enn Vasur, ECSIN
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458 7695
Fax No.:         (202) 522 1179
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 4, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



