                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 32710-TD

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFI-Q1990 IDA-33160)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION (US$17.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                                             FOR

                A MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT




                                        October 12, 2006




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)

                             Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                              CFAF 651.27 = US$ 1.00
                          US$ 0.00153546 = CFAF 1.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -  December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCSRP   Committee for Oversight and Control of Petroleum Revenue
        (Collège de Contrôle et de Surveillance des Resources Pétrolieres)
CE      Cellule Économique (Economic reforms coordination unit)
CESRAP  Civil Service Reform Unit (Cellule technique chargée de la mise en oeuvre de la
        réforme de l'administration publique)
CID     Circuit Intégré de la Dépense (Integrated Expenditure Management System)
CSO     Civil Society Organizaition
CT      Cellule Technique (Public Finance Component executing unit)
DGDDI   Customs Directorate
FMIS    Financial Management Information System
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEEP    Management of Petroleum Economy Project
        (Gestion de l'Economie à l'Ere Pétrolière)
GEF     Global Environment Facility
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HR      Human Resources
HRD     Human Resource Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ICT     Information and Communication Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education, Communication
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IGF     General Inspection of Finance (Inspection Générale des Finances)
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IT      Information Technology
MDA     Ministries, Departments, and Agencies
MOP     Ministry of Plan, Development and Cooperation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PFM     Public Finance Management

PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRMP    Petroleum Revenue Management Program
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SENAREC National Secretariat for Capacity-Building
        (Secrétariat National pour le Renforcement des Capacités)
SOE     Statement of Expenses
TA      Technical Assistance
TTL     Task Team Leader

                           Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director:    Ali M. Khadr
                          Sector Manager:     Helga Muller
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Mamadou Lamarane Deme

                                            CHAD
                       Management of the Petroleum Economy Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                     30

Project ID: P062840                                                  Project Name: TD-Petroleum Economy Mgmt
Team Leader: Mamadou Lamarane Deme                                   TL Unit: AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 12, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: TD-Petroleum Economy Mgmt                                L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1990; IDA-33160
   Country/Department: CHAD                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (P); Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting (S); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (S); Macroeconomic management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/11/1999                                     Effective: 04/30/2000                09/21/2000
     Appraisal: 11/29/1999                                         MTR: 03/31/2002                  07/31/2003
      Approval: 01/27/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CHAD/CELLULE ECONOMIQUE - PRESIDENCY OF
                                           THE REPUBLIC
                      Other Partners:      MINISTRY OF FINANCE, MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVICE

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Ali Mahmoud Khadr                              Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Helga W. Muller                                Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:             Gradimir Radisic                               Eugen Scantie
ICR Primary Author:             Manga Kuoh; Mamadou L.
                                Deme


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective (PDO) of the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
(GEEP ­ Projet de Gestion de l'Économie à l'Ère Pétrolière) was to help Chad build capacity to
implement its petroleum revenue management program . This in turn would enable it to effectively
allocate and absorb oil revenue and thus pursue the poverty reduction objective of petroleum
resource development (Project Appraisal Document (PAD), page 1). The GEEP was part of a
broader program to support the production of oil in Chad and the construction of a pipeline to the
coast of Cameroon for its shipment and exportation. In Chad, the program benefited from two
IDA credits and one IBRD loan to the state and from an IFC loan to the Chad Oil Transportation
Company. Consequently, this report is one of a series of ICRs for which a common Overview
document has been prepared. That document describes the background against which the program
was prepared, including the Petroleum Revenue Management Program (PRMP) and its
supporting legislation approved by the National Assembly on December 30, 1998. It also
discusses how implementation of the PRMP was coordinated over time.

The Project was implemented in the context of intensive policy dialogue between Chad and the
Bretton Woods institutions. An IMF-supported program for the 1999­2002 period was
negotiated in November 1999, while a Third Structural Adjustment Credit was approved by IDA
on May 4, 1999. During the period of Project implementation, IDA approved three other policy
lending operations, the last one being the Institutional Reform Support Credit (November 2004).
By strengthening institutional capacity for key economic management functions, the Project also
aimed at supporting the implementation of the reforms targeted under the policy lending
operations.

The Project was the third economic management­related institution-building operation financed
by IDA after the Economic and Financial Management Project (GEF ­ Cr. No. 1872-CD,
approved in 1988 and restructured in 1994 following the CFA Franc devaluation), and the
Capacity-Building for Economic Management Project (Cr. No. 2818-CD, approved in 1996). The
Global Environment Facility (GEF) project helped Chad define and implement its reconstruction
program after years of civil war. Its ICR rated the achievement of objectives substantial. The
Capacity-Building for Economic Management Project was basically a continuation of activities
initiated in 1994 under the GEF project. Its outcome and achievement of objectives were rated
satisfactory for most of the components. However, the objectives of the civil service reform
component were not achieved, as the Project only facilitated consensus-building on the need to
strengthen controls and improve personnel management.

Assessment of the Project Development Objective. The relevance of the PDO is rated
substantial because (i) the concept of an institution-building operation specifically designed to
support the management of an economy about to benefit from unprecedented revenue from
mineral resources was indeed relevant to the country situation and timely; (ii) the Project was fully
in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); (iii) one of its specific operational objectives
was to support the preparation of Chad's first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which
was necessary to provide a poverty-oriented strategic framework for the country's development
effort; and (iv) most of the objectives pursued under the various Project components were



                                                - 2 -

reasonable, although the time frame for the implementation of most measures included in the
performance indicators Table of the PAD was overly ambitious.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The PDO was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The five original components of the GEEP were as follows:

Public Finance Management (US$8.2 million). The Public Finance Management (PFM)
component included: (i) the preparation and presentation of a consolidated budget; (ii) the
rationalization and simplification of budget expenditure procedures; (iii) the reform of treasury
management and public accounting through modernization and harmonization of public
accounting and budget nomenclature, public debt management upgrading and consolidation with
Treasury operations, and implementation of cash-flow plans based on more robust analysis and
forecasting; (iv) the strengthening of internal control and audit in the budget expenditure
management system; (v) the modernization of systems and equipment for enhanced revenue
mobilization (tax and customs directorates); and (vi) the implementation of a computerized
financial management information system (FMIS).

Poverty Database and Strategy (US$3.0 million). Two groups of activities were planned: (i)
the strengthening of the poverty and development database through two household surveys, two
surveys of economic and social services at the community level, and the treatment of economic,
social, and sector statistics from the central bank, ministries, nongovernmental organizations, and
donors and (ii) the production of a poverty profile and the formulation of a poverty reduction
strategy in a participatory manner.

Human Resources Development (US$1.3 million). The objective was to support: (i) the
institutional assessment of key economic administrations; (ii) updating of the Civil Service
Statutes and related rules and regulations; (iii) the harmonization of the payroll and the civil
service census, the introduction of a unified civil servant roster, and the training of its users; and
(iv) a human resource development (HRD) program in pilot ministries that included the
development of a new organizational chart with appropriate definition of departmental functions
and job profiles for the key positions, the selection of staff on the basis of competence, the
introduction of a performance-based remuneration system, and an information, education and
communication (IEC) campaign in the civil service.
Oversight and Control (US$1.3 million). This component was designed to support the
oversight and control functions mandated by the Petroleum Management Revenue Law, including
assistance to: (i) the Collège de Contrôle et de Surveillance des Resources Pétrolieres (CCSRP,
the Oversight Committee on the Management of Petroleum Resources) that was being created;
(ii) the office of the Auditor-General (namely the Chambre des Comptes of the Supreme Court, in
the specific case of Chad); and (iii) an IEC program aimed at civil society.

Monitoring Economic Reform (US$3.7 million). This component was directed at supporting:
(i) the pursuit of a macroeconomic stabilization and privatization agenda; (ii) the preparation and
negotiation of adjustment programs with external partners; (iii) monitoring of and reporting on the


                                                 - 3 -

implementation of adjustment programs; (iv) the conduct of workshops and surveys on good
governance; (v) the coordination of national capacity-building policies and programs; and (vi)
information aimed at the National Assembly and civil society on economic reform and
capacity-building. Project resources were to assist existing agencies - the Cellule Économique
(CE) and the National Secretariat for Capacity-Building (SENAREC) - in charge of monitoring
structural adjustment and coordinating capacity-building activities, respectively.

3.4 Revised Components:
Overall, the components remained as originally designed. However, significant changes in Project
activities explained the reallocation of resources under the Credit.

Support to procurement reform. In 2002, the government launched a procurement reform,
including the preparation of a new Procurement Code and the strengthening of the central
procurement agency (office building and information technology (IT) equipment, establishment of
a library and training facilities, technical assistance to develop application texts for the
Procurement Code and to train staff, and recruitment of 12 procurement specialists). A
comprehensive action plan was prepared during the mid-term review (MTR) of the Project in
June/July 2003. It was agreed that the Project should support the implementation of the action
plan.

Building construction. During implementation, it was decided that the Project should finance the
rehabilitation/expansion of existing facilities or the construction of new offices for the public
procurement agency, the Audit Department of the Supreme Court, the Civil Service Reform Unit
(Cellule technique chargée de la mise en oeuvre de la réforme de l'administration publique -
CESRAP), the Tax Directorate, and the CE. This led to a reallocation of resources, with
disbursements under the Works category totaling US$0.9 million equivalent, compared with
US$0.4 million planned at Appraisal. This suggests that the need for improvements in office
facilities could have received more attention during Project preparation, related to the
institution-building strategy of each agency concerned.

Monitoring Economic Reform. As described in Section 4, the content of this component
substantially changed during implementation, with major increases in funds allocated to the CE.

Assessment of the Project Design. The overall Project design is rated as moderately
satisfactory. A number of good design features should be highlighted: (i) the participatory
approach, including information for and consultation with civil society organizations (CSOs); (ii)
the emphasis on the oversight and external audit functions; (iii) the explicit link between PFM
reforms and poverty reduction strategy development and monitoring; (iv) the focus on the central
administration in N'Djamena as opposed to a Project design that included provincial
administrations as well; and (v) the relevance of activities included in the components. However,
the Project design was not satisfactory in several respects.

More explicit links between the GEEP and the Petroleum Revenue Management Program would
have strengthened the Project's relevance to Chad's policy agenda and provided a clear unifying
and integrating theme to the various Project components. The objective of helping Chad manage



                                                 - 4 -

an economy with unprecedented oil revenue, and the reference in the PAD to the PRMP, would
have justified a more explicit link between the Project design and the implementation of the
PRMP. Financing equipment and operating costs for the CCSRP and the Chambre des Comptes
was necessary, but other areas of interaction between the PRMP and the GEEP should have
received more attention at the design stage, including the budget reform, the poverty database to
monitor the impact of expenditures in the priority sectors, and arrangements regarding the Future
Generations Fund.

A clear description of how each Project component would support one or more specific
objectives of the PRMP would have provided a better integrated assistance package. In addition,
explicit reference to the PRMP would have facilitated the attempt to organize the Project in two
phases. On page 6, the PAD pointed to "urgent project activities ...expected to be implemented
during the first phase of eighteen months." However, there were no indication of the content of
each of the two phases, the triggering factor(s) for embarking on the second phase, or if the
intention was to phase the Project according to a sequencing of actions in line with priorities
established under the PRMP, for example. It was simply stated that Phase II would start after the
mid-term review. A reference to a MTR by itself does not define a two-phase approach in Project
design. A proper translation of the two-phase idea in the Project design would have provided
greater direction for implementation and would have facilitated performance monitoring.

The institutional and implementation arrangements for the Project were not properly designed.
The PAD presents two executing agencies: the Ministry of Finance (MoF) responsible for the
Public Finance Management component and the Cellule Économique responsible for the other
four Project components and for overall coordination. Implementation of Project activities was
specifically entrusted to MoF for the PFM component and the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
(MoP, then Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation) for the Poverty
Database and Strategy component. Responsibilities for the implementation of the other
components were not as clearly indicated. While the CE was expected to take the lead and the
SENAREC was to make a substantive contribution, the role of the various beneficiary agencies
was not indicated. Overall operational coordination and oversight was to be done by a
Coordination Committee in which the CE, the MoF, and the MoP would be represented. The CE
was to assume the Secretariat of the Committee. Political-level oversight of the Project was the
responsibility of the MoP.

These arrangements had three major weaknesses. First, the role, composition, and functioning of
the Project Coordination Committee were not indicated in the PAD, leaving uncertain the use of a
key management tool expected to help build consensus, provide guidance, and monitor
performance. During implementation, neither the CE (which enjoyed a central position) nor the
other participating or beneficiary agencies (which were not designated as executing or
implementing agencies) had enough incentives to push for the effective functioning of the
Coordination Committee.

Second, there was confusion between the execution function and the coordination and monitoring
function. The CE and the SENAREC were given implementation responsibilities for the Oversight
and Control and the HRD components that they could not assume because of their respective



                                               - 5 -

positions in the administration. At the same time, there was no clear accountability mechanism for
the actual implementers (CESRAP, CCSRP, and Chambre des Comptes).

Third, while operational efficiency called for the MoF to take responsibility for the execution of
the PFM component, the PAD did not provide clear indications on how this responsibility would
be exercised within the ministry. A budget allocation of US$565,000 for a "Project management
unit" was mentioned, but its institutional location, role, composition, and functioning were not
described. Soon after the Project became effective, the government put in place a unit within the
MoF (the Cellule Technique, or CT), separate from all other directorates. In the absence of a
clear definition of its responsibilities vis-à-vis the beneficiary directorates in the MoF and the CE,
the CT simply became an additional administrative layer with little value-added between the CE
(which kept the resources allocation authority) and the directorates of the MoF (Treasury,
Budget, Customs, Tax, Inspection, and Debt), which were expected to actually implement the
reforms.

The strategy for institutional capacity-building was incomplete. The PAD acknowledged the
limited capacity available in Chadian public institutions and included relevant institutional aspects
in the analysis of critical risks. The Project sought to strengthen the capacity of a number of
ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs), including by financing young graduates and
providing staff training. Yet the Project design was insufficient for effective institutional
capacity-building. The effort was not cast in a comprehensive institutional development strategy
for the concerned agencies with strong links between needs assessments, staff recruitment and
training, and the operational environment (physical facilities, work plan, supervising authority). In
fact, the design did not provide for professionally conducted training needs assessments focused
on operational responsibilities of specific MDAs or the assessment of the capacity of local training
institutions in the key areas of economic management reforms targeted by the Project. This tended
to limit the impact of the capacity-building initiatives under the Project, as illustrated by the
underutilization of some of the young recruits and the uneven relevance of training provided to
some staff, especially abroad.

The strategy for introducing modern information and communication technology (ICT) was not
developed. The Project called for the modernization of ICT (especially for PFM and human
resources (HR) management) because most departments still operated manual systems, with high
risks of errors and loss of important information. However, the introduction or consolidation of
modern ICT proved more challenging than expected, suggesting insufficient attention at the
planning stage. The Project design should have provided more guidance on ICT modernization
principles and approaches, including the need to differentiate and properly handle the various ICT
functions (analyzing strategic issues, developing and rolling out the system, operating and
maintaining the system) and to strengthen the ownership of the system at the central ministries
and user MDA levels through intensive staff training and sensitization of managers and political
appointees. As a result, the needs of the Treasury, for instance, were not properly assessed or
effectively addressed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no official assessment of the Quality Assurance Group. The ICR deems the quality at
entry to be moderately unsatisfactory. Several factors deserve a positive rating, including the


                                                    - 6 -

consistency with Bank strategy for the country, the relevance of the PDO, the design of a number
of subcomponents, and the involvement of Chadian officials in Project preparation activities.
However, the important weaknesses already signaled in the assessment of the Project design and
the institutional arrangements suggest that the technical preparation work was not completed in
some respects and that the Project was not ready for implementation.

Another element that affects the rating of the Quality at Entry is the risk analysis of one aspect of
the HRD component. Updating the civil service statutes, harmonizing the payroll and the civil
service nominal roll, and streamlining and modernizing selected pilot ministries were feasible
objectives. However, the objective of introducing staff selection on the basis of competence and
evaluation or promotion and remuneration of staff on the basis of performance, though limited to
the pilot ministries, was overoptimistic in the GEEP time frame. Not only were the modern and
transparent instruments for such HR management policies and processes yet to be developed, but
staff selection, promotion, and remuneration remained highly politically sensitive aspects of public
sector management in Chad. The issue was signaled in the Project risk analysis, but the judgment
of the Project preparation team may have been influenced by the consensus that the authorities
claimed the concerned parties had arrived at during preparation of the capacity-building project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the GEEP outcome is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. As reflected in the
presentation of the outputs by component (in the next subsection) and in the summary of
performance under key indicators (Annex 1), the results have been encouraging in several areas if
the economic management instruments available in Chad at the end of the Project in 2005 are
compared with the situation in 2000. However, section 4.2 points to major shortcomings that can
only justify a moderately unsatisfactory rating. It is the ICR team's view that although the effort
deployed during implementation, especially starting in 2003, enabled improvements in Project
effectiveness, it did not redress the course of Project implementation to the point where the
Project outcome could be judged satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:


Public Finance Management. The ICR rates this component as moderately unsatisfactory.
There have been improvements. For example, a new debt management database has been installed
and validated and the Tax Directorate benefited from the rehabilitation of its main office building,
the provision of equipment, and the preparation of technical specifications for a new computerized
system to improve efficiency and accountability in tax collection and data management processes.
However, progress has not been satisfactory in major aspects of expenditure management and
revenue administration. As a result, during the Project period, Chad did not put in place a sound
and sustainable PFM system that could support the implementation of the PRMP effectively, as
intended.

Budget Preparation. A new accounting and budget nomenclature has been implemented, and the
economic and functional classification of expenditure has been updated. While this helped



                                                - 7 -

streamline budget preparation, the new nomenclature has not led to the execution of a
consolidated budget, as expected. The budget is still presented and executed in four parts (the
sovereign state budget - net of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and oil revenues - the
HIPC budget, the oil budget, and the donor-financed development budget). Program budgeting
has been introduced in nine pilot ministries based on the findings of public expenditure reviews
carried out in selected sectors financed under the Project. However, the development of program
budgets in priority sectors has not yet had any significant impact on the budget allocation process.
Moreover, the practice of projecting revenue overoptimistically continued to undermine the
government's effort to develop a multiyear fiscal framework for budget preparation and
execution.

Budget Execution. Although the objective of implementing a computerized FMIS provided some
impetus to the reform, the end results were not satisfactory. After substantial delays in launching
the computerized FMIS project, in October 2002 Chad signed an agreement with Burkina Faso.
The parties agreed to transfer the integrated system that had been used in Burkina for four years
and that supports planning and budgeting, accounting, and reporting subsystems there. Thanks to
a unified database available to key agencies linked in an electronic network, the system in place in
Burkina enables real-time monitoring of transactions and expenditures with different levels of
aggregation. Hence it is referred to as the integrated expenditure chain (Circuit Intégré de la
Dépense, or CID).

In spite of CID's apparent simplicity, it required a major development and continuing adaptation
effort in Burkina, where: (i) a full team of national system development specialists was put in
place at an early stage with the support of two specialists under multiyear technical assistance
contracts; and (ii) system development was guided by an approved reform package spelling out
key institutional reorganization and business process changes. Obviously, the situation in Chad
was substantially different at the launch of the Project in terms of reform track record,
management systems in key agencies, computer literacy of the potential users, and ICT expertise
available. Furthermore, a key functionality needed in Chad for the treatment of oil revenues was
not supported by the Burkinabe system.

The introduction of an effective FMIS was hampered by the absence of a proper and defined
strategy, delays in equipment purchase, and a lack of commitment and competencies in the
ministries to implement the system with appropriate reorganization measures. It was also
hampered by insufficient funding. At the end of the Project, although the MoF could monitor the
various stages of the expenditure chain from commitment to payment order to actual
disbursement, the computerized system had not delivered the expected results. The budget
preparation module had been validated as a performing management tool usable by the
administration. As of June 2006, however, it was not being used by the Budget Directorate, which
continues to work with Excel files. The payroll is not yet interfaced with or linked to the
expenditure chain. While the CID can generate tables showing the various totals in the
expenditure chain, data are neither reliable nor consistent, and coverage is limited to the sovereign
state budget. Expenditure monitoring is still done through the reposting of data generated by
separate and mostly manual systems in different agencies. A recent audit by an independent IT
consultant concluded there were serious weaknesses in the IT organization and in the way the



                                                 - 8 -

CID has been implemented.

In retrospect, it is clear that serious consideration should have been given to alternative options,
including the purchase of a medium-range off-the-shelf package that includes PFM standard
modules. Such an approach would have alerted the Chadian officials earlier to the requirements
and constraints of the computerization exercise, thereby ensuring that appropriate steps were
taken for the effective implementation of the FMIS.

Another major deficiency in budget execution relates to cash management. Tightening controls
over the various Treasury bank accounts and consolidating these accounts remain elusive tasks.
Combined with the absence of proper cash requirements planning and effective budget execution
monitoring, the inadequate management of the Treasury bank accounts has triggered recurrent
cash shortages and led to arrears accumulation (estimated at 1.5 percent of non-oil GDP at end
2004) that severely eroded the financial credibility.

Customs. Project support to the Customs Directorate (DGDDI) did not yield the expected results
in spite of improvements noticeable in the main customs office of N'Gueli at the border with
Cameroon (improved facilities and limited computerization of operations). Reforming DGDDI has
been an elusive task too. The directorate continued to suffer from high turnover in its senior
management and a severe lack of professionalism among its staff, which includes many former
military personnel with limited skills relevant to customs administration. Also, the Project's plans
to upgrade the Customs School to a full-fledged Finance School (École des Régies Financières)
and to intensify staff training for Customs officers did not materialize. In the absence of a strong
political commitment to address the issues facing the DGDDI (organizational structure, staffing,
rehabilitation of selected buildings, low non-salary operational budget), the recommendations of
the operational diagnostic financed under the Project were not followed up. With the difficulties
of securing financing for the service contract with the U.N. Conference on Trade and
Development and the training of adequate staff, part of the equipment acquired under the Project
to support the upgrading of the software in the computerized system is not being utilized for its
intended purpose, and the Customs operations are still widely handled manually, with all the
related risks and inefficiency that this entails.

Actual Spending. Spending under the PFM component totaled US$2.9 million equivalent (IDA
and Borrower) as opposed to US$8.2 million initially allocated. This large underutilization of the
allocation was essentially the result of the unsatisfactory management of that component and the
absence of proper monitoring for critical activities designed to improve Treasury operations. In
spite of the establishment of the CT, PFM reform activities remained fragmented and were
implemented very slowly. This facilitated the shifting of resources in favor of Project components
managed by the CE: Monitoring of Economic Reform, and Poverty Database and Strategy.

Poverty Database and Strategy. The ICR rates this component as moderately satisfactory (the
Strategy subcomponent is rated satisfactory and the Poverty Database as moderately
unsatisfactory).

PRSP. The Project contributed to the preparation of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy



                                                  - 9 -

Paper in 2001 and the full PRSP in 2003. National Statistical Agency (Institut national de la
statistique, des études économiques et du développement ­ INSEED) management also
acknowledges the GEEP's contribution to enhancing Chad's capacity to produce an improved
macroeconomic framework based on a computerized simplified national accounting system,
national accounts in a timely manner, a quarterly economic bulletin, and quarterly price indices. In
addition, the GEEP enabled the recruitment of 25 young graduates with relevant general
education who were sent to statistical schools in Abidjan, Dakar, and Yaoundé for specialized
training and were posted in the INSEED and selected ministries upon return. Finally, the INSEED
building was rehabilitated and equipment was provided as planned. This improved the working
conditions and the efficiency of INSEED staff substantially.

Poverty Database. The production of a database of poverty and development indicators was not
completed by the end of the Project, although several related tasks were at an advanced stage.
After a slow start to activities, it was agreed that the first household survey would be launched in
January 2002. The launch was postponed because of logistical problems (vehicles and
questionnaire forms were not delivered on time, additional staff and some 65 motorcycles were
necessary) and delays in processing the contract between the GEEP and INSEED, which specified
the content of the tasks and the deliverables. The contract was eventually signed in September
2002. In addition, in April 2002 a Bank mission reviewed the methodology proposed for the
survey and recommended improvements that included the use of a smaller sample and the
adoption of three visits per household, instead of one. While INSEED management endorsed
these improvements, the logistical and personnel implications caused delays.

The household survey was eventually launched in January 2003, and data collection was
completed a few months later. There were delays in the data entry, processing, and validation.
There have also been some questions regarding the quality of the survey work, because in a few
zones the survey teams did not follow the instructions fully (only one visit out of the three was
considered usable for the analysis eventually). The Government requested an independent
assessment from an expert who concluded that the errors and discrepancies noted were not
significant enough to invalidate the survey and that, given the richness of the information
collected, it would be a major waste if the task were not completed--including full analysis,
exploitation of the data, and the dissemination of the results. In sum, the Project helped produce a
reliable set of poverty data available to all parties. Since then, the government has decided to
complete the data analysis and to publish the survey report and the poverty profile with the
assistance of the European Commission, the U.N. Development Programme, and a World Bank
Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant.

Actual Spending. While delays due to weak technical and management capacity led to fewer
activities being carried out than planned, the total expenses under the Poverty Database and
Strategy component reached US$4.56 million equivalent (IDA and Borrower), 50 percent above
the US$3.0 million initial allocation.

Human Resources Development. The results under the HRD component have been
unsatisfactory despite the full disbursement of the US$1.3 million equivalent allocated to the
component. The only accomplishments were the adoption of a new civil service statute law in



                                                 - 10 -

2001 and the institutional assessment of nine pilot ministries through functional and organizational
audits completed in 2004. However, in the absence of the necessary decrees, the law was not
effective by the end of the Project. Also, the follow-up to the functional audits of the ministries
had not yet taken place.

In the area of establishment control, there was no significant progress. A civil service census was
carried out in 2000. Reportedly, about a hundred ghosts or irregular workers were identified (out
of a staff strength of about 30,000) and taken off the payroll. However, the census was not
exploited effectively and the data collected had become obsolete to a large extent by the end of
the Project. Besides, the computerization of the HR management system experienced difficulties
similar to the ones faced by the FMIS. After several years of work on a previously aging system,
an attempt to transfer to Chad a software package used in Burkina Faso proved to be very
challenging as well. In sum, at the end of the Project a more reliable HR database was not
available, the harmonization of the civil service roster and the payroll had not been achieved, and
the tools for effective establishment control and HR management were not yet in place.

Oversight and Control. The ICR rates this component as moderately satisfactory. The
objective of establishing fully operational oversight and control agencies was achieved within the
allocated budget of US$1.2 million equivalent. However, the impact of these organizations on the
quality of public spending, and, in particular, the management of petroleum revenue, appears to
have been limited.

In spite of initial staffing and logistical difficulties, the CCSRP quickly became an important actor
in the oil resources management governance structure. Its credibility was enhanced when its
quarterly and annual reports started to circulate. The report for calendar year 2003 pointed to
important shortcomings, including education and health expenditures in the government accounts
that were not reflected on the ground. The College's reports on the use of the petroleum revenues
in 2004 and 2005 underscored irregularities in transfers of funds, poor quality of expenditures,
and long delays in the delivery of goods and services, as well as lack of competitive bidding and
cases of overpricing of goods and services. They have been posted on the College Web site (
www.ccsrp-tchad.org) and have been well disseminated and discussed in local and international
media.

While much remains to be done, solid initial steps have also been taken in the area of external
audit with the relaunch of the Chambre des Comptes of the Supreme Court. The Project has
financed public awareness seminars (in N'Djamena and 32 other localities), staff training,
equipment, short-term consultant services, and missions to establish contacts with similar agencies
in other African countries. During the Project, the Chambre des Comptes completed the audits of
the government accounts for fiscal years 2000­03 and 10 agency-specific audits. It also developed
a work program that includes the remaining up-to-date audits of government accounts, auditing of
the five largest government contracts each year, and auditing of all procurement and purchases
under HIPC assistance.

The achievements under this component are largely the result of an approach to capacity-building
that was comprehensive and holistic - institutional, organizational, and individual. For the



                                                   - 11 -

CCSRP, the Project financed a set of activities that included definition of the mandate and status,
development of the organizational structure, operational manuals, recruitment of professional
staff, construction of the building, purchase of office and IT equipment, enhancement of
communications, the operational cost of the CCSRP, and staff training. On a smaller scale, this
was also the approach taken to support the Chambre des Comptes. By contrast, the same
approach was not applied to PFM reforms.

Monitoring Economic Reform. Overall, the Monitoring Economic Reform component is rated
as moderately unsatisfactory. Against an initial allocation of US$3.7 million equivalent, the
component absorbed US$8.89 million. However, this figure includes the costs of activities
relating to the disengagement of the state and procurement reform, for which the PAD had not
provided any estimates.

Support to Macroeconomic Policies. Performance in this sub-component is rated as moderately
satisfactory. As its predecessors had done, the GEEP facilitated the preparation and the
coordination and monitoring of policies and programs under Bank and IMF-supported operations
in a satisfactory manner. Shortcomings in fiscal policy and structural reforms were more the result
of government decisions than of insufficient support from the Project for policy formulation and
coordination. The subcomponent also included the construction of a medium-size office building,
an option that proved to be more cost-effective than the initial plan to rehabilitate the CE's
rundown premises.

Support to the Disengagement of the State. The outcome under activities relating to the
disengagement of the state is rated as unsatisfactory, although the PAD did not provide any
yardstick for performance measurement. The disengagement of the state from commercial
activities (especially the cotton sector and public utilities) was not a subcomponent per se. It was
simply mentioned as one aspect of the overall economic reform program to be pursued during the
Project implementation period with the support of the Bretton Woods institutions. These
activities, which eventually cost a total of US$1.7 million equivalent (10 percent of the IDA
credit), were not described and assigned a specific budget allocation in the PAD. During
implementation, the government proceeded with the privatization of the oil and soap factory,
albeit in a manner with which the Bank did not agree. It also requested that the Project finance
studies on the privatization of CotonTchad, the cotton parastatal, and on the environmental and
social impact of cotton sector liberalization as well as a limited number of international and
national experts to help prepare and carry out the reform. Of the four studies launched in 2002
and completed by the end of 2004, only the social and poverty impact of CotonTchad
privatization had not been validated (because the consultant did not perform satisfactorily, only 50
percent of the payment was made). However, at the end of the Project, no decision or action had
been taken on the recommendations of the studies. A draft "road map" on cotton sector reform
that was being reviewed by the government at the end of the Project was adopted in late 2005.

Procurement Reform. Performance in carrying out the procurement is rated as moderately
satisfactory. A new Procurement Code was adopted in 2004, an application text was
subsequently prepared, training of the key procurement staff at the Public Procurement Agency (
Direction générale des marchés publics - DGMP) and in Administrative and Financial



                                               - 12 -

Directorates (Direction des          affaires administratives et financières ­ DAAF) of key line
ministries was initiated, and a procurement bulletin was launched. However, for the new Code to
be effective at the end of the Project, much remained to be done. This included the dissemination
of new legislation, the training of procurement specialists, and the monitoring of compliance with
new procedures.

Workshops and Surveys on Good Governance and Information Aimed at the National Assembly
and the Civil Society on Economic Reform and Capacity-Building. The financing allocated to the
SENAREC under the Project was not used because of grants made available by donors, including
two IDF grants: the Parliamentary Economic Capacity-Building grant, which focused on budget
management training for the two parliamentary commissions dealing with finance and economic
issues, and the Civil Society grant, designed to help build the capacity of civil society
organizations in order to participate in the preparation and implementation of the poverty
reduction strategy.

The activities planned under this subcomponent were carried out satisfactorily including: (i) the
development of the Good Governance Strategy, which was adopted in August 2002 by the
government; (ii) the preparation of a major national consultation on the justice and army (États
généraux de la justice et de l'armée); (iii) strengthening of the capacity of CSOs to be credible
representatives of civil society through an orientation workshop, the development of a framework
for CSO operations, a workshop on data analysis, and the development of a CSO database; and
(iv) training of CSO staff in strategic planning, project appraisal, and public procurement in the
context of the preparation of a sustainable national strategy for poverty reduction.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project is rated as modest. The Project helped
improve the country's institutional capacity slightly in the areas of macroeconomic framework and
budget preparation, expenditure monitoring, revenue collection management, public procurement,
debt management, external audit of public agencies, poverty database development and
monitoring, and oversight and control of the management of oil resources. In most of these areas,
however, achievements fell far short of the targeted objectives. Moreover, the Project had no
significant institutional development impact in such areas as the modernization of the civil service
and the reform of the cotton sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Because the Chad-Cameroon pipeline was completed about 12 months ahead of schedule, the
need for operational arrangements to govern the utilization of oil revenues became even more
pressing and highlighted the consequences of delays in implementing some key activities ­ CID,



                                                     - 13 -

HRD reform, Treasury improvements, training of accountants, and availability of procurement
specialists.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government exhibited sustained interest in the Project. However, Ministers' commitment to
ensuring effective implementation seems to have been stronger in the beginning. During
implementation, more attention from cabinet members would have helped sort out Project
management difficulties and ensure that proper action was taken. Clear leadership was missing,
for instance, regarding the corrective measures indicated in the auditors' reports, which should
have been implemented expeditiously. It was also the government's responsibility to put in place
the Project management organs, including an effective Coordination Committee. The high
turnover of policy-makers in ministerial positions was very likely a contributing factor.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project results were affected by the overall performance of the executing agencies (the CE and the
CT), as described in Section 7.6.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Project expenditures totaled US$19.01 million equivalent, compared with a total cost estimate of
US$19.4 million equivalent in the PAD. There was a shortfall of US$1.22 million equivalent in the
government contribution, initially fixed at US$1.9 million equivalent. The IDA credit of SDR12.6
million was fully disbursed. There were two reallocations of project resources to allow for
higher-than-planned expenditures in some components (Economic Reform Monitoring, Poverty
Database and Strategy) and for activities not envisaged at appraisal. As a result, the resources
available for the important PFM component were significantly reduced.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The risk to development outcome is rated high. The Project has been instrumental to the
introduction of (or paved the ground for) a few modern management systems, including new
budget preparation procedures, a more reliable financial management information system, a more
transparent public procurement system, and an innovative petroleum revenue oversight
mechanism. However, whether Chad can consolidate and put these new systems to good use
remains to be seen. Encouraging signs include (i) preparation and adoption by the Chadian
authorities, in 2005, of a comprehensive plan for modernizing PFM that the donors stand ready to
support in a better coordinated way than past assistance; (ii) decision to entrust the responsibility
for the implementation of reforms to permanent organs of the public service (as opposed to ad
hoc enclave project implementation units - PIUs); and (iii) recent reaffirmation by the government
of its commitment to develop a budget management system, including a revenue stabilization
fund, within a medium-term expenditure framework. In spite of these developments, much will
depend on the country situation and the political latitude the government will have to move
forward with the stated reforms--two aspects in which uncertainty remains too high to allow a



                                                    - 14 -

"moderate" or "negligeable" rating of risk to development outcome at this stage.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-up project was under preparation at the end of the GEEP. Capitalizing on the GEEP, the
proposed project will seek to complete the PFM reforms and consolidate the achievements on
monitoring and oversight of the use of petroleum resources. Its components are being designed to
support the PFM system modernization plan adopted by the government.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during Project preparation is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The Project
objectives and design were in line with the government agenda and the CAS. The Bank Team
should also be commended for its timely response (only six months between the identification
mission and negotiations). Project preparation was facilitated by the presence in the Bank team of
experienced staff familiar with Chad's development challenges. As already indicated, however,
several important aspects of the Project would have benefited from additional preparation (see
Section 3).

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during implementation is rated as moderately satisfactory thanks to major
improvements in 2003­05. The Bank maintained close dialogue with the Borrower through
regular supervision missions. However, it waited too long before taking the necessary steps to get
the government and the executing agencies to comply with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement, especially in fiduciary matters. An important weakness in Bank supervision
was the high turnover of Project Task Team Leaders (TTLs)--five in less than four years between
effectiveness in September 2000 and the end of 2003. The high turnover did not reflect decisions
of Bank management. Rather, two TTLs decided to leave the Bank. In addition, some of the
specialists on the Project team also turned over frequently (there were four for the Poverty
Database and Strategy component). Finally, the Bank supervision team did not always include
staff with the required expertise in ICT for PFM reforms. However, there was a factor of
continuity. The TTL who led the MTR in July 2003 worked on Chad for about three years
(including two years in N'Djamena) under different assignments. This gave him the opportunity to
work closely with his predecessor, increased the pace of implementation of several components,
and allowed him to continue supporting his successors almost until the end of the Project.

The MTR was well organized and fruitful. It provided a new impetus and focus to the Project
implementation effort. The MTR and the April 2004 IDA portfolio review were also very
important events regarding the management of the Project because they helped reinstate basic
management tools (work programs, procurement plans, and quarterly activity reports). After the
MTR, the Bank Teams that supervised the Project to its closure focused on getting the Project to
deliver on selected aspects that were often key for the fulfillment of conditions set under the
policy lending operations; on ensuring that basic instruments and principles of sound project
management were reinstated, including agreed annual work programs and proper financial



                                                  - 15 -

reports; and on paving the way for a follow-up capacity-building operation that would capitalize
on the experience of the Project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory because of the
unsatisfactory aspects of Project design, the limited readiness of the Project for implementation,
and the shortcomings in project supervision during the first 30 months of implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during Project preparation is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The
government exhibited strong commitment to the Project, which it considered very important for
the implementation of the Petroleum Revenue Management Strategy. The relevant MDAs
participated actively in the preparation of the Project, capitalizing on their experience with the
two previous IDA-supported institutional development operations. This being said, the Borrower
shares responsibility for the weaknesses in the Project design and its low level of readiness for
implementation at effectiveness. Moreover, the government's resolve to put in place appropriate
instruments to manage oil revenue may have been misleading as regards its commitment to move
forward with reforms in the civil service, the cotton sector, and customs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation is rated as unsatisfactory, despite an
improvement during the last 24 months. First, out of an expected contribution of US$1.9 million,
the government contributed only US$0.62 million (32.6 percent) over the entire period of the
Project. The shortfall was particularly felt toward the end of the Project, when several activities
were put on hold because of a lack of funds. Second, the government was slow in taking
necessary steps to ensure that fiduciary responsibilities under the Project were exercised properly.
The absence of an operational financial management system for the Project until 2003 and of an
adequate audit of Project funds until 2004 is a clear indication of insufficient oversight of Project
management by the Borrower. Finally, the Project would have had a greater developmental
impact if the government had followed up on completed technical work, such as the technical
audit of pilot ministries and cotton sector reform studies.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
This aspect of Project management has been rated as unsatisfactory. Both the CE and the CT
ignored basic project management practices for a long time, including: (i) preparing work
programs and procurement plans by component; (ii) getting the administrative and financial
management manuals approved formally and updated as necessary; (iii) executing the Project on
the basis of agreed budget allocations by component and disbursement categories communicated
to all participating agencies; (iv) arranging for the auditing of Project accounts on an annual basis;
(vi) producing consolidated activity reports regularly; (vii) holding Project coordination meetings
with the participation of the agencies responsible for implementing the various Project
components or subcomponents; (viii) contracting a specialist for monitoring and evaluation; and
(ix) hiring accountants and installing a proper financial management system expeditiously.

Concerning the fiduciary aspects, when audits were eventually carried out for the years 2001,
2002, and 2003, the auditors signaled serious infringements of sound project financial


                                                 - 16 -

management rules and practices that were clearly unacceptable: (i) undocumented expenses
(including advances to staff in managerial positions), making it impossible for the auditor to
certify the accounts; (ii) bank accounts not reconciled for several months (some of them in
overdraft); (iii) discrepancies between the log book and the balance sheet as concerns fixed assets;
and (iv) no inventory lists for consumables and no monitoring of consumption. While the
increased focus on fiduciary aspects by the Bank starting at the end of 2003 led the CE to strive
to apply the recommendations of the auditors during the last 12 months of Project
implementation, the wording of the letter sent by the TTL to the CE and the CT Coordinators on
August 11, 2005, reflects the view of the ICR preparation team: "The two Project units - CE and
CT - have not developed the ability required in the area of accounting and financial management
capacity to manage IDA supported projects according to the provisions of a Credit Agreement."

The performance of the implementing agencies for the various components was uneven. There
was a lack of clarity regarding the role of the MDAs, which were expected to implement
important components and yet were not granted the status of "executing agencies". The managers
of these agencies hold the view that they did not have the appropriate degree of autonomy and
were not sufficiently included in the decision-making process, especially regarding the allocation
of Project funds. Some of these agencies performed satisfactorily under the Project (though with
delays): tax directorate, debt management unit, public procurement directorate, CCSRP, and
Chambre des Comptes (Office of the Auditor General). Other agencies with broader and more
complex agendas under the Project also made significant steps, even when they did not complete
their respective tasks: budget directorate, treasury, INSEED.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory because of the inadequate
coordination of implementing agencies and of planning and follow-up of project activities, the
lack of monitoring and evaluation during implementation, and the major shortcomings in basic
project management practices, starting with the fiduciary aspects.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned from the implementation of the GEEP Project confirm the experience under
Bank operations in Chad as well the broader international experience with institutional reforms
and project management.

Need for a proper policy environment and a strong political commitment to reform.
Effective changes in public sector management require a full ownership of reforms by the
government and national stakeholders and a strong political commitment to carry them through.
The GEEP included a component for which such ownership and commitment were in evidence
(Oversight and Control) but also one that did not benefit from the same degree of ownership and
political will (Human Resources Development). In addition, the favorable policy environment that
the Project benefited from at the beginning was no longer the same three years later. As the
government stance on macroeconomic policies and, in particular, on the management of
petroleum revenue changed, the objectives and approaches of the Project were no longer strictly
aligned with the orientations and practice of the Chadian administration.




                                                - 17 -

Importance of institutional analysis. Project preparation teams must be ready to question
existing institutional arrangements even when they seem to benefit from the support of several key
officials. Not only may existing arrangements not be designed to meet project challenges
effectively, they may reflect entrenched interests that are not necessarily in line with the spirit of
the reform. The questioning of the status quo is particularly necessary when there is a
well-established tradition of cells and special project or program implementation units (supported
by donors) that by nature are not responsible for delivering on permanent operational functions
and therefore are not in a position to mainstream policy and institutional reforms through changes
in day-to-day business processes.

Chad may not have had many other options beside the use of PIUs in the early 1990s when it
embarked on the reconstruction of the public administration after the civil war. However, it does
not seem that the practice was sufficiently questioned several years later during Project
preparation in 1999 and 2000. The Project could have been a vehicle for accelerating the
rehabilitation or restructuring of regular policy formulation and coordination organs of the
administration and for the establishment and consolidation of arrangements sustainable in the
longer term without donor financing. Because Chadian governments will have to manage a
petroleum economy for many years to come, steps could have been taken to mainstream the new
economic management instruments supported by the Project within the administration.

Need for a comprehensive approach to develop institutional capacity in a sustainable
manner. There has been a serious capacity-building effort under the GEEP Project, including the
recruitment of junior national consultants (most of whom have been retained in the civil service)
and staff training. However, the transfer of skills and information by itself is not sufficient to build
institutional capacity within public administrations. Three other important elements are the
readiness of the host organizations to absorb new and more skilled personnel; an enabling and
stimulating environment for change, for the creation of which the commitment of the senior-most
authorities is a key factor; and effective convergence and coordination of donors' activities.

Computerization of business processes is a complex and challenging undertaking that needs
a clear strategy and proper planning. Successful implementation of modern ICT in a public
administration requires: (i) a thorough understanding of the existing operational system; (ii) the
development of a well-thought-out roadmap that takes into account the key elements of the
reforms, their implications regarding the features of the targeted operational system, and the
constraints that need to be overcome (staff skills, office facilities, suppliers availability); (iii) clear
identification of the phases to be followed in the migration from one system to another; and (iv) a
total commitment to the computerization exercise from the country authorities, reflected in a
close monitoring of activities by cabinet members and secured financing for the completion of the
exercise. The outright choice of a particular software before appropriate institutional or business
process analysis is not advisable, while an incomplete or lagging computerization exercise is
always a source of waste.

Critical value of basic project management tools and importance of effective Bank
supervision. The outputs and impact of the GEEP Project would have been greater if the Project
execution units (CE and CT) had systematically applied the basic project management tools



                                                - 18 -

discussed in Sub-section 7.6. This would have ensured a more effective use of Project resources
and enabled the Chadian officials and the Bank teams to devote more time to substantive reform
issues. From a Bank perspective, developments during the last 24 months of the Project confirm
that close supervision of routine aspects of project management by Bank teams matters. In this
case, the increased attention given to administrative and financial management of the GEEP by the
Bank Project Team provided the incentive to the Borrower to press for changes in the
management of the Project.

Risks associated with the oversight and control function. The CCSRP's experience during the
Project points to the need for additional support to this body in order to enable its members to
develop an independent yet educated opinion on issues that do not necessarily fall under their
areas of expertise. However, the CCSRP should resist the temptation to become a large agency
with underutilized in-house expertise in a variety of fields. There will also be a need to clarify the
role and position of the CCSRP in the public expenditure chain. For instance, in addition to the
review of the draft annual budget, which is in order, the CCSRP is asked to clear selected
commitments before the expenses are processed. This practice could lead to conflicts of interest
because during the CCSRP's ex-post assessment of the quality of programs and actual
expenditure, it could find itself having to criticize decisions it had initially cleared.

The CCSRP's experience also points to another lesson, namely that the efficiency of such a body
depends largely on the government's commitment to provide it sufficient space to fully exercise its
independent oversight function, as well as to follow up effectively on its recommendations.

Phasing of reforms and facilitating the sustainability of commitment to change. Finally, the
GEEP Project illustrates the need to phase policy and institutional changes not only for political
feasibility reasons but also because of the limited absorptive capacity of the public service in most
developing countries. While the types of institutional reform targeted under the Project needed to
be designed within a common and coherent framework, such as the one sketched in the PAD, the
implementation of the reforms could have been planned over a longer period of time and in an
explicitly phased manner. Indeed, phasing reforms can be a useful instrument to nurture and
consolidate ownership and to help sustain the momentum for reforms, as the successful
completion of one phase often provides an incentive to embark on the next one.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 The Borrower has assessed the project, output, and financial execution as well as constraints and
 deficiencies during execution. While the Borrower has positively appreciated the Project's impact
 in terms of outcome he concluded that the Project fell short of expectations because of lack of
 financial resources. As regards to realisations, the Borrower acknowledged improvements in: (i)
 budget classification and preparation; and (ii) IFMIS with CID installation. He also pointed out
 the progress made in: (i) debt management with the installation of SYGADE; (ii) the control and
 audit function with the creation of CCSRP and the support of full functioning of the Chambre
 des Comptes, IGF, and the Parliament; and (iii) recource mobilization with support to Customs
 and Tax Directorate. The Borrower stressed the output in capacity-building related activities,
 such as initial training of high-level staff in public financial management, including procurement



                                                   - 19 -

 aspects. The other achievements are seen in the creation of poverty database and Poverty
 Reduction Strategy Paper elaboration. He acknowledged the deficiencies in Human Resources
 Management components but underlined the realization of the audit of nine ministries in view to
 reorganise the administration and make it in a position to manage the economy on the eve of oil
 era.

 The Borrower analyzed the mixed outcomes as a result of internal deficiencies, combined with
 weak monitoring from the Bank team. On the internal side, the Borrower recognize weak
 implementation and unavailability of projected treasury funding, and lack of capacity to properly
 monitor the Project. Moreover, there were delays in setting-up the software designed for the
 financial management of the Project (TOMPRO) and in recruiting the financial specialist. The
 frequent changes in TTLs was felt by the Borrower as a key factor in insufficient supervision and
 monitoring that led to increasing delays in sorting out the multiple obstacles that the Project was
 faced with.

 However, the Borrower still acknowledges positive outcomes from the Project in areas, such as:
 (i) good governance with achievements in procurement, audit and control of PFM, and (ii)
 reforms management. Conversely, the Borrower pointed out the limited impact of PFM reforms
 that fail to deliver expected outcome, for instance, national expertise in oil management
 (technical and financial). Regarding prospects, the Borrower thinks that it is likely that Human
 Resource Management reforms, economic reforms, public finance control and audit reforms have
 new impetus and meet expected results in a near future. He called for acceleration in the
 preparation of a new operation to support the implementation of the remaining activities.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in chronological order:
Eugen Scanteie; Philipe Callier; Catherine Laurent; Elisabeth Huybens; Jérôme Chevalier;
Gradimir Radisic.




                                               - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Indicator                                                        Actual/latest estimate
1. Modernization and harmonization of the budget and             Largely met
accounting nomenclatures, updating of the economic and
functional classification of expenditures, and extension of this
classification to investment operations (to be completed by
December 31, 2000)
2. Execution of the consolidated budget on the basis of the      Partly met. Should be
new budget nomenclature, and of a macroeconomic and              completed in 2006
public finance framework (as of fiscal year 2002).
3. Adoption by the Government of an Action Plan concerning       Met (with two years'
the transition from public investment program (PIP) to sector    delay)
expenditure programs (SEP), with a view to integrating the
SEP in the consolidated 2002 budget on a pilot basis (June
30, 2001).
4. Implementation of a streamlined and simplified budget         Initial steps taken. Should
expenditure    system    and   implementation    of   improved   be completed in the
procedures for the internal control of expenditures (as of       beginning of 2007
fiscal year 2001).
5. Submission to the Auditor General (Chambre des Comptes        Substantially met starting
) of the final budget accounts for the preceding fiscal year     in 2003
before March 31 of each year (as March 31, 2001).
6. Submission of the Settlement Law (Loi de Reglement) to        Substantially met starting
the Parliament before December 31 of each year for the           in 2003
preceding fiscal year (as of December 31, 2001).
7. Implementation of an improved system of public debt           Substantially met (with
management, including installation and validation of the         two years' delay
database, and training of users (December 31, 2000).
8. Annual review of public expenditures (as of fiscal year       Largely met starting in
2000).                                                           2000
9. Validation of two household survey reports, including         Objective revised to one
production of a CD-ROM (December 31, 2001, and                   survey only. Field work
December 31, 2004).                                              and data entry done. Task
                                                                 to be completed in 2006
10. Preparation of two reports on the community surveys of       Not met. Work not
economic and social services, including a CD-ROM database        started
and cartographic treatment (December 31, 2001, and
December 31, 2004).
11. Adoption of an interim national participatory strategy for   Met
poverty reduction (October 31, 2000).
12. Adoption of a national participatory strategy for poverty    Met in 2003 (on the basis
reduction based on a comprehensive database of development       of the data available)



                                               - 21 -

and poverty indicators (October 31, 2002).
13. Final proposals on the reform of the civil service statutes, Not met. Law adopted
including implementation decrees (June 30, 2000).                but implementation
                                                                 decrees not signed yet
14. Harmonization of the Payroll and Civil Service census        Not met. Census have
(June 30 2000).                                                  been conducted but
                                                                 harmonization between
                                                                 Payroll and Civil Service
                                                                 database has not initiated.
15. Implementation of public administration reform, giving First step taken through the
priority to the ministries of Finance and Economic Planning, functional audit of ministries.
and to pilot administrations in the ministries of Health,
Education, Agriculture, Livestock, and Public Works
(October 31, 2003).
16. Operational implementation of the General Auditor's Largely met by the middle of
Office (March 31, 2001).                                        2004
17. Operational implementation of the Committee for Control Met
and Oversight of Petroleum Resources (CCSRP, June 30,
2004).
18. Implementation of an information, education and Partly met. Two seminars
communication (IEC) program on the outcomes of the conducted in 2002 and 2003
structural adjustment program and the implementation of the
strategy for the management of the petroleum economy (as of
fiscal year 2000).
19. Submission to the High Inter-ministerial Committee (HCI) Met in substance. Progress
of quarterly reports on the implementation of the structural report on the status of
adjustment program, and of a monthly summary of reform submitted twice a
macroeconomic indicators (as of March 3, 2000).                 year
20. Transmittal to IDA of quarterly reports on the financial Started only in 2004
implementation of the Project, including the consolidation of
project accounts (with the understanding that these reports
will be produced on the basis of the new Project Management
Reports within 18 months from the date of the project
becoming effective).




                                               - 22 -

 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




 Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

              Component                         Appraisal     Actual      Actual in
                                                Estimate                Percentage of
                                                                          Appraisal

 Public Financial Management                      8.20         2.90         35%
 Poverty data Base and Strategy                   3.00         4.56        152%
 Human Resource Management                        1.30         1.34        103%
 Oversight and Control                            1.30         1.22         94%
 Monitoring Economic Reform                       3.70         8.89        240%
 Refund of PPF ( included in                                   0.10
 contingencies in PAD)

 Total Baseline Cost                             17.50
 Contingencies                                    1.90
             TOTAL COST                          19.40         19.01        98%
Source. Government of Chad (Cellule economique)

 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

 Component                     Total        IDA       GVT   Total   IDA     GVT
                               at APR       at APR    at    Actual  Actual  Actual
                                                      APR
 Public Financial              8.20         7.70      0.50  2.90    2.88    0.02
 Management
 Poverty data Base and         3.00         2.80      0.20  4.56    4.42    0.14
 Strategy
 Human Resource                1.30         1.20      0.10  1.34    1.30    0.04
 Management
 Oversight and Control         1.30         1.20      0.10  1.22    1.20    0.02
 Monitoring Economic           3.70         3.10      0.60  8.89    8.49    0.40
 Reform
 Refund of PPF (and            1.90         1.50      0.40  0.10    0.10
 Contingencies in PAD)

 Total                         19.40        17.50     1.90  19.01   18.39   0.62
Source. Government of Chad (Cellule economique)




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/1999                   3    CONSULTANTS
                                        2    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                        1    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                                        2    PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                        1    SR. PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                        1    INFORMATION SYSTEM

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1999                   3    CONSULTANTS
              10/1999                   2    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                        1    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                                        2    PUBLIC
                                             SECTORMANAGEMENTT
                                             SPEC.
                                        1    SR. PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                        1    INFORMATION SYSTEM

 Supervision

              09/26/2000                1    CONSULTANT (1)                   S               S
              04/22/2002                2    ECONOMIST (2)                    S               S
              05/27/2004                4    TTL (1); PUBLIC SECTOR           U               S
                                             MANAGMEN (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2)
              05/27/2004                4    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR SPEC (1);
                                             SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SR.PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              10/28/2004                4    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR SPEC (1);
                                             SR.ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGMENT
                                             SPEC. (1
              07/28/2005                2    TEAM LEADER (1) ; SR.
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPEC.


 ICR
              08/04/2005                1     SR. PUBLIC SECTOR               U               U
                                              MANAGEMENT SPEC.




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                            N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    16                           82
  Supervision                            250                        1190.5
  ICR                                      46                           58
  Total                                  307                        1426.5




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, dated December 29,
1999 (Report No 19427-CD)

2. Development Credit Agreement for the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, dated March
20, 2000 (Credit No 33160 CD)

3. Report of the Mid Term Review conducted in June/July 2003

4. Aide-memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

5. Government Project Progress Reports

6. Consultant reports




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments




                                       - 30 -

- 31 -

- 32 -

- 33 -

- 34 -

- 35 -

- 36 -

- 37 -

- 38 -

- 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

