Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19427-CD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION (USD 17.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
FOR
MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT
December 29, 1999
AFTM3
AFC07
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 29, 1999)
Currency Unit = US:D
CFAF 651.27 - US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD          Agence Fran,aise de D6veloppement (French aid agency)
AGO          Auditor General's Office
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCSRP        Committee for Oversight and Control of Petroleum Revenue
CE           Cellule Economique (Economic Unit)
CESRAP       Civil Service Reform Unit
CNAR         Centre national de recherche appliqu6e
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GEEP         Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
GoT          Government of Chad
GTZ          German Technical Cooperation
HCI          High Interministerial Committee
IAPSO        Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
IEC          Information-Education-Communication
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IGF          General Inspection of Finance
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MEPDC        Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PMR          Project Monitoring Report
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SENAREC    National Secretariat for Capacity Building
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TA           Technical Assistance
Vice President             :             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director           :             Serge Michailof
Sector Manager             :             Luca Barbone
Team Leader                :             Eugen Scanteie



Chad
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .............................1
1. Project development objective .......................                                        .1
2. Key performance indicators .......................,,.1
B Strategic Context ......................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................5
C   Project Description Summary ..................................................................i6
1. Project components ....................                                                .....6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................7
3. Benefits and target population .....................                                                      ,.,.8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                            .8
D Project Rationale .11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................    11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ......................................                        13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ........... .................................. .. 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................                          13
E Summary Project Analysis ............................................                                                          14
1. Economic and Financial ............................................                                               14
2. Technical .................... . . . . .                                                . . . . 14
3. Institutional ........                                                                                             14
4. Social ...................                                                                                         14
5. Environmental assessment .14
6. Participatory approach ......................                                                                      14
F Sustainability and Risks .15
1. Sustainability .........                                                                                          15
2. Critical Risks .........                                                                                           15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ......................                                                              16
G Main Loan Conditions ............................                                                                              16
1. Effectiveness Conditions .1............................                                                            16



2. Other ............................................................................................................................. 16
H   Readiness for Implementation ................................................................................................... 16
I Compliance with Bank Policies .....................................                                                           17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .....................................                                                            19
Annex 2: Project Description ..................................... 23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .....................................                                                           33
Annex 4: Financial Summary .....................................                                                                35
Annex 5: Environmental Data Sheet .....................................                                                          37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arangements .39
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .51
Annex 9: Status of Bank Group Operations in Chad .53
Annex 10: Chad at a Glance                               ..55
Annex 11: Revenue Management: Republic of Chad    .                                              .57
Map



Chad
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFCO7
Date: December 29, 1999                      Team Leader: Eugen Scanteie
Country Manager/Director: Serge Michailof    Sector Manager/Director: Luca Barbone
Project ID: TD-PE-62840                      Sector: BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [I  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [X] Credit      [] Grant       H] Guarantee     [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): USD 17.5 million /SDR 12.6 million equivalent
Proposed terms:    [I To be defined    [XI Multicurrency      [ ] Single currency
[X] Standard          [] Fixed              [] LIBOR-
Variable                                   based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:            40
Commitment fee:                0.50%
Service charge:                0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:
Government                                               1.9              0.0               1.9
IBRD
IDA                                                                       17.5             17.5
Other (specify)
Total:                                                   1.9             17.5              19.4
Borrower: Government of Chad
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Cellule Economique and Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       2.0         3.5          3.5          3.5         3.0          2.0
Cumulative        2.0          5.5         9.0         12.5        15.5         17.5
Project implementation period: FY2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: April 30, 2000         Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agencies: Ministry of Finance, and Cellule Economique
Contact persons:     Mr. Bichara Chdrif Daoussa, Minister of Finance
Mr. Abakar Adoum Haggar, Coordinator of the Cellule Economique
Address:             N'Djamdna, Chad
Tel: 235-52-38-88            Fax: 235-52-29-50             E-mail: cas(,intnet.td
OCS PAD Form: October 9,1998






Project Appraisal Document. Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project     Page I
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project would help Chad build capacity to implement its petroleum revenue management
strategy (see Annex I 1-C) to enable it to effectively absorb and allocate expected oil revenue, and thus
pursue the poverty-reduction objective of petroleum resources development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
i. Modernization and harmonization of the budget and accounting nomenclatures, updating of the
economic and functional classification of expenditures, and extension of this classification to
investment operations (December 31, 2000).
ii. Execution of the consolidated budget on the basis of the new budget nomenclature, and of a
macroeconomic and public finance framework (as of fiscal year 2002).
iii. Adoption by the Government of an Action Plan concerning the transition from the public
investment program (PIP) to sector expenditure programs (SEP), with a view to integrating the SEP
in the consolidated 2002 budget on a pilot basis (June 30, 2001).
iv. Implementation of a streamlined and simplified budget expenditure system, and implementation of
improved procedures for the internal control of expenditures (as of fiscal year 2001).
v. Submission to the Auditor General (Chambre des Comptes) of the final budget accounts for the
preceding fiscal year before March 31 of each year (as of March 31, 2001).
vi. Submission of the Settlement Law (Loi de Rlglement) to the Parliament before December 31 of
each year for the preceding fiscal year (as of December 31, 2001).
vii. Implementation of an improved system of public debt management, including installation and
validation of the database, and training of users (December 31, 2000).
viii. Annual review of public expenditures (as of fiscal year 2000).
ix. Validation of two household survey reports, including production of a CD-ROM (December 31,
2001, and December 31, 2004).
x. Preparation of two reports on the community surveys of economic and social services, including a
CD-ROM database and cartographic treatment (December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2004).
xi. Adoption of an interim national participatory strategy for poverty reduction (October 31, 2000).
xii. Adoption of a national participatory strategy for poverty reduction based on a comprehensive
database of development and poverty indicators (October 3 1, 2002).
xiii. Final proposals on the reform of the civil service statutes, including implementation decrees (June
30, 2000).
xiv. Harmonization of the Payroll and Civil Service census (June 30, 2000).
xv. Implementation of public administration reform, giving priority to the ministries of Finance and
Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation, and to pilot administrations in the ministries
of Health, Education, Agriculture, Livestock, and Public Works (October 31, 2003).
xvi. Operational implementation of the General Auditor's Office (March 31, 2001).
xvii. Operational implementation of the Committee for Control and Oversight of Petroleum Resources
(CCSRP, June 30, 2004).
xviii. Implementation of an information, education and communication (IEC) program on the outcomes of
the structural adjustment program and the implementation of the strategy for the management of the
petroleum economy (as of fiscal year 2000).



Project Appraisal Document. Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project        Page 2
xix. Submission to the High Interministerial Committee (HCI) of quarterly reports on the
implementation of the structural adjustment program, and of a monthly summary of macroeconomic
indicators (as of March 31, 2000).
xx. Transmittal to IDA of quarterly reports on the financial iimplementation of the project, including the
consolidation of project accounts (with the understanding that these reports will be produced on the
basis of the new Project Management Reports within 18 months from the date of the project
becoming effective).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R96- lO/1      Date of latest CAS discussion: February 15, 1996
New CAS was circulated to the Executive Directors for discussion during the last quarter of FY00
The project is consistent with the Bank Group CAS discussed by the Executive Directors on February 15,
1996, as well as with the CAS circulated to the Executive Directors on June 1, 1999. The mobilization of
oil revenue is key to Chad's central development objective of aiccelerating economic growth and reducing
poverty. The Bank's assistance strategy aims to help Chad develop its petroleum resources, make the best
developmental use of revenues generated by future petroleum exports, and avoid the pitfalls encountered
by other oil and mineral exporters. The strategy would support development of the Doba oil fields,
construction of a pipeline from these fields to Cameroon's Atlantic coast at Kribi, and Chad's transition to
the petroleum era. The latter will focus on improving the quality and effectiveness of public institutions,
and helping remove constraints to the development of non-oil activities, including further liberalization of
the economy, improved macroeconomic management, and lessening of human and infrastructure
bottlenecks. At the same time, the CAS recognizes that development of petroleum resources carries
significant economic, governance, and social risks.
The CAS identified several key avenues to improve the outlook for the successful transformation of oil
revenue into sustainable growth and poverty reduction and mitigate risks:
i. a more participatory development process to enhance inclusiveness, strengthen rapidly transparency
and accountability, and give a stronger voice to users of public services and the civil society;
ii. improved governance and accountability safeguards to prevent the rise in corruption often
associated with the sudden influx of oil revenues;
iii. sound policy for oil revenue management and strong legal framework to ensure its implementation;
iv. capacity building of public institutions responsible for the implementation of the oil revenue
management policy;
v. prudent and forward-looking macroeconomic management, including broadening of the non-oil
fiscal base and preservation of external aid flows;
vi. decentralization of public service delivery and empowerment of beneficiaries; and
vii. improved legal framework and the functioning of the judiciary.
The project would: (i) help improve the quality and effectiveness of Chad's public resource management,
with a view to ensuring the priority utilization of oil revenue to alleviate key infrastructure and human
resources bottlenecks that constrain growth and poverty reducltion, and mitigating the potential negative
macroeconomic, governance and social impact of oil exports; l(ii) help build Chad's capacity to increase
public expenditure in priority poverty reduction activities (basic health and education, social affairs,
essential infrastructure, and rural development), while maintaining a sound macroeconomic environment
conducive to economic growth, increasing the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the
government's finances, and promoting a participatory approach; and (iii) foster better governance.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project       Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The experience of oil and mineral exporting countries demonstrates that mismanagement of windfall
revenues often leads to distortions, waste, corruption, and social tensions. Expenditures exceeding the
absorptive capacity of the economy could distort relative prices, appreciate the effective exchange rate
and reduce competitiveness. Hasty deployment of oil revenue could exceed the government's ability to
manage public expenditure efficiently, fostering inefficiencies and waste even when goals are sound.
International experience demonstrates that the deposit of oil revenue in domestic banks can lead to
excessive credit extension and jeopardize fiscal viability, and the viability of the financial sector. Oil
revenue is also particularly visible, hence politically sensitive. Non-transparent, inefficient or inequitable
management of revenues could fuel social tensions. The experience of other oil exporters demonstrates
the difficulty of managing these risks, and the resulting costs to their economic and social fabric. Chad's
faces a particular challenge given the immaturity of its democratic institutions, the weakness of its
economic management institutions and capacities, and existing social tensions.
Chad's capacity weakness is of particular concern. This weakness is all-encompassing and greater than in
most sub-Saharan Africa countries, reflecting the impact of almost three decades of civil strife:
* Strategic economic thinking is influenced by obsolete planning approaches and largely supplied by
external advisers; the statistical database for monitoring the state of the economy and developmental
and poverty indicators is at best partial, lacks continuity, and is not integrated with policy making and
public resource management decisions; and there is no coherent framework for formulating
development and poverty reduction strategies.
* Public sector capacity is seriously constrained by lack of qualified staff and adequate resources, and
unmotivated staff.
+ Public resource management is weak: the fiscal base is narrow and fragile; the expenditure and cash
management systems are cumbersome and non-transparent; accountability is weak at best, and is not
enforced; and there is no reliable financial management information system.
* Progress in recent years towards integrating current and capital spending notwithstanding, public
expenditure policies and implementation lack a comprehensive framework and explicit policies. The
Public Investment Program (PIP) is largely externally-financed and most public investment projects
are de facto managed by external financing agencies.
* There are virtually no controls of the public sector outside the executive branch of the government,
and little public transparency and accountability of public sector management. The Parliament is
inexperienced and lacks the technical capacity to monitor the economy and participate effectively in
the preparation and execution of the budget. An Auditor General's Office was created in 1999 as one
of the three specialized branches of the Supreme Court. Its mandate is currently limited to controlling
the legality of public expenditures. This mandate should be extended to control the opportunity and
efficiency of public resource use, and the Office should receive the means to fulfill this mandate.
* Local capacities are particularly weak. Local administration is unable to manage the provision of
basic services to population. The legislative framework for administrative decentralization is being
developed (see below).
+ With rare exceptions, the private sector and non-governmental organizations lack management
capacity and have been so far unable to enter a meaningful dialogue with the government. The same
situation applies to professional and trade associations, including trade unions and consumer groups.
+ The media are reasonably free, but must keep better informed and improve access to the bulk of the
population which lives in rural areas and is often illiterate.
The Government has recognized the challenge of managing oil revenue and the weakness of the country's
capacities. It has taken already some important first steps to address these issues, and appears determined



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project       Page 4
to use the time before oil exports come on stream to strengthen Chad's capacity to manage oil revenue
soundly. Measures already taken include in particular the adoption of a Letter of Policy on Petroleum
Revenue Management (Strategy for the Management of the Petroleum Economy, Annex 11 -C) which
provides a coherent policy framework for the management of oil revenue, and of a Law on Petroleum
Revenue Management (Annex 11-B) approved by the Parliament on December 30, 1998, as well as
legislative acts on administrative decentralization (July-August 1999).
These measures confirm the Government's determination to learn from international experience and apply
a new paradigm for the management of oil revenue. The mechanisms for petroleum revenue management
are intended to preserve the commitment of future governmients to efficient and transparent use of oil
revenue for poverty reduction. The main policy orientations of Chad's strategy for managing petroleum
revenue are:
i. Transparent accounting and allocation of revenues within a comprehensive budget, specifying the
distribution of oil revenue among saving, priority expenditure for poverty reduction, and other
government expenditure.
ii. Targeting of petroleum revenues to poverty reduction. The bulk of oil revenue will be used to
increase expenditure in health, education, rural developiment, and basic infrastructure. Oil-financed
developmental spending will be incremental to government expenditure before oil arrives.
iii. Commitment of public expenditure on the basis of sound sector strategies and expenditure
programs, grounded in strong participatory design and implementation.
iv. Strong financial controls and accountability of public officials.
v. Close and comprehensive monitoring of development and poverty indicators, to underpin a
participatory poverty reduction strategy, allocate resources, and assess the impact of expenditures.
vi. Public administration reform, including strengthening of budget programming, execution and
control, and build-up of sustainable capacities for econornic and financial management.
vii. Public oversight, control and transparency, including establishment of an Auditor General's Office
and of an independent Committee for the Oversight and Control of Oil Revenue associating the civil
society (CCSRP), and dissemination of public information about policies, revenues, and their use.
The Government has also taken institutional actions directed at addressing capacity weaknesses:
* Chad has put in place since 1997 a National Secretariat for Capacity Building (SENAREC) with a
view to joining the African Initiative for Capacity Building. A national strategy for capacity building
was discussed and endorsed by a Round Table meeting in October 1998.
* In 1998, the Government consolidated the monitoring of the adjustment program, the preparation of
the transition to the petroleum economy, and SENAREC into an Economic Unit at the Presidency
(Cellule Economique, CE). The CE was transferred to the Ministry of Economic Promotion,
Development and Cooperation (MEPDC) in December 1999.
* The Government has consolidated in the Presidency the coordination of all activities related to the
Doba petroleum development.
* In 1999, the Authorities put in place an advisory group for civil service reform (CESRAP, Cellule
technique chargie de la mise en oeuvre de la Reforme de /'administration publique), consisting of
senior civil servants, whose mandate is to coordinate the implementation of a comprehensive long-
term strategy for civil service reform adopted by the Government in 1998 after an extensive
participatory process.
* Also in 1999, Chad put in place the Supreme Court, which includes an Auditor General's Office
(Chambre des Comptes).



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 5
*  The Parliament discussed in July 1999 the status of decentralized local communities and the electoral
system.
*  The High Interministerial Committee (HCI) in charge of adjustment has broadened its scope to take a
pernanent leading role in taking policy decisions in all development activities, including those related
to the Doba project and related capacity building operations.
Implementation of structural reforms since 1995 has improved Chad's chances to overcome economic
management weaknesses. The adjustment program supported by the Bretton Woods Institutions has
made remarkable progress overall, lapses in content and continuity notwithstanding. The Government has
addressed a wide range of difficult issues, including reform of tax policy and administration; public
expenditure reallocation to contain the wage bill, reduce its relative importance, and increase
development expenditure (especially for health and education); privatization of most public enterprises
and regulatory reform to liberalize the economy; demobilization of about half of the military; a
participatory diagnosis process for public administration reform which led to the adoption of a
comprehensive long-term strategy; and restructuring of the pension system. The Government has
expressed strong determination to continue the reform program. A new arrangement for the 1999-2002
period was negotiated with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in November 1999. A Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) was approved by IDA on May 4, 1999.
The reform program has strengthened Chad's macroeconomic performance, fiscal and financial viability,
and capacities for economic management. Economic growth has averaged 5 percent p.a. since 1996,
inflation has been kept under control, and fiscal revenue was projected at 9.4 percent of GDP in 1999,
compared with 4.9 percent in 1994. Fiscal sustainability has improved - though it remains largely
dependent on the quality of public expenditure. Key economic administrations have become more
capable, owing in part to external assistance (the IDA Capacity building project, and technical assistance
provided by IMF and other external partners).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The scope and design of the proposed project are determined by the specific provisions of theStrategy for
the Management of the Petroleum Economy and the Law on Oil Revenue Management. Since the entire
oil revenue will accrue to the Government, the central issue is capacity building for public financial
management within a sound macroeconomic framework. Upstream, the issue is building Chad's capacity
to understand and manage the dimensions of poverty, and translating poverty objectives into public
expenditure choices. Downstream, the issue is building adequate checks and balances on the
government's financial management, i.e., external oversight and control mechanisms and the "droit de
regard" of the civil society. Cross-cutting issues include the sustainability of the capacity building, i.e.,
implementation of institutional and civil service reform, and continued support for the management of
economic reform and the macroeconomic program.
The project design is driven by several strategic choices:
i. First, the project has been designed as an integrated package. To meet the objectives of its oil
revenue management strategy, Chad must strengthen public financial management, strategic
planning, and oversight and control, while ensuring the sustainability of its capacity building efforts
through the reform of the civil service, and continuing economic reform. The same rationale
underpins the proposed integration of supervision and financial management arrangements.
ii. Second, project activities address mainly capacity building in the executive branch of the
government and the implementation of the Law on Oil Revenue Management. Capacity building for
the legislature, the judiciary, the private sector and the non-governmental institutions, and the
media, would need to be addressed through other means (Institutional Development Fund grants and
other Bank projects, such as the Petroleum Sector Management and Capacity Building Project, as
well as through support from other multilateral or bilateral partners). This choice was prompted by



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project        Page 6
the need to streamline as much as possible this operation with a view to ensuring its manageability,
as well as by financial considerations.
iii. Third, the project scope is essentially limited to the central administration based in N'Djamena. This
choice was determined by the incipient stage of political and administrative decentralization, as well
as by the need to focus the project on the central objective of implementing the strategy for oil
revenue management. It should be noted that a proposed parallel capacity-building operation to be
financed by IDA (Petroleum Sector Management and Capacity Building Project) would support
capacity building in the producing region, and that IDA investment operations and other external
partners support decentralization efforts.
iv. Fourth, this 5-year project would be implemented in two phases. A first phase of 18 months would
allow incremental implementation of the project, and mitigate the complexity of the proposed
package, and concerns with Chad's absorptive capacity. It would implement urgent project activities
already prepared, and continue the technical preparation of activities to be implemented in the
second phase. A mid-term review after the first phase would revisit the scope, design and
implementation arrangements of the second phase of the project.
v. Fifth, the project would seek to foster permanent capacity building in the Chadian administration
through two main avenues. In the first place, it would support public administration reform within
the broad strategy adopted by the Government, giving priority to strengthening human resources in
the key administrations responsible for the management of oil revenue (Finance, Economic
Promotion. Development and Cooperation, and the strategic planning and expenditure programming
departments in the priority sector ministries). This choice was driven by pragmatic concerns with
Chad's ability to finance and implement comprehensive administrative reform before oil arrives.
And in the second place, it would hire local staff to be trained on the job, on terms and conditions
consistent with the current employment terms in the civil service, rather than rely on technical
assistance. The Government would hire the respective staff on a permanent basis prior to, or when
oil revenue will be coming on stream.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for detailed description and Annex 3 for detailed cost breakdown).
The project would have five components:
* Strengthening public financial management. Increasing efficiency, transparency and accountability of
public financial management. Upgrading and rationalization of budget cycle, including the macro-
economic and public expenditure framework, budget programming, revenue mobilization,
expenditure circuits, debt and cash flow management, and internal control and audit system.
* Poverty database and strategy. Analytical and policy underpinning for allocating public resources and
assessing the impact of public expenditure on povert reduction. Support to producing and
maintaining poverty database and reporting system, and participatory articulation of a strategy for
poverty reduction.
* Human resources development. Implementation of administrative reform, giving priority to
institutional and staff reform (organization, job profiles, training, recruitment, incentive system,
accountability) in pilot economic administrations. This would include a baseline institutional
assessment, the update of the civil service statutes, and the reconciliation of payroll and civil service
databases to eliminate "ghost" employees.
* Oversight and control. Implementation of oversight capacities in the Auditor General's Office and the
civil society, as well as the information and consultation of the civil society on the implementation of
the petroleum revenue management strategy.
*  Monitoring economic reform and coordinating capacity building. Support to existing institutions in



Project Appraisal Document. Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project             Page 7
charge of monitoring structural adjustment and coordinating capacity building (the CAS and
SENAREC units in the Cellule Economique), following the completion of the ongoing capacity-
building project funded by IDA (Cr. No.2818), which is expected to be fully disbursed by end-2000.
Project Costs by Component
Before Taxes and Duties *
_          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -  ----
Public financial ~   ~   -Policy & Institutional       8.2       420%         7.7        93%
management               Development
Poverty data and strategy    Policy & Institutional    3.0        16%         2.8        93%
Development
Human resources          Policy & Institutional         1.3        7%         1.2        93%
development              Development
Oversight and control    Policy & institutional        1.3        7%          1.2        93%
Development
Monitoring reform       Institutional Development      3.7        19%         3.1        83%
Contingencies (including                                1.5        8%         1.4        93%
PPF refinancing)
Total Project Costs                                   19.4       100%        17.5        90%
*The Govemment assumes responsibility for the payment of local taxes and duties, in addition to counterpart funding of project
costs. Totals may not add because of rounding
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would help design and implement several policy reforms, including:
i. consolidation of the current and capital budgets, and of domestic and external financing;
ii. participatory articulation and implementation of a national strategy for poverty reduction;
iii. gradual replacement of the project-based public investment program (PIP) with sector expenditure
programs;
iv. integration of programming and control functions, and preparation of settlement laws on budget
execution, to increase transparency and accountability of budget execution;
v. expanded mandate of the Auditor General's to include control of the opportunity of public
expenditure;
vi. association of the civil society to the control and oversight of public expenditure financed by oil
revenue, through the Committee for Oversight and Control of Petroleum Revenue (CCSRP);
vii. association of development partners to the formulation of a strategy for poverty reduction.
Institutional reforms supported by the project would include:
i. administrative, personnel and incentive system reform in pilot administrations;
ii. streamlining the organization of the Ministry of Finance to consolidate internal control in the
Budget department, and public debt management in Treasury;
iii. strengthening of the internal audit system in the Ministry of Finance (General Inspection of Finance,
Inspection Generale des Finances, IGF);



Project Appraisal Document. Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 8
iv. effective implementation of the mandate of the Auditor General's Office;
v. creation and operation of CCSRP.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to yield several major benefits:
i. First, transforming oil revenue into public expenditure targeted at poverty reduction. The project
would help produce the information needed to capture the dimensions of poverty, design an
appropriate strategy for poverty reduction, and underpin sector expenditure programs.
ii. Second, increasing efficiency, transparency and accountability of public resource management. The
project would help Chad consolidate its budget, gradually implement international standards of
fiscal transparency, and build control and oversight capacities.
iii. Third, saving a portion of oil revenue for future generations, as well as eventual surpluses. TheLaw
on Petroleum Revenue Management provides for saving 10 percent of royalties and dividends in an
external saving fund for future generations. The project wvould help Chad avoid inefficient spending
and possibly save additional funds.
iv. Fourth, building more permanent capacity in Chad's public administration. The project supports
human resources development through use of national staff rather than technical assistance, and
sustainable institutional reform in key economic administrations.
v. Fifth, fostering a more participatory approach to development. The civil society and other
development partners would be associated with the formulation of a poverty reduction strategy and
the oversight and control of oil revenues, and would be beKter informed and consulted.
vi. Sixth, fostering further economic reform and macroeconomic discipline by support for monitoring
and coordination of the economic reform program.
The target population is Chad's largely poor population. The project would help Chad transform oil
revenue into increased expenditures for reducing poverty and promoting economic growth. The oil
revenue management program would apply the bulk of revenues towards closing the social and
infrastructure gap created by almost three decades of civil strife, by increasing public spending for basic
education and health, rural development and the environment, and essential infrastructure (roads, water
supply) to benefit the population at large.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: 2000-2004, in two phases. A first phase over a period of 18 months would be
followed by a mid-term review to update the design, activities,, and financing plan of the second phase.
This review could benefit from intermediate reviews carried out jointly by the implementing agencies and
IDA, as well as from the completion of several assessments: (i) a Country Procurement Assessment
Review and a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (to be carried out by IDA); (ii) a Fiscal
Transparency Assessment (proposed to be carried out by the Government with IMF assistance); and (iii) a
baseline Public Expenditure Review (to be carried out by the Government under the proposed project).
Executing Agencies: (i) Ministry of Finance (MOF), for the Public Financial Management component;
and (ii) Cellule Economique (CE), for the other four project components. The Ministry of Economic
Promotion, Development and Cooperation (MEPDC), which oversees the CE, would implement the
Poverty Database and Strategy component (component 2, cf. Annex 2). CESRAP (Cellule technique
charg&e de la mise en oeuvre de la reforme de V'administration publique), an advisory group for civil
service reform overseen by the Ministry of Civil Service, will be associated in the implementation of the
Human Resources Development Component (component 3, cf. Annex 2).



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project     Page 9
Oversight and Coordination: (i) oversight by the Minister of Economic Promotion, Development and
Cooperation (who also presides the HCI); (ii) operational coordination by a Coordinating Committee in
which the two executing agencies and MEPDC would be represented. The CE would assume the
Secretariat of the Committee.
Project Implementation:  MOF would implement the public financial management component,
including accounting and procurement activities. MEPDC would implement the poverty database and
strategy component, albeit delegating to CE accounting and procurement activities. MEPDC has
appointed a coordinator acceptable to IDA for this project component. CE (through SENAREC, the
National Secretariat for Capacity Building, and the unit monitoring the adjustment program), would
implement the oversight and control, the human resources development, and the economic reform
monitoring components.  With the help of CESRAP, CE would coordinate with the respective
beneficiaries the implementation of specific human resources development activities in MOF, MEPDC
and the strategic units of the ministries of Health, Education, Public Works, Agriculture and Livestock.
CE has appointed a project coordinator, a financial officer and a procurement specialist, acceptable to
IDA.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements: There will be two special accounts for
this project, managed by the CE and MOF, respectively. Both accounts will be managed on an imprest
account basis, using acceptable accounting records suitable for managing imprest accounts. CE will
manage accounting, procurement, reporting and auditing for the project components for which it has
direct responsibility (components 3, 4 and 5 - cf. Annex 2), as well as for the component implemented by
MEPDC (component 2 -cf. Annex 2). In addition, CE will consolidate monthly project accounts, on the
basis of statements of accounts to be submitted by MOF. MOF will manage accounting, procurement,
reporting and auditing for the public financial management component (component 1 - cf. Annex 2).
Procurement would follow Bank guidelines (see Annex 6). The MOF will also manage a project account
for counterpart funds, to be opened and provisioned before the project becomes effective.
The project accounting system maintained by CE under Cr. No.2818 has been assessed by IDA and found
to be compliant with the Bank procedures as stated in OPIBP 10.02. The project accounting system for
the proposed project is compliant with OP/BP 10.02. The accounting staff of CE is adequately qualified
and trained for keeping project accounting records, as documented by the latest audit reports of CE, which
indicate that the recommendations of external auditors have been implemented and have resulted in an
audit opinion free of significant qualifications. The accounting software currently installed at CE is
adequate for the purposes of project accounting and appears capable of keeping the books for several
project accounts simultaneously. CE will prepare by end-2000 an action plan acceptable to IDA to ensure
timely production of Project Monitoring Reports (PMR). IDA will communicate to the Government the
format of PMR. CE will submit to IDA quarterly PMR starting in the second phase of the project, no later
than 18 months from credit effectiveness.
MOF will utilize the same accounting system used by CE and will submit monthly to CE statements of
account in the appropriate format, with a view to consolidating project accounts. The MOF has appointed
a project coordinator, an accountant and a procurement specialist acceptable to IDA.
CE and MOF will manage the respective Special Accounts, including reconciliation with the bank
statements, to ensure satisfactory accounting for Special Account funds. CE and MOF will compute
monthly a reconciliation of uncommitted funds (in SDR) available for each project component, and will
prepare monthly for replenishment of the two Special Accounts. IDA will replenish each Special Account
directly. The project account for counterpart funds will be replenished by the Government on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by CE and MOF, on a quarterly basis, or as soon as its
balance falls below CFAF45 million.
MOF (for the public financial management component) and CE (for the other project components) will
prepare annual accounts for extemal audit, not later than four months after the end of the borrower's fiscal



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project         Page 10
year. Signed audit reports will be submitted annually to IDA no later than six months after the end of the
borrower's fiscal year. The audit reports will cover project accounts, the respective special account, and
the SOEs. The present auditing arrangements for Cr. No.2818 are satisfactory, and would be extended to
the proposed project. The present auditors of Cr. No.2818 have been found to be acceptable and would be
allowed to continue for the first year of project implementation, in order to facilitate the transition of CE
to keeping the books of the proposed project in addition to those of Cr. No.2818. Subsequently, a new
bidding process will be carried out to appoint project auditors. The two implementation agencies should
select and retain jointly the same auditor. Similar arrangements would be retained for auditing the project
account.
CE has already taken steps to define tasks and the project administrative, accounting, financial and
procurement arrangements, modify the project implementation manual and accounting plan, including
operational guidelines defining the role of each executing agency and reporting requirements, appoint
independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit the project accounts and the Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) in accordance with internationally acceptable auditing. standards and in such detail as IDA may
request, and, in agreement with MEPDC, appoint a coordinator of the poverty database and poverty
component, acceptable to IDA. CE would take the following additional actions to upgrade its project
management capability:
i. before effectiveness, it would: (a) finalize and adopt the Project Implementation Manual for
administrative, financial and accounting procedures; and (b) establish a financial management
system for the project;
ii. within 18 months after credit effectiveness, it would undertake a time-bound action plan to further
strengthen financial management, in order to be able to produce Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs)
satisfactory to the Association; and
iii. during project implementation, it would undertake annual. audits and submit them to IDA within six
months from the end of the respective fiscal year.
MOF would utilize the project administrative, accounting, financial and procurement arrangements
(including accounting software), the project implementation manual, and the accounting plan developed
by CE. MOF has appointed qualified project staff acceptable to. IDA, and has retained jointly with CE the
same independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit the project accounts, the Special Account, and the
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) in accordance with internationally acceptable auditing standards and
in such detail as IDA may request. MOF would take the following additional actions to establish project
management capability:
i. before effectiveness it would: (a) make available the necessary office space and equipment to the
unit which will execute the public financial management component; (b) adopt the project
implementation manual developed by the CE; and (c) establish a financial management system for
the project;
ii. within 18 months after credit effectiveness will undertake a time-bound action plan to further
strengthen financial management in order to be able to produce Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs)
satisfactory to the Association;
iii. during project implementation, undertake annual audits and submit them to IDA within six months
from the end of the respective fiscal year.
Before effectiveness, the Borrower will open a project account for counterpart funds with an initial
provisioning of CFAF60 million, to be replenished quarterly or as soon as CFAF45 million were
disbursed.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: (i) the Coordinating Committee would monitor project
execution and recommend adjustments if need be. The Committee would meet at least twice a year, and
report to the Minister of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation (President of HCI), and to



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project     Page II
IDA; (ii) the Committee would review semi-annual progress reports to be prepared by each executing
agency that would be communicated at the same time to IDA; (iii) the Committee would meet with IDA
at least twice a year to review project implementation; (iv) a mid-term review would be carried out before
the end of the first phase of the project, on the basis of implementation reports to be prepared by each
executing agency; and (v) the CE and MOF would prepare Project Implementation Completion Reports
(ICR) for the components for which the have management responsibility, to be submitted to IDA within
six months from the closing date of the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
IDA had initially considered financing only the proposed petroleum development and pipeline project.
Although recognizing the economic risks associated with the absorption of oil revenue, the Bank initially
believed that appropriate policy advice would suffice to mitigate them. After extensive consultations with
the Chadian civil society, and the review of international experience with the management of windfall oil
and mineral revenue, IDA and the Government agreed that a strategy for managing oil revenues, and
capacity building to implement this strategy, would be essential in mitigating the risks associated with the
pipeline project.
The Government requested IDA support for capacity building in order to: (i) benefit from Bank's
knowledge of international best practice in managing windfall oil or mineral revenues; (ii) ensure the
implementation of its commitments under the IBRD-financed Doba project, with regard to management
of oil revenue; and (iii) benefit from the Bank's policy advice through the preparation and supervision of
a project. Strategic choices in designing the project are discussed in section B-3 above.



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Sector issue .ect                                        Latest s rvision (Form 590)
I                                 (Bank-financed proj~~~~03ects:only)
Bank-                                                 Implementation  Development
financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Policy-Based   First Structural Adjustment Credit (completed)  S               S
Lending       Second Structural Adjustment Credit (completed)   S              S
Third Structural Adjustment Credit (FY99)       N/A            N/A
Energy        Sedigui Development Project Engineering Credit    S              S
Household Energy                                N/A            N/A
Petroleum Development & Pipeline (FY00)=        N/A            N/A
Electricity (FY0O0)                             N/A            N/A
Capacity      TA for Economic and Financial Management          S              S
Building      (completed)
Capacity Building for Economic Management        S              S
Management of the Petroleum Economy (FY00)      N/A            N/A
Health Sector:  Health and Safe Motherhood                      S              S
Population and ASDS                    =                        S
Health Sector Support Credit (FY00)             N/A            N/A
Education:    Basic Education                                   S             U
Infrastructure:  Transport Sector II                            S              S
Public Works and Capacity Building (ATETIP)      U              U
Transport III (FY01)                            N/A            N/A
Agriculture    Agricultural Services                            S              S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Other development agencies
France                      Policy-based financial support
Education, Rural Development, Airport rehabilitation, Electricity
sector, Support to the judiciary, police, decentralization
African Development Bank    Policy-based financial support
Rural development, Health, E,ducation, Electricity, Environment,
Road transport
European Union              Policy-based financial support
Road transport, Rural development, Health, Education
Germany                     Road transport
AIDS prevention, Rural development, Livestock sector
Taiwan                      Road transport, Hospital care
Budget support
UN agencies                 Capacity building for economic management
_Health, Rural development



Project Appraisal Document. Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Capacity building and technical assistance have proved essential to the implementation of the IDA-
financed projects and policy-based lending in Chad. The design of the proposed project has factored in
lessons provided by the Economic and Financial Management Project (Cr. No.1872, closed on June
30,1996), and the Capacity Building for Economic Management Project (Cr. No.2818, scheduled to close
on June 30, 2000). The implementation of these projects has highlighted several conditions for improving
project performance:
i. Clear project objectives, congruent with the Government's objectives for public sector management.
ii. Government commitment to the project, client participation in all stages of the project, and
management continuity;
iii. Availability of qualified counterparts and training candidates, and commitment of trained staff to
stay at their post for a minimum period thereafter.
iv. Priority to local capacities and on-the-job training, rather than to substitution technical assistance
and training abroad.
v. Adequate accounting and procurement capacities in place before the credit becomes effective.
vi. Continuity and depth of supervision, and synergy with Bank economic and sector work.
vii. Adequate budgeting for maintenance and operation to ensure sustainability.
viii. Donor coordination to avoid overtaxing Chad's limited institutional capacity.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is fully committed to implementing the Doba project to which the proposed capacity-
building project is intimately linked. The Authorities have demonstrated their commitment to sound oil
revenue management by developing and adopting the Letter of Policy, and the Law on Petroleum
Revenue Management (Annex 11). The proposed project has been prepared jointly with the Government,
and its design, financing plan, and implementation arrangements have been reviewed and approved by the
HCI. The executing agencies were closely associated in the technical preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project is central to delivering the promise of petroleum development to improve Chad's
prospects for poverty reduction. The success of the Doba project will be measured by poverty reduction
rather than by barrels of oil produced or millions of dollars received by Chad from oil exports. A Bank-
financed operation would help Chad:
i. share best practice in institutional development and capacity-building operations;
ii. share Bank's knowledge of international best practice with improving public financial management,
managing windfall revenues, and mitigating their risks;
iii. enjoy synergy with the Bank's economic work program, including public sector reform, institutional
and poverty assessments, and sector work in transport, education, health, and rural development;
iv. benefit from synergy with the African initiative for capacity building;
v. maintain congruence with the economic reform program (supported by policy-based lending), sector
strategies and programs (supported by new generation of IDA-financed sector-wide operations), and
the pipeline project (conditionalities for oil revenue management);
vi. benefit from IMF support in the area of budget management; and
vii. help consolidate ongoing capacity building activities, supported by CR. No.2818-CD.



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project         Page 14
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic and Financial:
Capacity-building operations of this kind do not lend themselves to a meaningful quantitative analysis of
the economic and financial return. It can be safely assumed, however, that successful implementation of
this project would maximize the return on the much larger Dolba project and mitigate the risks of windfall
oil revenue. It can also be assumed that successful implementation of the project would improve Chad's
overall capacity to manage public resources (several times the size of Doba-generated revenue), including
resources provided by external assistance.
The fiscal impact of the proposed project is expected to be highly positive. The project would support
fiscal mobilization and help increase the efficiency of public expenditure. By enhancing Chad's capacity
to absorb oil revenue efficiently, the project would contribute to improving human resources and physical
infrastructure, thus fostering private investment and increasing fiscal revenues.
2. Technical:
N/A
3. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The executing agencies have a proven track record of implementation of capacity-
building activities, including activities financed by IDA. They have appointed competent coordinators,
procurement specialists, and accountants acceptable to IDA. Their implementation capacity, however,
needs strengthening. Additional training will be made available to coordinators, procurement specialists
and accountants.
b. Project management: CE would assume overall financial management and ensure compliance with
Bank procurement guidelines. A Coordinating Committee would oversee execution, and report to the
Minister of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation (President of HCl), who maintains final
responsibility for the outcome of the project.
4. Social:
The proposed project would have a large, albeit indirect, positive social impact. The project would
support the articulation and implementation of a national strategy for poverty reduction. Its main
objective is to support the efficient transformation of oil revenue into increased expenditure for education,
health, rural development, and basic infrastructure - with high impact on poverty reduction. By
establishing baseline poverty indicators and a system for monitoring and evaluating development and
poverty indicators, the project would help ensure that public expenditure is adequately targeted for
maximum impact on poverty reduction. By reinforcing institutions responsible for oversight and control
of oil revenues, supporting participatory formulation of a strategy for poverty reduction, and emphasizing
information, education and communication activities, the project would contribute to enhance governance
and participatory processes.
5. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category   []A      []B   [X] C
As a free-standing capacity-building project, the operation does not present environmental risks.
Moreover, the proposed allocation of oil revenues contemplates increased public spending for
environmental protection.
6. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: In a narTow sense, primary beneficiaries are the
economic administrations that would benefit directly from the support of the project. In a broader sense,
Chad's entire population would stand to benefit from the acceleration of poverty reduction efforts.



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 15
b. Other key stakeholders: Other stakeholders include: the private sector (which would benefit from
increased business opportunities and improvements in human resources and physical infrastructure);
external donors (who would benefit from improved implementation and sustainability of their assistance
programs); NGOs (which would be called upon to implement activities under the public expenditure
programs); local communities (where oil revenue would be spent on development activities); and the civil
society at large (through the IEC program). The following summarizes the degree of consultation under
the project.
--  -  -          IdeSifie   a tion eparaion  Ipleniention      )persation
Beneficiaries/community groups         IS                   IS                 IS
Intermediary NGOs                    IS/CON               IS/CON              IS/CON
Academic institutions                  IS                   IS                  IS
Local Governments                                           IS                  IS
Other donors                       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL         IS/CON/COL
Note: IS=lnformation Sharing; CON=Consultation; COL=Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project is fostered by:
i. the government's strong commitment for, and ownership of, capacity building;
ii. a design which promotes use of national staff rather than technical assistance; and
iii. strong support for capacity building from the Bank, the IMF, and bilateral and multilateral donors.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Merging the PIP with the Budget not done  M             Specific project activity would
support preparation
Donors unwilling to replace project approach   M        Donor coordination, including
with sector expenditure programs                        sector round tables
Reform of concerned administrations not  M              Building political and staff support
carried out                                             through IEC campaign
Adjustmnent program discontinued         N              Policy dialogue
From Components to Outputs
Contractual staff not retained by Government   N        Project conditionality
Institutional reform in MOF and MEPDC not   N           Project conditionality
carried out
Temporary disparity of treatment within the    M        Information campaign, dialogue on
civil service                                           comprehensive civil service reform
Auditor General's mandate not reviewed   N              Policy dialogue and exposure to
international best practice
CCSRP not appointed                      N              Supervision of pipeline project
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The implementation of new selection and remuneration policies in a limited segment of the civil service
may raise questions about disparity of standards, even if temporary. Comprehensive civil service reform
would take much longer than the 4-5 years that Chad has before oil production begins, and exceed
available financing and management capacities. At the same timne, however, postponing human resources
strengthening in the target administrations would make difficult sustainable capacity building. Experience
in Chad and elsewhere proves that competent and motivated staff is central to the success of institutional
development and capacity-building operations.
The design of the project is relatively complex, despite a deliberate attempt to contain its scope. As
mentioned before, the design is driven by the necessity of preserving the integrity of the strategy for the
management of the petroleum economy, and implementing the law on petroleum revenue management.
To mitigate this risk, the following steps have been taken-first, with a view to streamlining this operation,
and in agreement with the Government, this project is proposed as a separate operation, rather than as a
component of the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-]Building Project, as initially envisaged;
second, the strategic choices described in section A-3 would limit project activities to the most urgent
areas, and to those where the Bank enjoys a comparative advantage; and third, a mid-term review would
redefine second phase activities and adjust the financing and implementation plans as need be.
The institutional development and capacity building timetable is ambitious. The project timetable is
determined by the schedule of petroleum resources development. To avoid the failure associated with
development of oil or mineral resources in other Sub-Saharan African countries, Chad must put in place
before 2004 the essential building blocks of its strategy for the management of the petroleum economy.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Presentation Conditions:
None.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
i. Adoption of a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA, comprising administrative,
accounting, financial, and procurement arrangements.
ii. Establishment of a financial management system for the project, acceptable to IDA.
iii. Opening of a Project Account for counterpart funding and its initial provisioning for an amount of
CFAF60 million.
iv. Submission to the Association of the procurement plan for the first 18 months of the Project in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
3. Other : (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
A covenant requiring Government implementation of the Petroleum Revenue Management Program.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[N/A] 1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X ] 2. The procurement documents for first phase activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Project Appraisal Document Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project          Page 17
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[N/A] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Team Leader: Eugen Scanteie
[signature]    t/
Sector Ma ager:Luca Barbon
[signaturel
Country Director:   ge Michailof






Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project                  Page 19
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Sector-related CAS Goal:           Sector Indicators:             Sector I Country         (from Goal to Bank
Capacity building for improved     O   Consolidated budget based on  Reports:              Mission)
governance                             expenditure programs in    LI  Public expenditure   La  Pipeline project on
priority poverty reduction     reviews                  track
sectors                    El  Beneficiary
O   Poverty monitoring system      assessments
O   Budget control and oversight
mechanisms
O   Reform of central economic
administrations
Project Development Objective:    Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Build sustainable capacity to      O   Revamped budget cycle      O   Bank supervision     o   Political will
implement strategy of oil revenue  O   Explicit link between budget   reports
management                             and poverty objectives
O   Competent and motivated key
economic administrations
O   Operational control and
oversight institutions
Output from each component:       Output/Performance Indicators:  Project Reports:         (from Outputs to
O   Strengthened public financial  U   Modernization and          O   Review of draft      Objective)
management                        harmonization of budget and     budget 2003          U   Merging of PIP with
a   Poverty monitoring and strategy    accounting nomenclatures,  0   Institutional            budget
O   Reform of central economic         updating of economic and       assessment of        o   Reform of key
administrations                   functional classification of    economic                 economic
O   Capacity for external control and  expenditures, extension of     administrations           administrations and
oversight                         classification to investment    O   Budget settlement    recruitment of
O   Access of civil society to         operations (12/31/2000)        law 2002                 competent and
information                   Cl Execution of the consolidated   O   Bank supervision      motivated staff
U   Monitoring reform program          budget on the basis of new     reports              U   Donors willing and
nomenclature and of a      O   Reports of Cellule       able to replace
macroeconomic and public       Economique on            project approach with
finance framework (as of       reform program           expenditure programs
fiscal year 2002)                                       in priority sectors
O   Adoption of Action Plan                             L   Continuing
concerming transition from                              adjustment program
PIP to Sector Expenditure
Programs (June 30,2001)
U   Implementation of a
streamlined and simplified
budget expenditure system,
and of improved procedures
for the internal control of
expenditures (as of FY 2001)
U   Submission to the Auditor
General of the final budget
accounts for the preceding
fiscal year before March 31
of each year (as of 3/31/2001)
U   Submission to-Parliament of
budget Settlement Law before
December 31 of each year for
the preceding fiscal year (as
of 12/31/2001)



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project                 Page 20
_ _  Implementation of improved
debt management system
(12/31/2000)
O   Annual review of public
expenditures (as of FY 2000)
O   Validation of two household
surveys reports (12/31/2001
and 12/31/2004)
O   Preparation of two reports on
community socioeconomic
surveys (12/31/2001 and
12/31/2004)
O   Adoption of participatory
interim national strategy for
poverty reduction (10/31/00)
O   Adoption of participatory
national strategy for poverty
reduction (10/31/2002)
O   Final proposals on reform of
civil service statutes,
including implementation
decrees (06/30/2000)
O   Harmonization of payroll and
civil service census (6/30/00)
O   Implementation of public
administration reform giving
priority to the Ministries of
Finance and Economic
Promotion, and to pilot
administrations in the Health,
Education, Agriculture,
Livestock, and Public Works
departments (10/31/2003)
O   Operational implementation
of General Auditor's Office
(03/31/2001)
LI  Operational implementation
of the Committee for Control
and Oversight of Petroleum
Resources (06/30/2004)
LI  Implementation of IEC
program on the outcomes of
structural adjustment program
and the implementation of the
strategy for the management
of the petroleum economy (as
of FY2000)
L   Submission to HCI of
quarterly reports on structural
reform program, and monthly
summary of macroeconomic
indicators (as of 03/31/2000)
O   Transmittal to IDA of
quarterly reports on the
financial implementation of
the project, including the
consolidation of project
accounts (as of 03/31/2000)



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project                   Page 21
Project Components/Sub-            Inputs: (budget for each        Project Reports:         (from Components to
components:                        component -US$ million)                                  Outputs)
IDA      Total            L   Budget cycle
I Public financial management      1.   7.7       8.2                  assessment           O   Retention of contract
1.1 Budgetconsolidation (new       I 1   1.2      1.3              LI  Bank supervision          staff for a minimum
nomenclature, macroeconomic and                                        reports                   period
expenditure framework, switch from                                 OI  Poverty assessment    LI  Institutional reform
projects to progratns, internal control)                           OI  Periodic                 (integration of
1.2. Streamlining of budget                                            consultations with        Control Department
expenditure management             1.2   0 6      0 6                  NGO community            in Budget, integration
1.3 Treasury management and public                                                               of Debt in Treasury,
accounting system (accounting                                                                    review of the
nomenclature, debt management, cash   1.3  1.3    1.4                                            mandate of MEPDC
flow management)                                                                                 following
1 4. Internal control and audit    1.4  1.0       1 0                                            replacement of PIP
1.5. Revenue mobilization          1 5   1 0      1 0                                            by sector progi ams)
1 6. Financial management          1.6  21        2.2                                       Li  Review of role of
informnation system (FMIS)                                                                       Auditor General's
1 7 Project unit                   1 7   0.6      0 6                                            Office
L   Appointment of
2. Poverty database & strategy     2.   2.8        3.0                                           CCSRP
2.1 Statistical database           2.1  2.4        2 6
2.2 Poverty profile & strategy     2.2  0.3        0.4
2.3 Coordination                   2.3  0.1        0.1
3. Human resource development      3.   1.2        1.3
3.1 Institutional Assessment       3 1   0.2       0.2
3 2 Updated General Statutes       3 2   0 2       0.3
3 3 Harmonization of payroll and civil  3 3   0.3  0.3
service census
3.4 Reform pilot administrations   3.4  0.4        0.4
3.5 Support to CESRAP              3 5   0.1       0 1
4. Oversight and control           4.   1.2        1.4
4 1 Oversight & Control Committee    4 1  0 3      0 3
(CCSRP)
4 2 Auditor General's Office       4.2  0.5        0.5
4.3 IEC for civil society          4 3   0 4       0 5
5. Monitoring reform program       5.   3.1        3.7
5.1 General coordination           5.1   1.3       1.5
5 2 Adjustment monitoring          5 2   08        0.9
5 3 SENAREC (capacity building)    5.3   0 4       0.6
5.4 Projectunit                    5.4  0.6        07
Contingencies (including PPF             1.4       1.5
refinancing)
TOTAL                                  17.5      19.4
Totals may not add because of rounding.






Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project       Page 23
ANNEX 2: Project Description
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
COMPONENTS AND ACTIVITIES              [PHASE I PHASE II  TOTAL         %
US$ 1000 equivalent
IDA FINANCING                                         8625      8875    17500    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                           4111      3559     7670      43.8
Budget consolidation                                  710       533     1243       71
Simplification of expenditure system                  333       261      594       3 4
Treasury management and public accounting             714       546     1260       72
Internal control and audit                            648       312      960       5.5
Revenue mobilization                                  480       482      962       5.5
Financial management information system              1000      1086     2086      11.9
Project unit                                          226       339      565       3.2
POVERTY DATABASE AND STRATEGY                         1659      1181     2840      162
Statistical database                                 1539       860     2399      137
Poverty profile and strategy                           80       261      341        1.9
Coordination                                           40        60      100       0.6
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                            696       521     1217       7.0
Institutional assessment                              214         0      214       1.2
Civil service statutes updating                       247         0      247        1.4
Consolidated payroll and civil service census         172        80      252        1.4
Reform of pilot administrations                         0       310      310       1.8
IEC campaign for the civil service                      0        92       92       0.5
CESRAP operation                                       63        39      102       0.6
OVERSIGHT AND CONTROL                                  350       900     1250       7.1
Oversight and Control Committee (CCSRP)                 0       300      300        1 7
Auditor General's Office                              200       300      500        2 9
IEC campaign for the civil society                    150       300      450       2.6
MONITORING ECONOMIC REFORM                            1242      1862     3104       177
General Coordination                                  510       765     1275       7.3
Structural Adjustment Monitoring Unit                 324       487      811       4 6
SENAREC (Capacity Building Secretariat)               176       263      439       2.5
Project Unit                                          232       347      579       3.3
CONTINGENCIES INCLUDING PPF REFINANCING                567       851      1419       8.1
GOVERNMENT FINANCING                                   958       986      1944
TOTAL PROJECT COST BEFORE TAX                         9584      9861    19444



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 24
Description and Costing By Component:
(IDA financing only, excluding contingencies)
Project Component I - US$7.7 million - Public Financial Management
This project component was prepared on the basis of the review of Chad's fiscal administration and
expenditure system, carried out by the IMF in May/June 1998. The following specific project activities
include support during the entire project period of five years:
1) Preparation and presentation of a consolidated budget.
At present, the budget is divided between a current budget and an investment budget. The latter, in turn,
distinguishes between domestically financed expenditure, and externally financed expenditure. The
allocation of expenditures between the current and capital budgets is often arbitrary, and provides neither
a meaningful picture of capital formnation and recurrent spending, nor a basis for determining the
sustainability of investment (i.e., operating expenditure and replacement). The two budgets are presented
according to different nomenclatures. The current budget uses an economic and functional classification,
while the investment budget is presented by projects. This makes impossible a consistent economic and
functional analysis of the budget. There is no consolidated budget table to balance budget aggregates.
Between a wage bill which represents 50 percent of the current expenditure (not including public debt
service and transfers) and an investment budget essentially determined by the availability of external
financing, budget preparation is de facto reduced to extending past allocations, marginally adjusted. There
is, therefore, little ownership outside the Budget Department.
The project would help implement the following actions:
o Modernization of budget nomenclature and harmonization with the accounting nomenclature. The
economic and functional classification would be updated according to international norms and
extended to investment operations.
Schedule:           2000 (preparation of 2002 budget)
Duration:            3 months initial implementation, continuing during second phase
Technical assistance:  3 months of international expert during each phase
Training:            150 staff of Finance, 150 staff of other departments
Estimated budget:    $216,000
cl  Strengthening the capacity for macroeconomic analysis and forecasting, and for tracking the
effectiveness of public expenditure. The Study and Forecasting unit to be supported by the project
would prepare an annual macroeconomic framework, as, well as a three-year public expenditure
framework, updated annually, using financial information generated by Finance, as well as statistics
produced by BEAC, MEPDC, and sector departments. It.s main mandate would be to express the
Government's economic and fiscal policies in budgetary terms. Production of a baseline Public
Expenditure Review would be an early output. Another PER would be carried out during the second
phase. These reports would put special emphasis on the eflfectiveness of public expenditure.
Schedule:           2000-2001
Duration:            12 months initial implementation, continuing during second phase
Technical assistance:  6 months of international expert during each phase
Contract staff:     4 staff for 3 years
Training:            15 staff of Finance
Estimated budget:    $356,000
o Preparation of the budget on the basis of the new nomenclature, the macroeconomic framework, and
the public expenditure framework. Would include the preparation of analytical tables accompanying
the finance law, in particular a general budget equilibrium table aggregating all revenues and



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 25
expenditures, and detailing financing sources. Would take place within an improved schedule for
budget preparation aimed at strengthening consultation and validation procedures.
Schedule:           as of fiscal year 2002
Duration:           12 months initial implementation, continuing during second phase
Technical assistance:  6 months international expert first phase, 3 months second phase
Contract staff:     2 staff for 3 years
Training:           60 staff of Finance, 150 staff of other departments
Estimated budget:    $395,000
o Implementation of new procedures of consolidated budget.
Schedule:           starting in 2002
Duration:           3 years
Technical assistance:  3 months of international expert for each phase
Training:           200 staff of Finance
Estimated budget:    $175,000
o Transition from the project-based public investment program to sector expenditure programming. The
detailed review of the PIP would help determine the scope for transferring specific projects to sector
programs, the scope of recurrent costs for projects, which will continue to be managed as such, and
specific modalities for the integration of programs and projects into the consolidated budget.
Schedule:           2000-2001
Duration:           18 months
Technical assistance:  3 months of international expert
Training:           20 staff of Finance and 80 staff of other departments
Estimated budget:    $100,000
2) Management of budget expenditure.
Public expenditure management is hampered by budget execution shortcomings. The budget expenditure
procedures are cumbersome, with highly redundant controls. In an attempt to circumvent the complicated
regular expenditure procedures, many managers seek exemptions and exceptional procedures, with a
resulting loss in transparency and accountability.
The management of the payroll raises two major issues. The first is the urgent upgrade of the computer
system to a Y2K compliant system. The Government has taken steps to replace by end-1999 the existing
equipment and software with Y2K-compliant equipment and software. The second issue is harmonizing
the payroll with the civil service census (addressed under the civil service reform component).
The project would help implement the following actions:
o  Rationalization and simplification of the expenditure circuit (procedures, structure, organization,
systems). An indicative approach was proposed by the IMF. It would drastically reduce the number of
stages and render credit managers (ministers and heads of spending departments) accountable for
committing budget allocations. These commitments would be validated by an integrated control unit,
which would also manage the computerized accounting system tracking commitments and
disbursements. All exceptional procedures, and, in particular, expenditures without prior commitment
authorization would be discontinued. These changes would be accompanied by the strengthening of
public accounting in the Treasury, with a view to developing a common database and avoiding
duplication of data recording and of controls. The integrated control function (Direction du Controle
Financier) should be consolidated with the Budget, and the ordonnateurs d'legues should be
gradually replaced by extending commitment authority to the spending departments. The commission
for reception of goods and services, with its cumbersome and expensive procedures, should also be
dismantled.
Schedule:           2000



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Projec:t  Page 26
Duration:            12 months initial implementation, continuing during second phase
Technical assistance:  6 months of international expert during each phase
Contract staff:      2 staff for 3 years
Training:            150 staff of Finance and 150 staff of other departments
Estimated budget:    $526,000 (plus $134,000 earmarked for operating expenditure)
3) Management of the Treasury and public accounting.
Public accounting is the responsibility of the Treasury and of public accountants. The current system
needs to be upgraded to harmonize accounting and budget nomenclatures, simplify certain accounting
procedures, and replace the manual treatment of treasury operalLions with computerized treatment. Despite
efforts to close Treasury accounts in commercial banks, there is still no consolidated cash-flow
management. Additional efforts must be made to reconcile Treasury accounts with the accounts of
financial institutions. Public debt management must also be upgraded and consolidated with Treasury
operations.
The project would help implement the following actions:
o Modernization of public accounting and harmonization with budget nomenclature.
Schedule:            fiscal year 2000-2001
Duration:            2 years initial implementation, continuing during second phase
Technical assistance:  6 months of international expert during each phase
Contract staff:      5 staff for 3 years
Training:            150 staff of Finance and 150 staff other departments
Estimated budget:    $553,000
o  Public debt management upgrading. One possibility may be to introduce the latest UNCTAD
SYGADE package, consisting of: (i) installation of SYGADE and associated software; (ii) training
(data inputting, control reporting); (iii) restoration of historical database; (iv) reconciliation with
lenders' databases; (v) input of data; and (vi) review of the database.
Schedule:            2000
Duration:            9 months
Technical assistance:  included in the package
Contract staff:      2 staff for 3 years
Training:            included in the package
Estimated budget:    $187,000
o  Treasury management, analysis and forecasting. Implementation of a Treasury Plan and expenditure
regulation.
Schedule:            2000-2001
Duration:           .12 months initial implementation, continuing during second phase
Technical assistance:  6 months of international expert and 6 months of national expert during
each phase
Contract staff:      5 staff for 3 years
Training:            30 staff of Finance
Estimated budget:    $520,000
4) Internal control and audit.
In tandem with the integration of internal control with the budget expenditure management system, the
project would support the implementation of a credible internal control and audit system. The General
Finance Inspection (IGF), responsible for assessing the legality of public financial management, would be
strengthened, and its mandate would be extended to cover al[l departments which are managing public
funds. The project would help build up the capacity of IGF, and support its operation.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 27
O Capacity-building of IGF:
Schedule:           starting in 2000
Duration:            5 years
Technical assistance:  6 months international expert first phase, 2 months second phase
Contract staff:      10 staff for 3 years
Training:            60 staff of Finance and 90 staff of other departments
Estimated budget:    $893,000
5) Revenue mobilization.
Strengthening fiscal revenue mobilization and broadening the fiscal base is an urgent and important task.
Although Chad made considerable efforts in this area under the 1995-99 program, fiscal revenues were
barely 7.7 percent of GDP in 1998, well below the Sub-Saharan Africa average. The preparation of an
action plan in this area is underway with technical assistance provided by the IMF. Pending completion of
this action plan, the proposed project would earmark a budget of $962,000 as well as additional support to
modernize systems and equipment, to be financed under the financial management information system
component (see below). This allocation would be revisited during the mid-term review.
6) Financial Management Information System.
This project component would support the following activities: (i) development of software associated
with the introduction of new procedures and systems through the project; (ii) acquisition of equipment,
service, and operating costs; (iii) training; (iv) installation and operation of networks; and (v) production
of public expenditure reviews and financial reports.
The project would help implement the following actions:
u Systems development. Formulation of technical specifications, development of software, and training
for specific applications
Schedule:            starting in 2000
Duration:            4 years
Estimated budget:    $500,000
L Implementation of systems, equipment, building of local networks within departments, and within the
Ministry of Finance
Schedule:            starting in 2000
Duration:            4 years
Estimated budget:    $900,000
o Upgrading of existing Customs School to create a Finance School (Ecole des regiesfinancieres), and
implementation of training programs incorporated in specific project activities, as well as of a general
computer literacy training program
Schedule:            2000 - 2004
Duration:            5 years
Estimated budget:    $400,000
o Integrated financial reporting
Schedule:            starting in 2001
Duration:            3 years
Estimated budget:    $286,000
7) Project management unit
$565,000 over a five-year period



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 28
Project Component 2 - US$2.8 million - Poverty Database and Strategy
1) Poverty and development database.
Poverty reduction is at the core of Chad's strategy for oil revenue management. The allocation of oil
revenue (and indeed of public resources in general) and the evaEluation of the impact of public expenditure
hinge on Chad's ability to address the dimensions of poverty within a general development context. A
comprehensive database of poverty and development indicators is a necessity. The project would continue
to expand on recent progress, including the national household survey completed in 1997 (ECOSIT), the
publication of national statistical yearbooks for 1995 and 1997, the new national accounts 1996-98 based
on year 1995, the demographic census of 1993, the publication of price indices for 1983-98, custom
statistics for 1996, etc.
The project would help implement the following activities: (i) two household surveys; (ii) two surveys of
economic and social services at the community level, and cartographic treatment of results; (iii) treatment
of economic, social, and sector statistics from other sources (E3EAC, Finance, sector departments, NGOs,
donors); and (iv) production of a consolidated database on poverty and development indicators.
O Baseline national household survey including a CD-ROM database and report.
Schedule:           2000 -2001
Duration:            2 years
Technical assistance:  10 months of intemational consultant
Contract staff:      5 staff for 1.5 years
Temporary staff:     248 staff for 15 months
Training:           25 permanent staff and 200 temporary staff
Estimated budget:    $1,238,000 (including $549,000 for vehicles to be subsequently used for
other activities)
a Updating of the national household survey, including CD-:ROM database and report.
Schedule:           January 2003 - June 2004
Duration:            18 months
Technical assistance:  10 months of intemational consultant
Contract staff:      5 staff for 1.5 years
Temporary staff:     248 staff for 15 months
Training:            25 permnanent staff and 200 temporary staff
Estimated budget:    $599,000
o Baseline community survey of economic and social services, including CD-ROM database and
report, and cartographic treatment.
Schedule:           November 1999- December 2001
Duration:           26 months
Contract staff:     3 staff for 1.5 years
Temporary staff:    33 staff for 26 months
Training:            10 permanent staff and 20 temporary staff
Subcontracting:     cartographic treatment by CNAR (Centre national de recherche
appliquee)
Estimated budget:    $273,000 (including $167,000 for CNAR input)
o Updating of the community survey of economic and social services (update), including CD-ROM
database and report, and cartographic treatment.
Schedule:           March 2003 - September 2004
Duration:            18 months
Contract staff:      3 staff for 1.5 years



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 29
Temporary staff:    33 staff for 26 months
Training:           10 permanent staff and 20 temporary staff
Subcontracting:     cartography by CNAR (Centre national de recherche appliquee)
Estimated budget:    $253,000 (including $167,000 for CNAR input)
o Treatment of economic, social, and sector statistics from other sources, construction and maintenance
of a database of economic and development indicators.
Schedule:           2000 - 2004
Duration:           5 years
Training:           20 permanent staff
Estimated budget:    $28,000
2) Poverty profile and strategy.
This second group of activities would use the findings of the poverty and development database to
produce a poverty profile, and would support the formulation of a participatory strategy for poverty
reduction. The latter would involve central and local public administration, non-governmental institutions
and organizations, the private sector, professional and trade associations, unions, etc.
o Annual poverty profile reports.
Schedule:           starting in 2002
Technical assistance:  4 months of international consultant
Contract staff:     2 staff for 1 year
Estimated budget:    $73,000
o Baseline participatory poverty reduction strategy.
Schedule:           2003
Duration:           12 months
Technical assistance:  6 months national consultant
Workshops:          100 participants
Estimated budget:    $138,000 (plus $130,000 earmarked for operating expenditure)
3) Coordination of this project component by MEPDC
$100,000 over a five-year period
Project Component 3 - US$1.2 million - Human Resources Development
The sustainability of the capacity-building program hinges on the quality and motivation of the national
staff, their institutional and organizational environment, and the adequacy of the checks and balances
needed for good governance. The prerequisites for successful outcomes include streamlining of the
administrations which will be at the forefront of oil revenue management (i.e., MOF, MEPDC, and
strategic planning and expenditure programming in Health, Education, Social Affairs, Agriculture,
Livestock, and Public Works departments), improving the quality of the human resources in these
administrations, providing adequate incentives and a productive working environment, putting in place
transparent staff rules and regulations, and increasing the accountability of staff to beneficiaries.
Some of these prerequisites would be addressed through other project components. This concerns in
particular training and the working environment, especially management of information systems and
equipment. This component of the project would supplement human resources development efforts by
helping streamline frontline economic administrations, renew their staff, introduce a performance-based
motivation system, and sensitize the staff to good governance and anti-corruption practices. These
activities would take place within the broader context of the civil service reform strategy adopted by the
Govemment in 1998. The project would support the pursuit of this strategy by helping carry out an



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 30
institutional assessment, update the statutes of the civil service, and harmonize the payroll and civil
service census databases.
The administrative reform strategy adopted by the Government aims to improve the competence,
efficiency, loyalty and quality of the civil service. The key ob jectives of this strategy are to: (i) redefine
the role of the State; (ii) promote a new results-oriented manalgement culture, fostering participation and
improved quality of services; (iii) rationalize and improve the organization and procedures of public
administration; (iv) provide reliable information on the civil service; (v) strengthen human resource
management; (vi) modernize the civil service and control costs; and (vii) strengthen the management of
the reform process.
The project would help implement the following actions:
u Institutional assessment.
Schedule:            2000
Duration:            6 months
Technical assistance:  2 months of international expert, 6 months national expert
Training:            20 staff from various departments, national workshop
Estimated budget:    $214,000
n Updating of the Civil Service Statutes and application texts, and information campaign.
Schedule:            2000-2001
Duration:            9 months
Technical assistance:  4 weeks international expert, 4 weeks national expert
Workshops:           120 participants
Estimated budget:    $247,000
o  Harmonization of the payroll and the Civil Service Census, introduction of afichier unique, and
training of users.
Schedule:            2000
Duration:             7 months initial implementation, maintenance during second phase
Technical assistance:  4 weeks international expert, 4 weeks national expert
Workshops:           20 participants
Estimated budget:     $252,000
El Human resource development program in pilot administrations. Key activities include: (i)
organizational chart, definition of departmental functions and job profiles, legislative action on new
organizational structure; (ii) selection of staff on the basis of competence; (iii) introduction of
performance-based remuneration system, including legislative action, and assessment of individual
performance and remuneration; and (iv) an Information-Education-Communication (IEC) campaign
in the civil service to present first phase of reform and discuss preparation of the second phase.
Schedule:            2001-2003
Duration:            2 years
Technical assistance:  4 months international expert, 18 months national experts
Workshops:            180 participants
Estimated budget:    $402,000
o Support to CESRAP, estimated at $102,000 (i.e., 10 percent of the budget for the human resources
development component).



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 31
Project Component 4 - US$1.25 million - Oversight and Control
The project would support the implementation of the oversight and control functions mandated by the
Law on petroleum revenue management, i.e., the Auditor General's Office (AGO), and the Oversight and
Control Committee for the Management of Petroleum Revenue (CCSRP), as well as an Information-
Education-Communication (IEC) campaign aimed at civil society. Support to the Parliament and the
NGO community would be considered under separate operations, possibly IDF grants, or operations
financed by other partners of Chad.
The legislation creating the Auditor General's Office within the Supreme Court mandates only controls of
the legality of public expenditure. Such controls would essentially duplicate the internal control and audit
system of the Ministry of Finance, which would be strengthened by this project. A meaningful AGO role
would Tequire a review of its mandate to extend it to the ex-post control of the opportunity and efficiency
of public spending. As regards CCSRP, its statutes, organization, reporting system, etc. will be clarified
by end-2001.
The project would help implement the following actions:
o Support to CCSRP. Preparation and adoption of statutes, mandate, organizational structure,
procedures, and reporting requirements.
Schedule:           2003 - 2004
Duration:           2 years
Estimated budget:    $300,000 (tentative)
li Support to the Auditor General's Office. Exposure to international practice. Support for the
preparation and adoption of statutes, mandate, organizational structure, procedures, reporting
requirements.
Schedule:           2000 -2004
Duration:           5 years
Estimated budget:    $500,000 (tentative)
o3 Information-Education-Communication (IEC) program aimed at civil society. The objective of the
campaign would be to inform and consult the population and local institutions on the Government's
strategy and programs in the priority sectors, the utilization of public revenues, and the outcomes in
terms of poverty reduction.
Schedule:           2000 - 2004
Duration:           5 years
Estimated budget:    $450,000
Project Component 5 - US$3.1 million - Monitoring Economic Reform
The Government is determined to pursue a macroeconomic management and economic reform program
supported by the Bretton Woods Institutions. A new arrangement for the 1999-2002 period was
negotiated with the IMF in November 1999. This program would underpin the strategy for the
management of petroleum revenues, by fostering systemic transformation of the economy. The program
would help complete the disengagement of the State from commercial activities (especially the cotton
sector and public utilities), continue efforts to review the legal and regulatory framework to foster
liberalization and transparency, pursue administrative reform, strengthen public resource management,
and accelerate poverty reduction efforts.
The proposed project would support the implementat;on of outstanding reforms and programs, including:
(i) pursuit of macroeconomic stabilization and privatization agenda; (ii) preparation and negotiation of
adjustment programs with external partners; (iii) monitoring of, and reporting on, the implementation of
adjustment programs; (iv) conduct of workshops, studies and surveys on good governance; (v)



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 32
coordination of national capacity building policies and programs; and (vi) information of the Parliament
and the civil society on economic reform and capacity building,
The project would extend specific support to the operation of the Structural Adjustment Unit and the
National Secretariat for Capacity Building (SENAREC), both in the Cellule Economique, and would fund
project unit costs (accountancy, procurement, auditing).
The project would finance the following activities:
o General coordination, including IEC activities and general overhead costs
Budget: $1,275,000
o Direct operating costs of the project unit
Budget: $579,000
o Direct operating costs of the structural adjustment unit
Budget: $81 1,000
o Operating costs of SENAREC
Budget: $439,000



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 33
ANNEX 3: Estimated Project Costs
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
Public Financial Management                                  0.5             7.7            8.2
Poverty Database and Strategy                                0.2             2.8            3.0
Human Resources Development                                  0.1             1.2            1.3
Oversight and Control                                        0.1             1.2            1.3
Monitoring of Economic Reform Program                        0.6             3.1            3.7
Total Baseline Cost                                          1.8            16.1           17.9
Physical Contingencies                                  N/A            N/A            N/A
Price Contingencies and PPF Refinancing                   0.1             1.4             1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                          1.9            17.5           19.4
Interest during construction                                           N/A            N/A
Front-end fee                                                          N/A            N/A
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                     1.9            17.5           19.4
Note: totals may not add because of rounding.
Works                                                        0.1             0.3            0.4
Goods                                                        0.2             3.1            3.3
Services                                                     0.9             7.0            7.9
Training                                                     0.5             4.1            4.6
Operating Costs                                              0.1             1.5            1.6
Contingencies & PPF Refinancing                              0.1             1.4            1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                          1.9            17.5           19.4
Interest during construction                                              N/A            N/A
Front-end fee                                                             N/A            N/A
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                     1.9            17.5           19.4
Note: Totals may not add because of rounding.



I



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 35
ANNEX 4: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
Years Ending December 31
oYear     Year 2    Year 3    Year 4            3Year 5
Total Financing Required
Project Costs                 4.4        3.9       3.9        3.9        3.3
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
5 Total ProjectCosts            44        3.9        3.9        3.9       3.3
Interest during construction
Front-end Fee
Total     Financing            4.4        3.9        3.9       3.9        3.3
Financing
iBRD/IDA                    4.0        3.5       3.5        3.5        3.0
Government
Central                  0.4       0.4        0.4        0.4        0.3
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Total Project Financing        4.4        3.9        3.9        3.9       3.3



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Projecl.        Page 36
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Total F17-,ancin;J Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs                 1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Total Project Costs                1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Interest during construction
Front-end Fee
Total Financing                     1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA
Government
Central                     1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Total Project Financing             1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Main assumptions: The Government would hire the contract staff financed by the project after the first
three years of the project, and would take over and finance training activities at a similar pace.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project                 Page 37
ANNEX 5: ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
COUNTRY: Chad                                                        PROJECT ID: TD-PE-62840
PROJECT: Chad Management of Petroleum Economy Project
APPRAISAL DATE: July 2, 1999                                         IBRD AMOUNT (Sm): 0.0
BOARD DATE: January 27,2000                                          IDA AMOUNT ($m): 17.5
MANAGING UNIT: AFTM3                                                 SECTOR: Public Financial Management
LENDING INSTRUMENTS: IDA Credit                                      STATUS: negotiated
ESTIMATED DATE OF RECEIPT OF EA BY BANK (Category A Projects):
EA CATEGORY: C                                                       DATE ASSIGNED: December 29, 1999
DATE DATA SHEET PREPARED/UPDATED: December 29, 1999
MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS:
*   Public financial management.
*  Poverty database and strategy.
*  Human resources development (civil service reform).
*   Oversight and control.
*   Monitoring of economic reforrn.
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES:
None.
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
None.
PROPOSED ACTIONS:
All equipment funded under the project will be state-of-the-art and will follow the latest environmental specifications.
JUSTIFICATION/RATIONALE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY.
Capacity building project with very little physical investment. Environmental benefits are expected from this project
which will help build national capacity in management of public expenditure, including expenditure for environmental
protection.
REPORTiNG SCHEDULE:
N/A.
REMARKS.:
Project being prepared in a participatory way.
Signature                                                Signature
and Date:                                                and Date: |i
Sector Akanager - AFTM3                                 SKt4 Man ger - ENV
Initials        Li    9:,I  4,-7s:Initials                                   ~
and Date:.  ____________                                and Date:    A                      LlfT ~
Team Leader's Initials                                   LS       ta






Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
1.    General. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Chad was carried out in 1993,
showing that procurement procedures in Chad do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. No special
exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), since Chad's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any
contrary provisions in local regulations.
2.    Civil Works and Goods financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999), and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used
for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with
Chad's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. Under NCB,
the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are
made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response time
(four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are
clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers;
(v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated
bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods ; (vii) bid evaluation reports will
clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids,
draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Implementation Manual are submitted to
IDA and found acceptable.
3.    Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in
September 1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will
be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.
4.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations
Development Business before the Credit is declared effective, to advertise for major consulting
assignments and any ICB. Publication of a GPN to be published in the national press or official gazette is
also required for NCB. The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and
procurement methods for the first two years are summarized in Table A below. Consultant selection
methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Tables Al and B
below.
5.    Civil Works contracts financed by IDA are estimated at US$0.3 million. They will cover the
construction and rehabilitation of offices, and finance school. Civil works contracts, costing less than
US$200,000 per contract (or 66% in number), would be procured through NCB in accordance with
national procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil works contracts will be managed by the CE and MOF using
open competition, subject to post-qualification procedure. Contractors classification will be made known
to all bidders. All responsive bids will be evaluated and only the qualification of the lowest evaluated
bidder will be reviewed before contract award.
6.    Contracts for small civil works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 each, up to an aggregate
amount of US$100,000 (or 32% of total civil works contracts representing 75% of the number of
contracts), would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three qualified domestic co.-tractors invited to bid by way of discounts either on the



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 40
total price or on the unit prices. The invitation to bid shall be addressed to registered contractors meeting
qualification criteria for the geographical zone considered. Invitation to bid shall include a bill of
quantity, reference unit prices established by an engineer or an architect, a detailed description of the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form, relevant drawings,
where applicable, and a model for submission of bid. The award would be made to the contractor with
the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates he still has the experience and
resources to execute the contract successfully. These small contracts supervised by CE and MOF will be
for works relating to construction or repairs of offices and finance school.
7.    Goods. Procurement of computer equipment, and procurement of vehicles (of which the majority
concern the logistics of the statistical field surveys) would be preferably carried out under single
responsibility contracts. Procurement through IAPSO may be envisaged for vehicles. Equipment and
software for the management of the payroll system will be procured through single source supply as an
upgrade of the existing system. Other goods (mainly office supplies and equipment) will be procured
through NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US2.4 million. For National Shopping, the
Borrower would seek price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers.
8.    Consultant Services. Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) studies, supervision,
support of project implementation, financial management support, and financial audits; and (ii)
consultancies on technical matters and training - skills gap analysis and skills development. Consultants
financed by IDA, totaling US$3.6 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January
1999). Selection would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and
cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The coordination unit would ensure
widely publicized procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria,
the implementation unit will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish
short-lists.
9.     Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature, up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.2 million, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate
method -- the firm with the lowest price being selected provided its technical proposal received the
minimum qualifying mark. Consultants services for small and simple services (estimated to cost less than
US$30,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000) would be based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ), based on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment.
Services for lectures and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals, would be selected through
comparison of qualifications among Individual Consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or
approached directly. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for training provided the
aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 over the project life.
Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available at competitive
costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for architectural and engineering services. However, if
foreign firmns have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
10.   IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$ 100,000 equivalent
for goods will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover about 50%
of the contract amounts for goods and consultants (see Table B below). Selective post-review of
contracts awarded below the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried
out by Bank staff -- using audits, and other consultants, as necessary.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 41
11.    Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
Borrower. Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, short-
lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated
contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and
individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However,
the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless
of their value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds.
For all consultant contracts subject to prior review (estimated above US$100,000), opening the financial
envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrowers
for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. For training abroad, the program -
containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses, periods of training and selection of
training institutions - will be reviewed by IDA annually.
12.    Frequency of procurement supervision missions.  One supervision mission every twelve
months will include special procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
13.    Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any
material extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase
aggregate cost by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof
and seek IDA's prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
14.    Strengthening Procurement Capacity. National bidding procedures for public procurement in
Chad need to be improved. Staff stills needs training and guidance by consultants and by the Resident
Mission. Procurement would be managed by two executing agencies: (i) Ministry of Finance (MOF) for
the public financial management component; and (ii) the project unit located inCellule Economique (CE)
for the other four components. Both will include a procurement specialist and would use consultants as
necessary to carry out specific tasks. An assessment of the capacity of the project unit in the CE was
carried out during the appraisal mission. The existing staff of the project unit in the CE has been found
acceptable. The Government confirmed to IDA that it intends to extend their assignment on the proposed
project. The project unit will be reinforced by: (i) upgrading the skills of the staff; (ii) training of backup
staff (procurement specialists, accountants) recruited among the staff of CE; and (iii) on an exceptional
basis, hiring of short-term consultants. To ensure quality control, CE will clear procurement
documentation prepared by MOF until the new project unit in MOF can be certified.
15.   Implementation Manual. The project Implementation Manual will be the same for the two
executing agencies. The CE will upgrade the Implementation Manual now used for Cr. No.2818,
including: (i) procedures for calling for bids, selecting consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts;
(ii) internal organization for supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the role of
each executing agency and reporting requirements and (iii) disbursement procedures. A final version of
the Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA will be finalized before credit effectiveness.
16.    The Government has given assurance that it will: (a) use the Implementation Manual; (b) use the
-Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of
consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan' on a regular basis during annual reviews
' /Indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement, revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies, as well as
revised timing of estimated procurement actions.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project       Page 42
with IDA and other donors, to compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during
implementation, with all procurement-related documents; (e) carry out during annual reviews an
assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance as they relate to the program's
procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the
current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments; and (f)
take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time
periods:
Procurement Phases                Ma imuitm number'of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents          4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders              4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                   2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                        2
Payments                                 3



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project             Page 43
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                       Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                                (including
Contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other        N.B.F
1. Works                             0.0           0.2          0.1          0.1            0.4
(0.0)        (0.2)        (0.1)        (0.0)          (0.3)
2. Goods                              1.9          1.2          0.0          0.2            3.3
(1.9)        (1.2)        (0.0)        (0.0)          (3.1)
Office Supplies                    0.0           0.1          0.0          0.0            0.1
(0.0)        (0.1)        (0.0)        (0.0)          (0.1)
Equipment                          1.0           0.2          0.0         0.1             1.3
(1.0)        (0.2)        (0.0)        (0.0)          (1.2)
Vehicles                           0.9           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.9
(0.9)        (0.0)        (0.0)        (0.0)          (0.9)
Publications/documentation         0.0           0.9          0.0         0.1             1.0
(0.0)        (0.9)        (0.0)        (0.0)          (0.9)
3. Services                           1.0           1.0         5.0          0.9            7.9
(1.0)        (1.0)        (5.0)        (0.0)          (7.0)
Consulting Services                1.0           1.0         4.1           0.8           6.9
(1.0)        (1.0)        (4.1)        ( )          (6.1)
Temporary Staff                    0.0           0.0          0.9         0.1             1.0
(0.0)        (0.0)        (0.9)        (0.0)          (0.9)
0.5          0.8          2.8          0.5            4.6
4. Training                          (0.5)        (0.8)        (2.8)        (0.0)          (4.1)
0.5          0.8          2.1          0.4            3.8
Training & IEC                    (0.5)         (0.8)        (2.1)        (0.0)          (3.4)
Contract Staff                     0.0           0.0          0.7         0.1            0.8
(0.0)        (0.0)        (0.7)        (0.0)          (0.7)
5. Operating Costs                   0.0           0.0          1.5          0.1            1.6
(0.0)        (0.0)        (1.5)        (0.0)          (1.5)
6. Miscellaneous/Contingency         0.0           0.0          1.4          0.1            1.5
& PPF Refinancing                 (0.0)        (0.0)        (1.4)        (0.0)          (1.4)
Total                                 3.4          3.2         10.8          1.9           19.4
(3.4)        (3.2)       (10.8)        (0.0)         (17.5)
Note: Totals may not add because of rounding.
Notes:  a.     Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
b.     ICB = International Competitive Bidding
c.     NCB = National Competitive Bidding
d.     Other procurement methods include shopping, selection of consultants following IDA guidelines,
expenditures following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA, and direct purchasing of goods.
e.     N.B.F. - Not Bank-financed.
f.     "Goods" includes purchase of equipment, related supplies, and vehicles.
g.     Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project
implementation, management and supervision, as well as financing of the technical unit in charge of monitoring the
economic reform program, including office supplies, communication costs, financing of vehicles acquisition,
operation and maintenance, banking charges on the special accounts, and travel allowance of project staff, but
excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project     Page 44
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(In US$ million equivalent)
.el~tion V  thGd                      Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                             incluing
EF;Xpeitare Category   __                                                     contingencifs
________. __        _     S       A    SFB   LCS   C         OQ ther  N.B.F.
A. Firms                   3.5    N/A  _         0.2  _         1.0      -          4.7
Generally                  3.5    N/A             -             0.8      -          4.3
Audits & Standard Nature    -     N/A            0.2             -       -          0.2
Single Source               -     N/A             -             0.2      -          0.2
B. Individuals             1.0    N/A             -     0.4      -      0,8         2.2
All                        1.0    N/A             -     0.4      -      0.8         2.2
Total   4.5    N/A            0.2    0.4    1.0      0.8          6.9
Note: Totals may not add because of rounding.
Note
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
QBS = Quality-based Selection.
SBF = Selection under a Fixed 13udget.
LCS = Least-Cost Selection.
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial[ Practices, and Single Sourcing.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 45
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(Amount in US$)
Expenditure      Contract Value    Procurement      Contracts Subject to
Category         (Threshold)        Method      Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value in US$ million
Subject to Prior Review
1. Works          Below US200,000        NCB       US$0.0
Below US30,000     Quotations   US$0,0
2. Goods          $100,000 and above  ICB          US$2.4
Between $20,000    NCB           US$0.0
and $100,000
Below $20,000      3 quotations   US$0.0
(national)
3. Consulting     $100,000 and above  QCBS +       US$2.6
Firms                                Short List    Technical evaluation receives
IDA non-objection before
opening financial proposals.
Issue an advertisement in the
B.D. to get expression of
interests.
Below US$100,000   QCBS +        US$0.0
Short List
Below US$50,000    QCBS +        US$0.0
Short List   Short lists may be comprised
entirely of national firms if
there are at least three
reliable national firms
4. Individual     $50,000 and above   Comparison   US$0.1
Consultants                          of at least 3
CVs
Below $50,000      Comparison   US$0.0
of at least 3
CVs
5. Miscellaneous   NA                NA            NA
Total Value of      _                -             $5.1 million (or 50% of the
Contracts Subject                                  total value of contracts)
to Prior Review:



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 46
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in              Disbursement
(US$ million)
1. Works                                 0.3  919% of local expenditure
2. Goods                                 3.1  100% of foreign expenditures and
90% of local expenditures
3. Consultants' Services and             7.0  100% of expenditures
Audits
4. Training                              4.1  100% of foreign expenditure and
90% of local expenditure
5. Operating Costs                       1.5  90%
6. Refunding of Project                  0.7  Amount due pursuant to Section
Preparation Advance                           2 02 (c) of the Development Credit
(PPF Q199-0)                                  Agreement
Unallocated                              0.7  NA
Total          17.5 _
Note: Totals may not add because of rounding.
17.   Disbursement Procedures. Disbursements will be made in accordance with the procedures and
policies outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
18.   Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Expenditures under contracts for goods and
consulting firms valued at less than US$ 100,000; individual consulting services valued at less than US$
50,000; civil works; training; and all operating costs will be claimed for financing using SOEs.
Documents verifying expenditures under SOE procedures shall be retained, for review by IDA
Supervision Missions and independent audit, at project offices.
19.   Special Accounts. There will be two special accounts opened at commercial banks acceptable to
IDA, one for each executing agency.
A. Special Account "A" for the Public Financial Management Component to be implemented by
MOF: authorized allocation CFAF300 million. Upon effectiveness, 50% of the authorized allocation
(CFAF150 million) would be advanced to MOF. Once disbursements total SDR two million, the
special account would be provisioned for the full amount of the authorized allocation. This special
account will finance expenditures under categories 1, 2, 3, 4., and 5.
B. Special Account "B" for the other four Components to be implemented by CE: authorized
allocation CFAF300 million. Upon effectiveness, 50% of the authorized allocation (CFAF150
million) would be advanced to CE. Once disbursements total SDR two million, the special account
would be provisioned for the full amount of the authorized allocation. This special account will
finance expenditures under categories 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
20.   The Special Accounts will be managed on an imprest basis, using acceptable accounting records
suitable for management imprest account. Each executing agency will manage accounting, procurement,
and reporting records suitable for the project components for which it has direct responsibility. Project
accounts will be consolidated monthly at the CE on the basis of statements prepared by MOF for the
public financial management component. CE and MOF will reconcile monthly the special accounts with
the bank statements, to ensure satisfactory accounting for Special Account funds. CE and MOF will
compute monthly a reconciliation of uncommitted funds (in SI)R) available for each project component,



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 47
and will prepare monthly withdrawal applications for replenishment of the two Special Accounts. For
both special accounts, replenishment applications must be prepared on a monthly basis, regardless of the
level of activity during the month. IDA will replenish directly each special account.
21.   Minimum Value for Direct Payments and Issuance of Special Commitments (SCs). Direct
payment requests and applications for issuance of special commitments must be valued at least 20% of
the special account advance outstanding at the time of submission. Therefore, when both special account
are CFAF150 million, the minimum application value for direct payments and SCs will be $50,000 which
will increase to $100,000 once the entire authorized allocation is advanced to the special accounts.
22.   Flow of Funds. No subsidiary accounts or use of the special 90-day advance procedure will be
authorized. Government's share of expenditures will be financed at the time of payment to suppliers and
only the IDA-eligible portion will be withdrawn from the special accounts.
23.   Financial Management. The project accounting system maintained by CE under Cr. No.2818
has been assessed by IDA and found to be compliant with the Bank procedures as stated in OPJBP 10.02.
MOF will be required to implement a similar accounting system. MOF will submit monthly to CE
statements of account in the appropriate format, with a view to consolidating project accounts. The
project accounting system for the proposed project is compliant with OP/BP 10.02. The accounting staff
of CE is adequately qualified and trained for keeping project accounting records, as documented by the
latest audit reports of CE, which indicate that the recommendations of external auditors have been
implemented and have resulted in an audit opinion free of significant qualifications. The accounting
software currently installed at CE is adequate for the purposes of project accounting and appears capable
of keeping the books for several project accounts simultaneously. CE will submit to IDA quarterly Project
Monitoring Reports (PMRs) starting in the second phase of the project, no later than 18 months from
credit effectiveness. CE will prepare by end-2000 an action plan acceptable to IDA to ensure timely
production of the PMRs.
24.   MOF (for the public financial management component) and CE (for the other project
components) will prepare annual accounts for extemal audit, not later than four months after the end of
the borrower's fiscal year. Signed audit reports will be submitted annually to IDA no later than six
months after the end of the borrower's fiscal year. The audit reports will cover project accounts, the
respective special account, and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The present auditing arrangements
for Cr. No.2818 are satisfactory, and would be in principle extended to the proposed project. The present
auditors of Cr. No.2818 have been found to be acceptable and would be allowed to continue for the first
year of project implementation, in order to facilitate the transition of CE to keeping the books of the
proposed project in addition to those of Cr. No.2818. The auditors will be subsequently replaced, since
they have already audited Cr. No.2818 project accounts for more than three consecutive years. The two
implementation agencies should select and retain jointly the same auditor.
25.   CE would take the following actions to upgrade its project management capability:
i. before effectiveness, it would: (a) finalize and adopt the Project Implementation Manual for
administrative, financial and accounting procedures; (b) establish a financial management system
for the project; and (c) open a project account for counterpart funds, with an initial provisioning of
FCFA60 million, to be replenished quarterly or as soon as FCFA45 million were disbursed;
ii. within 18 months after credit effectiveness, it would undertake a time-bound action plan to further
strengthen financial management, in order to be able to produce Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs)
satisfactory to the Association; and



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project      Page 48
iii. during project implementation, it would undertake annual audits and submit them to IDA within six
months from the end of the respective fiscal year.
26.    MOF  would  utilize the project administrative, accounting, financial and  procurement
arrangements (including accounting software), the project implementation manual, and the accounting
plan developed by CE. MOF would take the following actions to establish project management
capability:
i. before effectiveness it would: (a) make available the necessary office space and equipment to the
unit which will execute the public financial management component; (b) adopt the project
implementation manual developed by the CE; and (c) establish a financial management system for
the project;
ii. within 18 months after credit effectiveness will undertake a time-bound action plan to further
strengthen financial management in order to be able to produce Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs)
satisfactory to the Association;
iii. during project implementation, undertake annual audits and submit them to IDA within six months
from the end of the respective fiscal year.
Estimated IDA Disbursements (lJS$ million)
Annual         2.0          3.5          3.5         3.5           3.0         2.0
Cumulative       2.0          5.5          9.0        1]2.5         15.5        17.5



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 49
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
Time taken to prepare the project               10                   10
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)         02/0111999          02/01/1999
Appraisal mission departure                  18/06/1999          18/06/1999
Negotiations                                12/07/1999           12110/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness               01/01/2000          04/30/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Economic Promotion,
Development and Cooperation (MEPDC), Cellule Economique (CE) attached to
MEPDC.
Preparation assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Eugen Scanteie                                 Principal Country Economist
Guenter Heidenhof                              Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Joel Tokindang                                 Economist/Statistician
Bertrand de Chazal                             Senior Financial Analyst
Jerome Chevallier                              Consultant
Georges Toussaint                              IMF - Fiscal Affairs Department
Luc Lapointe                                   Consultant - Procurement
Fulvio Carbonaro                               Consultant - Information Systems






Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Chad: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Concept Document (January 4, 1999)
Quality Review Panel Report on the Chad - Cameroon Pipeline and Related Capacity
Building Projects (April 6, 1999)
Review of Chad's Fiscal Administration (IMF, Fiscal Affairs Department, December 1998)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Implementation Completion Report, Economic and Financial Management Project (Cr.
No. 1 872-CD)
Supervision Reports, Capacity Building project for Economic Management (Cr. No.2818-
CD)
Chad - Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 19365 - CD)
MOP Capacity Building Project for Economic Management (Report No.P-6729-CD)
C. Other
Tchad - Strategie de gestion de 1 'conomie a I 'lre pitroliWe, Government of Chad
Loi portant gestion des revenus petroliers, Government of Chad
Programme d'appui au renforcement des capacitis de gestion, Government of Chad
(Ministry of Planning)
Plan d'operations du programme de renforcement des capacites nationales du Tchad,
Government of Chad (SENAREC)
La reforme de l 'administration publique au Tchad, Government of Chad (CESRAP)
*Including electronic files.






Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project                                Page 53
ANNEX 9: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
OPERATIONS PORTFOUO
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual          Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                              disbursements a/   Supervision
Rating b/
Project ID    Year           Borrower                 Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig    Frm            Dev    Imp
Rev'd      LOb     Prog
Number of Closed Pro3ects: 26
Active Projects
TD-PE-528        1991   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  ENGINEERING                     0.00    11.00         0.00       4.40     4.58        4.70    S        S
TD-PE-530        1993   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  TRANSPORT SECT II                0.00    49.70        0.00       2.50   -11.18        1.07     S       S
TD-PE-517        1993   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  BASIC EDUCATION                 0.00    19.30         0.00      10.06    10.26        0.00    S        S
TD-PE-509        1994   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  HEALTH & SAFE MOTHER             0.00    29.40        0.00      10.37    -2.54          .93    S       S
TD-PE-35601      1995   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  POPULATION & AIDS CO             0.00    20.40        0.00       9.78     1.81        0.00    S        S
TD-PE-501        1995   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  AGRICULTURAL SERVICES           0.00    24.53         0.00      10.13     1.10        0.00    U        U
TD-PE-35623      1996   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  CAPACITY BUILDING               0.00      9.50        0.00       1.37     2.03        0.00    S        S
TD-PE-532        1998   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  HOUSEHOLD ENERGY                 0.00     5.27        0.00       5.35     1.68        0.00    S        S
TD-PE-44974      1999   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD  SAC III                          0.00    30 00        0.00        .04   -29.74        0.00
Total                                                                       0.00   199.10         0.00      54.00   -22.00        6.70
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  142.41              402.81              545.22
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               23.41                23.41
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  199.10              379.90              579.00
Amount sold                                        0.00                6.00                 6.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                6.00                6.00
Total Undisbursed                :                54.00               11.36                65.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was
introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.






Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project                                                 Page 55
Annex 10: Chad at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and S0CIAL                                         Saharan      Low.
C11      AttIca  inmome       Oevatopment dtantond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       7 3       628     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    230       480       520
GNP (Atlas merhod, US$bilkions)                       1 7       304     1.844
Average annu2. growth, 1992-98
Population[%)                                         25        26        17
Labor force ('A)                                      2 5       2 6       1 9     GNP             "                Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avallebla, 1992-98)                             capita      fenrollmant
Poverty (% of popation belbw naiona poventyolJe)      80         40
Urban population (% cf total population)               23        33        31
Lffo expectancy at birth (years)                       49        51        63
Intentmortality(pe 1,000livebirths)                  100         91       69
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)             39                                    Access to saFe water
Access to safe water (F. of population)                24        47        74
Illiteracy ($6 of population age 15+)                 52         42        32
Gross primary enrollmern (%8i of school-age population,  55      77       108      -Chad    -Lowincome group
Male                                                 74        84       1`13         Chd         -owicmgru
Female                                              36        69        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMll TRENDS
1977    1987       1997      1998
Economic ratIos^
GDP (US$ billions)                          094       1 2       1 5       17
Gross domestlc investrenttGDP               18S5      91       16 9      169
Exports of goods and servicesGDP            15 4     154       191  1:9 2                        Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      0 1       1 9
Gross national savingsaGOP                                      Z8        4 0
CLuent account balancelGDP                 -14 0    -13 0      -141     -12 9     Dometi                       I
Interest paymer8tGDP                         0 1      0 3       1 0       1                                   Investment
Totai debtGDP                               15 8     27 9      549       516      Savigs
Total debt service/exports                   2 7      4 0      12 2      13.7
Present value of debtlGDP
Present value of debUexports
Indebtedness
i977-87  198848     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP:                                21       20       41        8.t 3-     4        -Chad -          Low-incomegroup
GNP percapita                      -02      -08a      3 5       2 8
Merchandise exports                 0 8      3 0     207        S0:       8 0
STRLsCTURE of the ECONOMY
(-A of GDP)                                 1977    1987       1997      1998     Gro-thratesof outpuit andInvestment
Agriculture                                 35 2     331       37 4      386      e
Industry                                    136      146       147       139
Manufacturing                              108      114       124       11 7     20
Services                                    51S      52 3      47 9      47 5      o
-20    g           d         0r7   DEs
Private consumption                         77 7     95 8      889       88 7     40
General govemment consumption               169      158       109        94
Imports of goods and services               284      36 4      359       34 3                _        GDI   -GDP
1977-87  1988-#8     1997      19#8
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of sxports and Imports (-t/e
Agriculture                                  01       4 4       51       11 2     30
Industry                                     21       16        94       104    20
Manufacturing                                                 125       109     to
Services                                     3 0      -02       1 5       4 0
a
Private consumption                          4 1      06        -03       82
General government consumption              -1 3      -43       -56       -64
Gross domestic investment                   -80       0 1                -2 9    -20
Merchandise imports                          4 3     -2 5       5 4      -7 8    |        -    Fexports    at impars
Gross national product                       21       1 7       43        84
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum  Economy Project                                                      Page 56
Chacld   
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      inflatIon j%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           rI
Consumer prices                                         -6 0       5 9       4 4     40
Implicit GDP deflator                          8 6      -31        2 8       4 t
Government finance
(% of GOP)
Current revenue                                         5 6        7 7       7 6     .20
Current budget balance                                 -2 3       -0 6       0 1             -    GDP detlator  -f-Pi
Overall surplus/deficit                               -18 0      -10 2      -7 7
TRADE
('S$ millions1977                                       987       197      198       Export and Import levels (US$ mtllions)
Total exports (fob)                                     109        243      267                                                   .
Cotton                                                 41        115       146
Meat                                                   42         61        64
Manufactures                                            4                          324
Total imports (r?)                                      366        424      454
Food                                                    18        18        19     12-
Fuel and erergy                                        36         18        33
Capital goods                                          90        156       169         I
Export price index (f995=fOO)                            81        96       100            2   93   94   95   r
Import price index (1995=100)                            74        104      110    |             Eporis      AImpOstS
Terns of trade (1995=100)                               109         92       91 t>
BALANCE oS PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987      1997      1998           eat account balance to GOP ratio %] 
Exports of goods and services                  131      180       293       326                       f
Imports of goods and services                  246      424        550      581      -2
Resource balance                              -115     -244       -257     -255       4
Neo income                                      -2      -11        -35      -32     |
Net current transfers                                              76        69 -:
CurrentaccDuntba;ince           -t31                   -151       -216     -219    -lo t
Financing items (net)                          127      160       172       197      -14
Changes in net reserves                          4      -30         44       22      1.6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$milions)            20       57       174       135
Cenversion rate (DEC, iocal/UJS$)              246      301       583       589
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998                                          _:8
(US$ miibons)                                                                       |Cmpasition oftotal debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total dabt outstanding and disbursed           148      325       642       876
IBRDO                                          0        0         0         0
IBRD                  O        O          O         O     R              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F: 15  G: 7
IDA                                          24        61       457       472
Total detb service                               4        7         35       47
IBRD                                          O         0         0         0
IDA                                            0        1         5         7
Composition of nat resource flows                                                                                     s: 472
Official grants                                                                   I     :15      _
Official creditors                            30       38        42        94
Private creditors                              7        3         0         -1
Foreign direct investment                                        37        81
Portfolio equity                              O         O         O         O     I           oo
World Bank programr
Commitments                                    2       19        25        16      A- IRD                        E srale.1
Disbursements                                  8       13        48        29    -B IDA      D- Omer matil.terrl   F - Pdrvsa
Principal repaymants                           0        1         2         3     IC IM                           -Short-te
Net flows                                      8       12        4S        26     I-
Interest paymnsnts                             0        1         3         4
Net transfers                                  a       12        43        22
Development Economics                                                                                                   129/99     9



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 57
ANNEX 11: PETROLEUM REVENUE MANAGEMENT: REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Part A: Summary
1.    Petroleum revenues would present Chad both with a unique opportunity to reduce poverty,
and with tangible risks. Drawing on international experience, Chad is aware of the systemic
transformation of the economy frequently brought about by injection of substantial petroleum
resources and the need for a longer term perspective for poverty reduction. To achieve its objective
of poverty reduction given these factors, the Government has worked closely with the Bank to
delineate a petroleum revenue management program (the Revenue Management Program) and has
articulated a Strategy for the Management of the Petroleum Economy (Annex 11-C of this
document). Chad's Parliament has adopted a Law on Oil Revenue Management (Annex Il-B of
this document). The Program seeks to reduce poverty by isolating the petroleum revenues and
targeting their use to the priority poverty sectors in the context of Chad's sector-wide programs and
global Government expenditure patterns.
2.    The thrust of the Government's strategy is to target the bulk of oil revenues for incremental
poverty alleviation activities in a transparent manner. It relies on several key features:
* A framework guiding the use of oil revenues, which provides, inter alia, for quantitative
targets for the allocation of the bulk of oil revenues to priority poverty reduction activities,
mandatory long-term savings of a portion of the revenues, explicit commitment and
disbursement norms, and oversight and monitoring mechanisms, including non-Governmental
mechanisms.
*  Initiatives to build Government's capacity to use oil revenues effectively within key sectors
and to manage their impact on the economy, including the development of sector expenditure
programs.
* Bank support and monitoring throughout implementation to promote the allocation of
resources to effective development activities, as well as reporting/auditing requirements.
3.    The Government is strongly committed to broadening and deepening economic reforms
and strengthening financial discipline; strengthening sector strategies and designing and
implementing effective poverty reduction programs and activities; and developing national
implementation capacities. The Government's strategy enjoys broad political support from the
country's leadership and legislature, attempts to address various concerns raised by civil society,
and hinges on the support of Chad's external partners. It is consistent with and builds on the
ongoing economic reform objectives.
4.    The Program: The Revenue Management Program agreed with the Bank contains the
following detailed elements:
(i) petroleum revenues (net of financing costs for the petroleum activities) will be channeled
through project off-shore escrow accounts, which will be audited;
(ii) royalties and dividends (representing about 85 percent of expected revenues over the first
ten years of production) will be invested as follows:



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 58
(a) 10 percent of this revenue stream will be invested with an external financial institution in
long-term investment instruments, and upon liquidation would be used to benefit poverty
reduction objectives of future generations (the "Future Generations Fund");
(b) 90 percent of these revenues will transit through special Treasury accounts held in one or
two private commercial banks in Chad (the "Special Petroleum Revenues Accounts") to be
used to finance incremental expenditures in the five specified priority sectors relating to
poverty alleviation, distributions to the producing region and Government recurrent
expenditures as described below;
(iii) income taxes on the oil field operations (which begin accruing around the seventh year of
production or thereafter, depending in part on oil prices) and on the pipeline company will be
used to support increased development expenditures generally.
5.    The Special Petroleum Revenue Account(s) will operate under the following modalities:
*  80 percent of royalties and 85% of dividends deposited into the Special Petroleum Revenue
Accounts will be devoted to expenditures in key poverty reduction sectors (education, health
and social services, rural development, infrastructure, and environment and water resources).
* Expenditures from oil revenues in these sectors will be incremental to Government spending
in these sectors prior to the arrival of oil revenues.
*  In addition, 5 percent of royalties deposited into such accounts will be allocated as a
supplement to the oil producing region to be programmed by local authorities.
3 During the first five years (i.e., before oilfield income taxes provide another possible source
of revenues), the residual 15 percent of royalties and dividends can be used to finance general
Government expenditure in the civil sectors to help meet pressing Government operational
needs; after this five-year period, this portion will be added to the 80% of royalties and 85% of
dividends used to finance the priority poverty reduction sectors.
*  Revenues which cannot be used efficiently for the agreed objectives, or the mobilization of
which would jeopardize macroeconomic stability, will be sterilized (the arrangements to be
agreed upon with the Bank).
6.     Control and audit mechanisms include the following:
* The Future Generations Fund will be held with a financial institution acceptable to the World
Bank and the Special Petroleum Revenue Accounts will be held in private commercial banks
in Chad acceptable to the Bank.
*  Disbursements from the special petroleum accounts will be made only on the basis of annual
expenditure programs designed to reduce poverty, agreed upon with the World Bank and
approved by the Parliament as part of the budget.
* Disbursements will be made following review by an independent oversight committee
including representatives of the Government, Parliament and civil society (an NGO and a
trade union representative) to determine their conformity with the agreed expenditure
program. The oversight committee will authorize and verify disbursements and issue
quarterly reports, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
* Ex-post controls will include annual audits of the Petroleum Revenues Accounts and of the
Future Generations Fund by auditors mutually acceptable to Chad and the Bank operating
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 59
*  The audits and reports of the oversight committee will be published.
* The Bank will support Chad in monitoring the effectiveness of its programs, including
through periodic public expenditure reviews to be carried out jointly with the International
Monetary Fund.
* The Government will, in conjunction with the Bank, develop investment criteria for the
Future Generations Fund.
7.     The Law: As a first step, the Chad Parliament approved, on December 30, 1998, a law that
sets out the key elements of the Petroleum Revenue Management Program. It contains provisions:
(a) allocating 10% of royalty and dividend revenues to the future generations fund; (b) directing the
balance of royalties and dividend revenues to special accounts to be held in local banks;
(c) allocating 80% of these funds to the above enumerated 5 priority sectors in accordance with
Parliamentary approved budgets; (d) allocating 5% of royalties to the producing region;
(e) allocating during the first five years 15% of royalties and dividends to financing Government
expenditures; (f) establishing the Government/civil society oversight committee; and (g) various
auditing and reporting mechanisms, including audits of the special accounts and the future
generations fund.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 60
Part B: Law on Petroleum Revenue Management
(Translation)
Act No. 001/PR/99 concerning
Oil Revenues Management
Having regard to the Constitution,                 in accordance with the provisions of
Article 9 of this Act.
The National Assembly discussed
and adopted the above-cited Act on            Article 4:    Indirect income, namely
December 30, 1998;                            taxes, charges, and customs duties, shall be
deposited directly with the Treasury.
The President of the Republic hereby
promulgates this Act, which reads as follows:  Article 5:   The various types of income
referred to in Article 2 of this Act shall be
CHAPTER I: GENERAL PROVISION                  accounted for in their entirety in the general
state budget.
Article l:    The objective of this Act is
to-establish the procedures for managing oil  Article 6:    Revenues shall be allocated
revenues from the exploitation of three (3)   in accordance with the criteria set out in
fields, namely Kome, Miandoum, and            Chapter II of this Act.
Bolobo.
CHAP'TER II: ALLOCATION OF
Article 2:   Oil revenues shall consist of    REVENUES
direct and indirect income.
SECTION 1: PRIORITY SECTORS AND
Direct income shall consist of         REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION:
dividends and royalties;
Article 7:    Direct income shall be
Indirect income shall include taxes,   allocated primarily to priority sectors.
charges, and customs duties levied in
connection with oil exports.                         The following are considered priority
sectors: public health and social affairs,
Article 3:    The direct income referred to   education, infrastructure, rural development
in the second paragraph of Article 2 shall be  (agriculture and livestock), environment, and
deposited in an offshore escrow account       water resources.
opened specifically for this purpose by the
Government of Chad at an international        Article 8:    Indirect income comprising
financial institution.                        dividends and royalties which have been
deposited in the special accounts referred to
The funds shall be divided as          in the second paragraph of Article 3 above
follows:                                      shall be allocated as follows:
-  Ninety percent shall be deposited in            (a)    Eighty percent (80%) for
special treasury accounts situated in    expenditures in the priority sectors listed in
one or two local banks;                  the second paragraph of Article 7 above;
-  The remaining ten percent shall be              (b)    Fifteen percent (15%) for
deposited in a savings account opened    current Government operating and
invest'ment expenses for a period of five



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 61
years as from the date the income was        SECTION 2:  DISBURSEMENT
generated;                                   CRITERIA
(c)    Five percent (5%) of           Article 12:    Funds deposited in special
royalties shall be allocated to decentralized  accounts to defray expenditures in priority
communities in the producing region in       sectors shall be earmarked in accordance
accordance with the provisions of Article 212  with the public expenditure program
of the Constitution;                         prepared annually by the Government.
This amount may be changed by                The program is one element of a
decree at five-year intervals in the light of  triennial development process and is a
available resources and the needs and        reference point for the Finance Act. The
absorptive capacity of the region;           Government shall review the program
annually.
Procedures for management and
monitoring of these funds shall be developed       In accordance with the principle of
in accordance with existing instruments      additionality, expenditures from oil revenues
regulating Government accounting.            paid in respect of priority sectors shall be
additional to items in the general budget for
SECTION 2:  SAVINGS                          the fiscal year preceding the initial oil
receipts.
Article 9:   Ten percent (10%) of the
direct revenues, i.e., the royalties and     Article 13:
dividends referred to in Article 3 of the
present Act, shall be deposited in a savings        Requests for disbursements from the
account opened in an international financial  approving officer of the general state budget
institution for the benefit of future        shall be made in accordance with the
generations, in accordance with the          procedures set out in the Finance Act and
regulations of the Bank of Central African   shall require the express authorization of the
States (BEAC).                               Oil Revenues Control and Monitoring Board
(CCSRP)..
CHAPTER III: MECHANISMS FOR
MANAGING SPECIAL ACCOUNTS                    CHAPTER IV: SUPERVISORY
INSTITUTIONS
SECTION 1: OPERATIONS
Article 14:    The mobilization and use of
Article 10:    The mechanism for             oil revenues shall be monitored separately or
managing special accounts shall conform to  jointly by the Comptroller of the Ministry of
the conventional budget wisdom of the State,  Finance and Economy, CCSRP, the Audit
namely respect for procedures relating to    Office of the Supreme Court, and Parliament.
approval, disbursement, monitoring, and
control of the general state budget.         SECTION 1:  OIL REVENUES
CONTROL AND MONITORING BOARD
Article 11:    The special accounts shall be  (CCSRP)
established in one or two primary local
commercial banks certified by COBAC, the     Article 15:    An Oil Revenues Control
regional bank supervision agency. They       and Monitoring Board (CCSRP) is hereby
shall be funded directly from the escrow     established.
account referred to in the first paragraph of
Article 3 of the present Act.                Article 16:    CCSRP shall include the
following members:



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy F'roject  Page 62
provisions governing the establishment of
- one magistrate serving on the Supreme       reserves or the placement of surplus income
Court                                      overseas.
- one deputy
- one senator                                 SECTION 3:  MONITORING
- the national director of BEAC               PROCEDURES
- the Central Treasurer
- the Director of Issues Relating to Oil      Article 22:    The mobilization, allocation,
Revenues                                   and use of oil revenues shall be monitored
- the Director of Planning and Development    via periodic audits and reports prepared for
- one representative of local NGOs            the Government, including:
- one trade union representative.
-    annual audits of special accounts and
Article 17:    Members of CCSRP                     the savings account for future
representing Parliament, the Supreme Court,         generations;
national NGOs, and trade unions shall be
designated and appointed for a term of three  -    periodic management reports on the
(3) years which shall be renewable once.            savings account for future generations
and savings accounts for possible
Article 18:    It shall be the responsibility       surplus income;
of CCSRP to:
-    periodic reports by CCSRP;
(a)    ensure that commitments for
funding from the special accounts meet the    -    reports and audits by COBAC of
requirements of the Finance Act;                    primary banks responsible for
managing specific special accounts;
(b)    authorize and monitor
disbursements from the special accounts and   -    annual audits of general state budget
the appropriation of funds.                         performance prepared by the Audit
Office.
Article 19:    The operational and
organizational procedures of CCSRP and the    The Government shall publish these reports
conditions governing its control and          and audits annually.
supervisory functions shall be set out by
decree.                                       CHAPTER V: FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 2:  ADDITIONAL                        Article 23:    The present Act shall be duly
INSTITUTIONS EXERCISING CONTROL               recorded, published in the Official Gazette of
the Republic, and implemented as an Act of
Article 20:    Parliament shall control the   the State.
allocation of oil revenues by adopting and
monitoring the implementation of the general         Done in N'Djamena on January 11,
state budget.                                 1999.
Article 21:    The Audit Office of the
Supreme Court shall monitor the legality of
state expenditures by reviewing official
revenue accounts and monitoring legislation
concerning the allocation of resources
between the general state budget and the
decentralized communities as well as



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 63
Part C: Letter of Policy on Petroleum Revenue Management
(translation)
Republic of Chad
Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
Cabinet of the Minister                           N'Djamena, July 7, 1999
No. 643/MPAT/CAB/99
THE MINISTER OF PLANNING AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
TO
MR. SERGE MICHAILOF
DIRECTOR FOR CEMAC STATES
AFRICA REGION
WASHINGTON - DC
Mister Director,
Please find attached the strategy for the management of the petroleum economy,
articulated by the Government in anticipation of the forthcoming exploitation of the Doba
deposits.
I would like to highlight the fact that this strategy has been articulated following
two and a half years of intense consultations which associated numerous domestic partners,
in particular within the Civil Society.
The Law No. 00I/PR/99 of January I 1, 1999 concerning the management of
petroleum revenues is one of the concrete results of these consultations.
Please accept my highest regards.
MAHAMAT ALI HASSAN
Cc: PR
PM



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 64
CHAD
STRATEGY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY
CONTENTS
I.   DEVELOPMENT CONTEXT
1. Foreword
2. Financial stabilization and economic reform
3. Poverty reduction strategy
4. The changing role of the State and private sector development
5. Development of petroleum resources
II.  GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR MANAGING TIHE PETROLEUM ECONOMY
1. International experience
2. Priority utilization of petroleum revenue for poverty reduction
3. Prudence and protection of the interests of future generations
4. Participatory approach
5. Transparency
6. Regional balance
III.  MANAGEMENT OF PETROLEUM REVENUE
1. Mobilization and uses
2. Flow of funds and allocation
3. Disbursement and saving
4. Control and oversight
IV.   SUSTAINABILITY OF POLICIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT
1. Strengthening national capacities
2. Risk management
3. Managing the transition to the petroleum economly



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 65
I.   DEVELOPMENT CONTEXT
1.    Foreword
1.    Chad is confronted with serious development constraints.  The country is huge and
landlocked, has a low density of population, and less than favorable climatic conditions. Its
economy is not diversified, the formal economy is small, and regional differences are important.
Almost 30 yeats of civil war have had a severe impact on Chad's economy and human resources.
Compared with other African countries, development is a more arduous task, and sustainable
actions and programs cost more.
2.    These development constraints notwithstanding, Chad has considerable potential.
Development of its important human and natural resources could accelerate economic growth and
reduce poverty. In addition to petroleum, Chad has important deposits of gold, iron, bauxite and
other minerals. Agricultural and livestock potential, equally considerable though underutilized,
could further accelerate development.
3.    Despite this development potential, Chad is among the poorest countries in the World. The
LIN 1997 World Report on Human Development ranks it 164th among 175 countries surveyed.
This ranking reflects real human distress, including serious problems of food security and limited
access to basic health and education. Rapid population growth further worsens this situation. The
country is confronted by a major poverty problem. A Poverty Assessment carried out by the World
Bank in 1997 documents poor living standards (education, health care, access to safe water and
sanitation, housing, nutrition, mortality and morbidity), generally below the average standards in
sub-Saharan Africa. Their impact is felt in low labor productivity, especially rural, and low
incomes. Social indicators are significantly lower for women. ThePoverty Assessment found that
Chad could significantly reduce poverty by using efficiently external resources and revenue to be
generated by development of petroleum resources for poverty reduction, in the context of adequate
public expenditure policies.
4.    In recent years, the Government made important efforts to address the aftermath of the past
30 years of civil strife. These efforts are yet to make a visible impact on social standards and
poverty reduction.  Since 1994, political liberalization and economic reconstruction took
precedence. This allowed restoring social peace, organizing free general elections, and making
progress towards the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, public administration, economic
production, and a viable macroeconomic situation. Progress towards poverty reduction, however,
remains slow. Chad must accelerate economic growth and invest more in its human resources.
Sustainable poverty reduction requires economic reform and changes in mentality, additional
financial resources, and considerable strengthening of absorptive capacities.
5.    The Government intends to pursue aggressively this objective by: (i) continuing the
ongoing financial consolidation and economic reform program; (ii) articulating and implementing a
new medium to long term development strategy; (iii) rethinking the role of the State and sharing of
responsibilities with its partners; (iv) improving the institutional framework for development; and
(v) strengthening national capacities. These activities will be undertaken in the context of
developing petroleum resources, and the main objective is poverty reduction.
2.     Financial Stabilization and Economic Reform
6.     Since 1994, Chad has been firmly committed to a program of structural reform, which
seeks to accelerate economic growth and curtail poverty. In September 1996, the Government



Project Appraisal Dbcument: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 66
adopted a Policy Framework Paper for the 1997-99 period; this framework was updated in March
1998 for the 1998-2000 period. Chad's partners support this strategy.
7.    The Government's resolve to implement the adjustment program has reversed past trends
of economic stagnation, deterioration of macroeconomic balances, and degradation of social
standards. Progress was mad in several areas:
* Chad's economy is more vigorous. Growth averaged 5.2% p.a. between 1994-97, despite
adverse climatic conditions. GDP grew by 6.5% in real terms in 1997. The projected objective
of 6% annual growth in the medium term appears feiasible and could even be exceeded once
petroleum resources are developed. Together with the Government's objective of reducing
population growth to 2% p.a. by 2005, this would allow an increase of per capita income of up
to 4% p.a. in the medium term, which would double per capita income in less than one
generation. Inflation is low.
* Public management has improved. Fiscal revenue increased from 4.9% of GDP in 1994 to
7.3% in 1997 (6.9% and 9.5%, respectively, on the basis of previous national accounts
estimates). It still covers, however, only 43% of the government's total expenditure, and only
91% of current expenditure. The Government has strengthened the management of the civil
service staffing and payroll, and has drastically downsized the military. Domestic and external
arrears are being reduced. This progress notwithstanding, additional efforts must be made to
improve the management of public expenditure and attain a sustainable budget balance.
* The role of the State is decreasing. The Authorities have undertaken to privatize most State-
owned enterprises. The next stage concerns mainly the privatization of the production and
distribution of water and electricity, of telecommunication, of public financial institutions, of
road maintenance, and of the cotton and sugar sectors. The Government has made specific
commitments in these areas under the economic program for 1998-2000.
- The economy has become more open. External trade and prices have been liberalized.
However, the current account deficit of the balance of payments (before grants), remains high,
at 20.2% of GDP in 1997, compared with 20.9% in 1994.
8.    The Government is firmly determined to continue the program of economic reform and
restore macroeconomic balances. Chad is implementing successfully a structural adjustment
program with the Bretton Woods Institutions.
3.    Poverty Reduction Strategy
9.    A ten-year indicative program - Chad in the Year 2000 - has underpinned Chad's long
term development policy. This document served to prepare the Fourth Round Table held in
Geneva in October 1998, and will be reinforced by the articulation of a global strategy for poverty
reduction, which the Authorities have already initiated. The Government will associate the civil
society and development partners to the definition of new development vision and appropriate
sector strategies. The current state of sector strategies is summarized in the following paragraphs.
10.   The rural sector provides employment and income to an estimated 80% of the population,
and holds the key to Chad's economic development. Effective poverty reduction can only be
achieved by increasing the incomes and improving the social standards of the rural population.
The Government will encourage private initiative to foster an increase in rural productivity,
especially by gradually eliminating monopolistic arrangements, liberalizing marketing structures,
and favoring the creation of producers' associations which could assume increased responsibility



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 67
for managing bank credit and marketing agricultural inputs. The State will focus on research,
diversification and promotion of high value added crops, improved access to agricultural markets
(roads, removal of traffic hindrances, circulation of economic information, etc.), safe water and
rural credit, environmental protection, basic education and health services, and strengthening of the
legislation and the judiciary.
11.    Women, who supply most of the rural labor, will receive special attention.  The
Government will review the legislation with a view to eliminating eventual obstacles to women's
access to land ownership, and will encourage the girls' access to education.
12.    Cotton and sugar are the main cash crops. Cotton generates 8.1% of GDP, 60% of the
merchandise exports, important fiscal revenue, and a large part of farmers' monetary income. The
Government intends to improve the efficiency of this sector by gradually opening it to competition,
and by improved performance and efficiency incentives. It is thus determined to pursue the reform
of the cotton sector and spin off oil and soap activities in anticipation of their privatization. The
Government also intends to initiate as soon as possible the articulation of a strategy for the
liberalization of this sector. In the same spirit, producer prices will be more closely indexed on
world market prices for cotton. In the sugar sector, the Government has lifted in January 1997 the
monopoly of SONASUT and has initiated its privatization, with the objective of completing it in
1999.
13.    Livestock plays an important role in generating employment and incomes in the rural
sector. The Government's policy in this sector aims at a sustainable increase in herders'
production and incomes through measures focused mainly on animal health and hygiene,
liberalization of veterinary products, creation of herders' associations, rural water supply, and
export regulatory reform.
14.    Animal health is an important element of the Government's livestock policy. Priority
actions include implementation of a national program to address livestock diseases, systematic
identification and eradication of vectors transmitting endemic diseases, and increased efforts to
immunize the animal stock against major outbreaks. In this context, the Farcha laboratory will
contribute to the production of antiviral vaccines.
15.    Poverty reduction measures include food security, replenishment of food security stocks,
and adequate nutrition. The Government will focus on maximizing local production and removing
barriers to domestic trade, by eliminating bottlenecks and hindrances to producers' ability to meet
local demand. This strategy will build among others on the encouraging results of agro-pastoral
projects in implementing more productive approaches based on the promotion of producers'
associations.  Particular attention will be given to rural hydraulics and the integration of
agriculture, livestock and environmental concerns.
16.    Environmental concerns are focused on the rational utilization of natural resources, and
ecological equilibrium. The dwindling Lake Chad and desertification, partly due to the intensive
exploitation of forestry resources in suburban areas, will receive particular attention. Specific
projects will seek to improve safe water supply and sanitation (which combine environmental and
public health concerns), and fight deforestation. Among others, the Government has implemented
an IDA-financed Household Energy Project which addresses N'Djamena's sustainable supply in
fuelwood. This project supports the transfer of the management of wood resources to villagers,
improved efficiency in the production of charcoal, and the introduction of less costly alternative
energy sources.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 68
17.   In the education sector, the Government has defined an education and training strategy
linked to employment (EFE) for the 1990-2000 period, which has been endorsed by the
international community. In this context, it increased the recurrent budget for primary education
five-fold and recruited about 700 new teachers between 1994-98. At the same time, it has sought
to improve the utilization of teachers and equipment, reduce the rates of repetition, reform
teachers' training, and increase the access of girls to education. These efforts are important but
will not suffice.
18.    A new education strategy now being prepared will seek to improve significantly literacy
and school attendance rates, now among the lowest in Africa. Under this strategy, the Government
would (i) increase the share of public expenditure for basic education, (ii) develop a partnership
between the State, parents' and students' associations, local communities, and the private sector,
and (iii) improve efficiency in the sector. As an example, an increasing proportion of primary
school teachers could be hired directly by parents' associations, with the role of the State limited to
budget subsidies. The Government intends to focus its resources on improving teaching standards,
including the reduction of class size.
19.    The Program Policy Paper dated June 4, 1997, reaffirmed the priority to be given to the
health sector.  The Government considers that higher quality basic health services are a
fundamental element of its poverty reduction strategy. Future progress will build on recent
measures, including: (i) the restructuring of the health sector and mapping of health services; (ii)
the "sanitary district" approach, which combines the provision of "minimum activities packages"
through the health centers, and of "complementary activit;ies packages" through district hospitals;
and (iii) the adoption of a drug supply policy which has improved access to essential generic drugs
for the public sector, private enterprises, and non-profit organizations.
20.    The Government is currently reviewing the National Health Policy and setting new
objectives for the next ten years. The main priorities are as follows: (i) development of human
resources, especially mid-level medical staff. On the average, the number of medical technicians in
Chad is one tenth of that in other countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The shortage of human
resources is a major hindrance to the provision of health services; (ii) decentralization of planning
and budgeting at regional and district level, contingent on strengthening technical and human
capacities; (iii) sector financing reform, to harmonize and strengthen community participation to
the management and financing of health services, and develop contractual partnerships to improve
sanitary coverage; and (iv) strengthened capacity of the central administration to coordinate and
manage. The pursuit of these objectives is essential to the implementation of sector expenditure
programs to be financed by petroleum revenue. In addition, health and hygiene services would
benefit from measures to improve sanitation and garbage collection, and access to safe water.
21.    According to the Population Policy Statement it adopted in May 1994, the Government
will seek to encourage population control and reduce the size of families, with a view to reducing
the rate of population growth from 2.5% in 1994 to 2% by year 2005. It will strengthen its efforts
to inform and educate religious, traditional and administrative leaders, carry out social
communication campaigns for family planning, and train health agents in family planning, to make
it a real component of the "minimum activities packages". The extension of family planning
services to the whole country will be facilitated by the increased operational responsibilities of the
health districts, and by improving the availability of conitraceptives in the health centers, through
the Central Drug Purchase Agency. The Government Would also continue to support the fight
against AIDS, and the ongoing program of social marketing of prophylactics. Finally, the
Government will pursue its objective of reducing family size by encouraging the education of girls,



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 69
supporting women's and children's rights, and improving the social status of women and their
contribution to development.
22.   Because Chad is landlocked and has a vast area, transports are costly and difficult. This is
why this sector is one of the economic development priorities. The Government will define and
implement a medium to long term strategy which will accompany the liberalization of the transport
sector, especially air transport, and encourage private investment. Public investment in this sector
will be directly associated with rural development and poverty reduction objectives. Its execution
and management will be shared with decentralized entities, local communities, and the private
sector.
23.   Rural development and food security hinge on the development of road infrastructure and
storage facilities. The Government will articulate a road transport investment program whose main
objective will be to improve all-season road access of as many Chadians as possible to health and
education services, markets for agricultural and other essential products, and food security. The
Government will implement incentives for private investment in transports, storage and marketing
infrastructure and equipment.
24.   The cost of energy is high. The cost of electricity is among the highest in the world,
because of the high cost of imported fuel, and unsatisfactory management and marketing systems.
The Government is currently finalizing negotiations to privatize the management of STEE, with a
view to reducing production costs and improve technical performance. A more sustainable
reduction in production costs may be possible if the Sedigui petroleum project is realized.
25.   Urban development must contend with a rate of urbanization projected to increase from
21.5% in 1993 to 34% by year 2010. The Government will: (i) foster community participation in
the design and financing of activities; (ii) favor investment in key regional centers; (iii) focus on
road infrastructure, water supply and sanitation; (iv) extend basic social services to poor
neighborhoods; and (v) strengthen the capacity of municipalities to collect revenue et user fees.
26.   Priorities for the urban habitat include (i) finalizing the urban master plan for N'Djamena,
(ii) developing sites and services in certain neighborhoods of the capital city, and (iii) articulating a
national habitat policy and a strategy for the development of municipalities.
27.   The Government is aware of the impact of the development of petroleum resources on the
human and natural environment in the Doba region. An environmental impact study initiated in
1993 was made public on October 24, 1997, and was disseminated through a broad public
information campaign. The petroleum consortium drafted an environmental mitigation plan, which
was reviewed and completed by an external panel of independent experts, by the Government, and
by IDA. The Government will request IDA financing of technical assistance to manage the impact
of the petroleum project on the local population.
4.    The Changing Role of the State and Private Sector Development
28.    Since 1994, the Government has implemented a policy aimed at liberalizing the economy
by reducing the role of the State, and promoting the private sector. This policy has yielded
promising results, but many obstacles still remain. The private sector in Chad is not yet able to
fully play its role. An ongoing debate on the limitations and roles of the State in the area of
economic and social development is taking into account the experience of other countries, the
evolving world economy, and Chad's own experience. The Government's strategy is to transfer



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 70
certain State functions to local communities and the private sector, while strengthening its capacity
to deliver core State functions.
29.    The role of the State will focus on: (i) administration of security, justice and other
sovereignty attributes; (ii) implementation of appropriate economic policies and of a stable
macroeconomic situation, with a view to maintaining an economic environment conducive to
development; and (iii) investment in education, health, basic infrastructure, rural development, and
environmental protection. The Government is determined to encourage the private sector to take
more  responsibilities  for  the  delivery  of  traditionally  public  services,  especially
telecommunications, water, electricity and transports. In the areas where the State will continue to
act, it will compete with the private sector and will be subject to oversight by taxpayers.
30.    Chad's institutional framework has evolved in recent years. The Government has the
objective of transparency and sound governance, and has organized a constitutional referendum,
the first democratic presidential elections, and legislative elections, which led in March 1997 to the
establishment of pluralist political institutions. The Government is convinced that these institutions
are the best guarantor of external credibility and for winning the confidence of domestic partners.
It will pursue this approach by implementing other institutions foreseen by the Constitution,
especially the Auditor General's Office in the Supreme Court, the Senate, and decentralized
institutions.
31.   National capacity building is central to Chad's development effort. Capacity is lacking in
almost all areas.  The Authorities have decided to devote more resources and attention to
institutional reform and human resource development. They have reoriented public expenditure to
increase expenditure for education and health, restructured ongoing projects, and prepared new
capacity building operations. A National Secretariat for Capacity Building (SENAREC) was
created in May 1997, and is currently preparing a national business plan for capacity building
which could benefit from the African Capacity Building Initiative.
32.    The Government is convinced that the private sector remains the engine of economic
growth. To foster competitiveness, it has lifted controls on prices and commercial margins, with
the exception of essential generic drugs, petroleum products, water, and electricity. The parliament
has adopted a new Labor Code which gives social partners the right to set minimum wages, and
encourages them to improve consultations in sectors and enterprises. The Government will
improve the availability of economic information and will facilitate the access of local firms to
public procurement. It will also extend tax incentives to encourage employment creation and
exports, as well as provision of technical training by enterprises, albeit without jeopardizing fiscal
objectives. Together with employers, it will simplify the procedures for creating new enterprises,
and will review the Investment Code with a view to hannonizing it with regional agreements. It
will strengthen the judiciary, in order to improve the settlement of commercial disputes. The
Parliament will examine a new Social Security Code in I1999.
33.   Investment in the petroleum sector, even though consisting mostly of imported equipment,
is expected to bolster private activity. The Governrment will take advantage of petroleum
development to accelerate and strengthen its strategy of private sector development. In particular,
it will seek to suppress hindrances generated by legal and administrative bottlenecks, and by
structural dysfunctions.  The latter concerns mainly factor costs other than labor (power,
telecommunications, industrial plant, credit, transports, storage), which are higher in Chad than in
most African countries. This makes private investment less profitable or too risky, and requires
high capitalization, often beyond the reach of Chadian business. The S6digui petroleum project
and the liberalization of telecommunications should help lower tariffs in these sectors. The



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 71
upgrading of the road network and transport sector reform should help lower transports costs.
Additional efforts will be needed to improve access to land, industrial buildings, and bank credit.
34.   Private sector development is hindered by the inadequate skills of national entrepreneurs
and difficult access to economic, financial, legal and technical information. The Government
intends to support the Chamber of Commerce and Industry under the National Business Plan for
Capacity Building. Together with other employers' or professional associations, this Chamber
could also seek external support to train entrepreneurs, especially in management in marketing.
5.    Development of Petroleum Resources
35.   On November 22, 1996, Chad completed negotiations with a consortium grouping Exxon,
Shell and Elf, and signed an agreement on the financial, legal and operational framework for
developing petroleum resources. This agreement concerns two projects:
*  Development of the Sedigui field North of Lake Chad and construction of a pipeline to link it
to a small-scale refinery in N'Djamena. The production of this field, relatively modest but of
high quality crude will meet domestic demand, especially for electricity generation. This
would save foreign exchange now used to import petroleum products, and would allow
lowering significantly power tariffs;
*  Development of the Doba fields in the South of Chad, about 485 km from N'Djamena. This
project will develop three petroleumn fields with recoverable reserves estimated at 900 million
barrels. It will require drilling about 300 oil wells. Their production would be exported
through a 1,100 km pipeline ending at a marine terminal in Kribi, on Cameroon's coastline.
The project will cost about three billion dollars, half of which invested in Chad.
36.   The development of petroleum  resources will drastically alter Chad's economic
environment, and entails both opportunities, and risks. Chad could count on additional revenue and
potential economic benefits consisting on new markets for goods and services, and employment
creation. Petroleum revenue is projected at about 2.5 billion dollars between 2000-2025 (in current
prices), i.e., about 100 million dollars a year on the average. These relatively conservative
projections would increase government revenue by about one third. Petroleum activities are
therefore an exceptional opportunity to attain a viable fiscal situation and underpin sustainable
development. At the same time, as demonstrated by international experience, it will be difficult to
contain inflation, preserve the international competitiveness of non-oil activities, especially rural,
and deploy oil revenue efficiently.
37.   The Government intends to seize the opportunity provided by the development of
petroleum resources, and is aware of the risks and difficulties involved. The following chapters
will review measures to use efficiently oil revenue to reduce poverty, and to mitigate the risks
associated with petroleum development.
H.    GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR MANAGING THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY
38.   Poverty reduction is the Government's key objective for the management of the petroleum
economy in general, and of petroleum revenue in particular. This objective meets the needs of the
vast majority of population, and will allow building consensus and containing excessive
expectations. The Government has retained five fundamental principles for the management of the
petroleum economy: (i) priority utilization of oil revenue to reduce poverty; (ii) prudence and
protection of the interests of future generations; (iii) participatory policy formulation and



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 72
implementation of actions; (iv) transparent, efficient and rigorous uutilization of oil revenue; and
(v) regional balance.
1.    International Experience
39.    The Government intends to draw on international experience in managing the petroleum
economy. This experience demonstrates the importance of strict discipline in managing public
revenue and expenditure.  All petroleum  economies face structural difficulties in this area.
Petroleum revenue is often the object of excessive claims by diverse groups of interests, leading to
unsustainable pressure and tension. This is particularly true when development strategies are
lacking, economic management capacities are weak, and transparency and control mechanisms are
insufficient. No matter how legitimate these claims may be taken individually, collectively they
may exceed available resources. Pressure to over-spend imay lead to macroeconomic imbalances
and affect the competitiveness of non-oil activities, sidetrack priority uses of revenue, and foster
poor management and waste of resources. Countries that have enjoyed petroleum income often
have an economic and development performance inferior to countries lacking oil or mineral
resources, to the point where one talks about a "resource curse" or a "poisoned gift".
40.    The positive results achieved by some countries can be traced to their determination and
capacity to implement appropriate macroeconomic and revenue management policies: current
expenditure consistent with long term revenue trends, rathier than short term income; saving of the
surplus; arbitration between domestic and external investment on the basis of real returns.
Successful countries demonstrate the steady commitment of political institutions, sound public
management within a transparent democratic system, a public expenditure policy favoring
education, health, and basic infrastructure, a saving policy protecting the interests of future
generations, strict and cautious macroeconomic policies.
41.    The Government will take into account this experience in implementing adequate
mechanisms to avoid over-spending and low-return investrnent. In particular, it will:
*  establish a direct link between revenue and econornic and social development objectives.
Given the key objective of poverty reduction, petroleum revenue will finance in priority
essential expenditure in education, health, rural development, and basic infrastructure;
*  insulate petroleum  revenue from pressure to use it, for lower priority (or even wasteful)
expenditure, ensure efficiency, and save surpluses for future generations; and
*  oversee and control closely the objectives for efficient utilization of oil revenue.
2.     Priority Utilization of Petroleum Revenue for Poverty Reduction
42.    The Government is determined to use incremental oil revenue to finance sustainable
development, and more specifically activities directly linked to poverty reduction. To avoid using
petroleum revenue to finance past or current public deficits, the Government will accelerate and
broaden measures to improve public financial management, and will pursue and complete the
ongoing structural reform agenda.
43.    Upon reviewing the experience of other petroleum or mineral exporters, the Government
has retained the following policy for oil revenue management:
* Public financial management will be consolidated and strengthened. The Government will
reduce, or even eliminate, the structural budget deficit. The Finance Law will consolidate the



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 73
current and capital budgets (including externally financed expenditure), and will replace
investment projects with sector expenditure programs, where possible, and as soon as possible.
The Government will strengthen budget procedures and the control of public expenditure.
*  Petroleum  revenue will be utilized within a budget consistent with the macroeconomic
framework, with a view to avoiding distortions associated with the appreciation of the effective
exchange rate.
*  Chad will neither mortgage nor seek advance payments on future petroleum revenues. In
consultation with external partners, the Government may seek an exception to this rule in order
to address unexpected and serious events, or to finance development actions presenting
adequate guarantees on returns and social or economic importance. Such exceptions should
respect the principle of annual budgeting. The Policy Framework Paper stipulates that the
Government could resort to non-concessional borrowing to finance investment directly linked
to development of oil resources.
* The Government will allocate the majority of oil revenue to finance development expenditure,
giving priority to the sectors directly linked to poverty reduction objectives, and taking into
account the objective of efficient utilization of revenues. Oil revenue will be allocated
therefore in priority to financing public health and social services, education, infrastructure,
rural development (agriculture and livestock), environmental protection, and water resources.
*  Oil revenues will finance both investment and recurrent expenditure, within development
programs.
*  The expenditure to be financed by oil revenue will be incremental to projected budget
expenditure in these sectors, before oil exports come on stream. They will therefore be
incremental to the general budget of the fiscal year preceding the first oil revenues.
* The Government will increase fiscal mobilization from other sources and will seek to preserve
development aid to the extent possible.
* The Government will continue the ongoing program under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the IMF, with a view to containing the eventual negative
impact of petroleum sector investment during construction.
* During oil production, the Government will strengthen its macroeconomic management and
forecasting capacities, apply rigorousty economic efficiency criteria, and sterilize eventual
financing surpluses, to avoid macroeconomic slippage.
3.    Prudence and Protection of the Interests of Future Generations
44.   The non-renewable nature of petroleum  resources, world market uncertainties and
fluctuations, and the risks associated with a too rapid consumption of petroleum revenue justify
prudent management of this revenue. The Government has rejected the fallacy of a "petroleum
windfall", and intends to use the additional revenue generated by oil exports according to Chad's
capacity to invest it efficiently. This implies, among others, that the level and composition of
expenditure will be constantly evaluated on the basis of the absorptive capacity of the economy.
The Government will implement an analytical and forecasting capacity before petroleum resources
are developed. Chad must also articulate a long term vision of its development objectives in
general, and poverty reduction objectives in particular, in a participatory process associating all
development partners.
45.   The Government has decided to use the experience of other countries that have developed
natural resources, with a view to mitigating economic and social risks, and realizing expected



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 74
benefits. The commitment of budget revenue generated by oil exports will reflect the absorptive
capacity of the economy, in order to avoid the appreciation of the exchange rate, and preserve the
competitiveness of non-oil activities. The interests of future generations will be protected through
programs for human resources development, and by saving surpluses. These questions will be
further discussed in chapter III.
4.    Participatory Approach
46.   Chad has successfully put in place democratic political institutions. In the same spirit, the
Government intends to prepare and implement its development policy in a participatory and
consensual framework. The Government is firmly determined to adhere strictly to this approach in
managing public resources in general, and oil revenue in particular. It also intends to make use
fully of the constitutional mandate of the National Assembly concerning the adoption of the State
budget, and the control of its execution. If necessary, the Government will provide the Parliament
with the technical competence needed to oversee the approval and execution of the budget. Elected
officials will have access to all the information needed to oversee the correct implementation of the
agreed management principles, and will be associated to the decisions on the utilization of
petroleum  revenues.  The Govemment will render public all the documents concerning
development policies, business cycle management, and management of revenues.  It is its
conviction that transparency is the best way to guarantee the support of all Chadians for sound
development policies, and their participation in the implementation of these policies.
47.   The Government is determined to implement participatory mechanisms concerning the
articulation of development policies, decisions on the allocation of public resources, and execution
of public expenditures. These mechanisms will apply to the: (i) definition of strategies in the
priority sectors for poverty alleviation; (ii) adoption of public expenditure programs and
government budgets; (iii) civil service reform; and (iv) implementation of publicly-financed
projects and programs in partnership between the State, decentralized entities, local communities,
NGOs, the private sector, and external partners.
5.    Transparency
48.   The Government is convinced that consultation and transparency are the best way to
prevent excessive claims and populist initiatives that have undermined the situation of other
petroleum exporters. Upon signing the agreement on the Doba project in November 1996, it
initiated an information and communication campaign. A first public information seminar in
December 1996 was followed by exchanges with the civil society, the media and interest groups, as
well by information sessions for the Parliament. The Government has adopted a comprehensive
information and communication program for 1998-2000, with a view to pursuing consultations
with political institutions, the public sector, non-governrental organizations, the private sector,
trade unions and professional associations, the media, local communities, external partners, and
population in general.
49.   In 1997-98, two opinion surveys carried out in N'Djamena, Abdchd and Moundou
provided good indications on the public opinion. The Government's decision to render public the
petroleum dossier has been well received. People interviewed are aware of the potential risks of oil
development and favor transparent management. They perceived the information provided by the
Authorities as an expression of the will to guarantee transparency, and are eager to pursue the
dialogue and participate in policy formulation. The surveys have also revealed that most Chadians
remain skeptical about the expected benefits of petroleum development, essentially because they
lack confidence in national management capacities. Chadians fear that oil revenue will accrue



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 75
primarily to privileged groups, or to foreigners.  Most of them  favor transparent revenue
management overseen by democratic institutions. According to these surveys, the support of the
Chadian population to the program for the management of the oil economy hinges on the
implementation of mechanisms to manage oil revenues fairly, efficiently and transparently, and on
a credible program of capacity building for economic management.
6.    Regional Balance
50.   The Government reaffirms its commitment to balanced regional development, and will
pursue by decentralizing resources and State responsibilities for development. The Law on oil
revenue management, adopted by the National Assembly on December 30, 1998, stipulates that
five percent of petroleum royalties will be allocated to decentralized entities in the producing
region, according to the provisions of article 212 of the Constitution.  A  draft law on
decentralization is under preparation.
51.   The Government will put in place a system to monitor regularly poverty indicators at
national, regional and local level, and by social categories. This statistical information and
household surveys will allow adapting expenditure programs in the priority sectors to country
realities, and will help address regional and social disparities. In the same spirit, the Government
will monitor the impact of public expenditure in the priority sectors.
IHI.  MANAGEMENT OF PETROLEUM REVENUE
52.    The Government will implement an oil revenue management program by the fiscal year
preceding the arrival of oil revenues, according to the following basic principles: (i) priority
allocation of oil revenues for poverty reduction; (ii) efficient and transparent management of these
revenues; (iii) macroeconomic and budgetary discipline, and protection of the competitiveness of
non-oil activities; (iv) protection of the interests of future generations; and (v) association of
political institutions and the civil society to decisions on oil revenue utilization. This chapter
incorporates the provisions of the Law on oil revenue management, approved by the National
Assembly on December 30, 1998.
1.    Mobilization and Uses
53.   The Government intends to implement a rigorous and transparent accounting system in the
petroleum sector. National staff in charge of managing relations with the petroleum consortium is
already being trained. The Government has decided to include in the general budget all direct and
indirect revenues generated by oil exports (royalties, direct and indirect taxes, dividends, and
eventual payments in kind), both from the Doba project, and from other petroleum development
projects. Budget forecasts and execution will take into account production, operating costs and
marketing terms. They will cover not only production per se, but also upstream activities
(exploration, development), downstream activities (transportation, refining, marketing), sub-
contracting (for both investment and operation), and revenue derived from financial investments or
the liquidation of these investments. The Authorities have requested the support of the World
Bank in strengthening their capacity to manage the petroleum sector.
54.   The overall utilization of oil revenues will take into account the effective absorptive
capacity of the economy. Excessively rapid absorption could put pressure on the prices for non-
tradable goods and services, relative to the prices for tradable goods. This would have a negative
impact on the competitiveness of non-oil economic activities, especially rural. The Government
intends to strengthen its capacity for economic analysis, management of the business cycle, and



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 76
forecasting, with a view to preventing and mitigating the economic and social costs associated with
this risk. It is also determined to avoid injecting excessive amounts of financial resources into the
economy, and develop new sources of budget revenue that would complement, or later substitute
for, petroleum revenue.
55.    As a non-renewable resource, petroleum exploitation is equivalent to capital depletion. Oil
revenue will therefore be allocated primarily to replenish investment in a broad sense, with a view
to underpinning Chad's sustainable and equitable development. The Government will favor two
uses of oil revenues: (i) public expenditure programs in the priority sectors (education, public
health, rural development, environment, water resources, and basic infrastructure); and (ii)
incentives to the private sector, to promote investment and generate employment.
56.    A Poverty Reduction Strategy, under preparation with the civil society and Chad's
partners, will articulate specific policy options and will determine resources to be allocated to the
priority sectors. The implementation of this strategy will be underpinned by a system of poverty
indicators, and by the assessment of the impact of public expenditure programs on poverty
reduction. Private sector promotion will be systematically examined in all the priority sectors, with
a view to identifying actions and measures to increase private investment and the participation of
enterprises to the execution of public expenditure, and to technical training activities.
57.    The Government has retained the following sector orientations, which are being discussed
with the development partners:
*  in the education sector, oil revenue will improve the access to basic education, will help close
the gap in the education of female population, and adapt the education system to the real needs
of the economy;
*  in the health sector, the use of incremental revenue will focus on preventive and basic health
care, and include better access to safe water;
*  rural development will encourage private investment to introduce more efficient agricultural
methods and modern inputs, and strengthen food security and the functioning of financial
mechanisms, including rural micro-credit;
* environmental protection concerns primarily the mana,gement of water resources, and the fight
against desertification;
*  development of basic infrastructure using the new resources will be directly linked to the
objectives in the education, health and rural development sectors.
2.     Flow of Funds and Allocation
58.    The Government has decided to place 90% of the royalties and dividends to be paid by the
petroleum companies in dedicated special accounts located in one or two local commercial banks,
with a view to pursuing the poverty reduction objective and protecting the interests of future
generations. The balance of 10% will be placed in a savings fund for the benefit of future
generations, for a period of about 25 years. The fund will be located in an international financial
institution, subject to the regulations of the Bank of the Central Africa States (BEAC). Taxes and
duties, which represent ordinary State revenue, will be paid directly into the accounts of the public
Treasury.
59.    The Government intends to select the commercial bank(s) which will manage the dedicated
special accounts according to strict criteria, in order lto protect the interests of the Chad's



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project   Page 77
population.  These banks must be sound and in a satisfactory financial condition.  Their
certification by COBAC must be particularly strict. Since publicly-owned banks are to be
privatized, the selected banks will be in principle private institutions. Their principal shareholders
must offer satisfactory experience and reputation guarantees. The flow of resources from the
escrow accounts to the selected commercial banks will be carried out in a prudent manner, to avoid
an excess increase in credit, which could undermine the health of the financial sector, and
accelerate inflation.
60.    The royalties and dividends placed in the dedicated special accounts will be allocated as
follows: (i) 80% will be allocated to finance expenditures in the priority poverty reduction sectors;
(ii) 15% will be allocated to finance investment and recurrent State expenditure during the first five
years of petroleum production. After this period, this amount will be allocated to the priority
sectors; and (iii) 5% of royalties will be allocated to local entities in the producing region,
according to the provisions of the article 212 of the Constitution, and will be used to finance
development activities. The modalities for the allocation, management, and control of the funds
allocated to local entities in the producing region will be determined by implementation decrees of
the Law on the management of oil revenue. The use of these funds will be strictly overseen and
controlled in a transparent fashion, following the example of the general rules for the management
and control of oil revenues.
61.    The saving account for the benefit of future generations will be managed according to strict
prudential rules and its future commitment will take place in the priority sectors. The taxes and
duties generated by petroleum activities will be allocated to the general budget with a view to
increasing development expenditures in the broad sense.
62.    The expenditures to be financed by petroleum revenues in the priority sectors will be
incremental to the expenditures projected by the Government for these sectors taken as a whole,
prior to oil exports coming on stream. They will therefore be additional to the general budget of
the fiscal year preceding the first oil revenues, and will not substitute for other government
revenues in financing development expenditures.
63.    The Government is concerned with the sustainability of public investment. It intends to
use oil revenue to finance both investment expenditures, and recurrent costs, in the framework of
development programs.
3.     Disbursement and Saving
64.    The oil revenue allocated to the priority sectors will be disbursed from the special accounts
according to the principle of preserving the integrity of the State budget. These disbursements will
be carried out under a consolidated budget aggregating recurrent and investment expenditures,
irrespective of their financing source. This is consistent with the principles of budget integrity and
comprehensiveness, as well as with the measures to improve budget management under the
ongoing structural adjustment program.
65.    The specific allocation of resources from the special accounts to the priority sectors will
take into account the full amount of each sector's expenditures, and the congruence with the
general budget. Sector expenditure programs in the main priority sectors will be implemented
where possible, and as soon as possible, bearing in mind that generalizing this approach may be
difficult and require some time. Disbursement applications lodged by the budget paymaster in the
banks managing the special accounts must: (i) comply with the Finance Law approved by the
Parliament; (ii) be based on specific expenditure programs for revenues allocated to the priority



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 78
sectors; and (iii) receive an ex ante visa from an independent institution - the Petroleum Revenue
Oversight and Control Committee (CCSRP) to be created under the Law on the management of oil
revenue.
66.   The CCSRP will verify the consistency of special accounts commitments with the Finance
Law, and authorize and control disbursements from the special accounts, and the allocation of
funds. The Government will draft operational guidelines for CCSRP as soon as possible, and will
seek to avoid any duplications with the normal roles of the administration and the Parliament. The
CCSRP will have the following composition:
* a Supreme Court judge;
* a member of the National Assembly;
* a senator;
* the National Director of B.E.A.C.;
* the Director of Treasury;
* the Director of Petroleum;
the Director of Planning and Development;
- a democratically-designated representative of local NGOs;
* a trade union representative.
67.   The CCSRP members representing the Parliament, the Supreme Court, NGOs and the trade
unions will be designated and appointed for a three year term, once renewable.
68.   These mechanisms for the allocation and disbursement of oil revenues will be
accompanied by strengthening of the public expenditures selection and evaluation criteria. The
selection of public investments will be based on rigorous normns of economic and financial return,
on an evaluation of execution, management and maintenance national capacities, and on the
prospects for financing recurrent costs and the eventual replacement of the initial investment.
69.   The Government intends to ask Chad's partners for support in implementing the strategy
for the management of the petroleum economy. It intends to carry out annual public expenditure
reviews, and will seek the participation of the World Bank in these reviews. At the same time, it
will mobilize external support to: (i) train national staff and strengthen the institutions in charge of
macroeconomic management and forecasting, public financial management, preparation of sector
strategies, projects and programs in the priority sectors, and evaluation of the results of these
projects and programs; and (ii) closely associate political institutions and the civil society to the
management of oil revenue.
70.   The Government is hopeful that the implementation of these policies and actions will allow
Chad to absorb efficiently all the oil revenues, with the exception of the long term saving account.
The base case retained during the appraisal of the petroleum project projects net annual revenue at
about 50 billion CFA. This amount is not excessive given Chad's immense needs in the priority
sectors. The Government intends to sterilize in savingy accounts or other financial investment
instruments the eventual surpluses generated by more favorable prices for oil exports, or by a lower
than expected pace of absorption of resources in the priority sectors. It will examine the choice of
effective saving instruments with BEAC and other partners.



Project Appralsal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 79
4.    Control and Oversight
71.   The control of the mobilization and utilization of oil revenue will be exercised at several
levels: (i) internal control of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, of spending departments, and
decentralized entities; (ii) oversight and control carried out by legislature, and by the Petroleum
Revenue Oversight and Control Committee; and (iii) ex post control by the State Control and the
Auditor General's Office in the Supreme Court. Capacities in these areas will be strengthened with
IDA support.
72.   The system for controlling the mobilization, the allocation and the use of oil revenue
includes the following:
* Control of the mobilization of financial resources, on the basis of production criteria
(quantities, costs, marketing), and fiscal provisions.
* Internal public expenditure control covering financial management, and justification of
expenditures.   Sector public expenditure programs will ensure consistency between
development objectives and expenditure forecasts in the priority sectors. The Government
intends to monitor the impact of public expenditure on sector and poverty reduction objectives.
* Parliamentary approval of oil revenue allocation and utilization, through approval and
monitoring of the general budget, using information provided by the administration and the
Auditor General's Office, as well as analysis carried out by its own technical office to be
established in the near future;
* The Auditor General's Office in the Supreme Court, to be established as soon as possible under
the provisions of article 133 of the Constitution, will control the legitimacy of expenditures
through: (1) the official certification of revenue accounts (execution of the accounts of past
fiscal years, estimates of the accounts for the current fiscal year, forecast for the following
year); and (ii) the control of legal requirements on the allocation of resources between the
general budget and decentralized entities, as well as of the requirements and rules for the
establishment of reserves, and the placement abroad of excess resources.
e The Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Committee will verify the conformity of
commitments from the special accounts with the Finance Law, and will authorize and control
disbursements from the special accounts according to the specific allocations in the annual
expenditure programs in the priority sectors.
73.   The Law on oil revenue management requires monitoring of the mobilization, allocation
and utilization of oil revenue. This will be done through regular audits and reports submitted to the
Government, and in particular:
* Annual audits of the dedicated special accounts and of the saving account for the benefit of
future generations.
* Quarterly statements for the dedicated special accounts.
* Regular reports on the management of the saving account for future generations, and on the
saving accounts where eventual financing surpluses will be placed.
* Regular reports of the Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Committee.
* COBAC audits and reports on the commercial banks managing the special accounts.
* Annual reports issued by the State Control.



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 80
*  Auditor General's annual audits of the execution of the general budget.
74.   The Government will make public the operating results of the petroleum accounts, with a
view to associating the population to the development of petroleum resources, and the use of oil
revenues. It also intends to share the audits and reports with the Bretton Woods institutions, and to
associate these institutions to annual public expenditure reviews. These reviews will examine: (i)
the macroeconomic framework of public expenditures; (ii) their congruence with overall economic
policies, sector policies, and poverty reduction objectives; (iii) the respect of economic and
financial efficiency criteria; and (iv) the technical and financial sustainability of activities. Their
conclusions will guide the Government in its decisions on the allocation and use of oil revenue.
IV. SUSTAINABILITY OF POLICIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT
1.    Strengthening National Capacities
75.   During the transition to the petroleum economy, the Government intends implementing the
institutions, skills, technical means, and the information, ianalysis, incentives and control systems
which could allow Chad to use efficiently oil revenue and rnanage their impact on the economy and
public finances. The Authorities are currently reviewing thie roles of the state, the organization and
management of public administration, including decentralized entities, and the civil service
statutes. They have also initiated the preparation of a Petroleum Economy Management Project
(GEEP), and intend to seek IDA financing for it. This project will build on the achievements of the
ongoing project supporting economic management capacities (under IDA financing) and will be
part of the national business plan for capacity building, led by SENAREC.
76.   The objective of GEEP is to support the Government's policy on the efficient and
transparent use of oil revenue to reduce poverty. This objective will be pursued by strengthening
Chad's macroeconomic management and forecasting capaLcity, and public financial management,
and by promoting increased transparency in public management. The main activities of GEEP
include:
e  participatory articulation of a Strategy for Poverty Recluction, and implementation of a system
to monitor poverty indicators, and the impact of public expenditures in the priority sectors for
poverty reduction;
*  implementation of a national capacity for macroeconomic analysis and forecasting;
*  integration of sector expenditure programs in the general budget and in a medium term public
expenditure framework, as well as integration of the current and capital budgets, and of budget
flow of funds;
* modernization of the services of the Ministry of Finance and Economy (budget, treasury, taxes,
customs, public debt, financial control), and implementation of an integrated public financial
management system;
*  support to the institutions which will exercise control functions under the Law for oil revenue
management (CCSRP, Auditor General's Office, State Control, Parliament), and for an
informnation and consultation campaign aiming to associate the civil society to the formulation
of development policies.
77.   Urgent training in petroleum sector operational activities started in January 1998, with
special emphasis on developing national skills in: (i) petroleum taxation; (ii) financial analysis and
Anglo-Saxon accounting methods (used by the consortium); (iii) energy and petroleum market



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 81
economics; and (iv) technical controls of production. The Ministry of Mines, Energy and
Petroleum is currently preparing a capacity building operation, for which the Government will seek
IDA financing.
2     Risk Management
78.   The Govemment is aware of the economic and social risks. They include overestimation
of resources and unforeseen fluctuations; uncertainties on the world capital markets; environmental
degradation; social impact; impact on the competitiveness of economic activities; overestimation of
the absorptive capacity, and waste of resources.
79.   Given uncertainties about oil world market prices and production levels, the Government
intends to be prudent in committing oil revenue. Public expenditure programs will be based on
conservative assumptions about export prices, pace of production, and efficient absorptive
capacity. The Government will also examine the scope for investing eventual surpluses.
80.   This document will not discuss environmental risks. However, it is worth noting that the
Government has: (i) adopted a mitigation plan using preparatory work carried out by the petroleum
consortium, its own experts, independent experts, and the World Bank; (ii) will control the
implementation of the environmental impact mitigation plan by the consortium; (iii) prepared an
environmental capacity building operation under IDA financing; and (iv) initiated a national
information and consultation campaign.
81.   The Government intends to address the risk of the falling competitiveness of non-oil
activities, common in countries that have developed rapidly oil exports. This risk could materialize
in Chad during construction, and would increase during the production phase. It could affect
traditional rural activities such as livestock, cotton, or sugar, hinder industrial development, and
accelerate inflation:
*  The cotton and sugar sectors are among the most vulnerable. Oil will be produced in the cotton
region, and there is a real risk that farmers could leave their fields in the hope of finding
employment in the oil sector. The same could happen in the sugar sector. The Government
will pursue and expand the ongoing strategy of liberalizing and diversifying production, with a
view to increasing farmers' productivity and incomes, and mitigating these risks.
*  Financial administration will be strengthened in order to contain the inflationary impact during
construction and exploitation. The Government intends to adopt a medium term action plan to
strengthen the production of national statistics and its capacity for economic analysis and
forecasting, within the global program of capacity building.
* The Government will follow closely the impact on poverty. The recent household survey of
consumption, incomes, and informal activities (ECOSIT) will be followed as soon as possible
by a system of permanent monitoring of poverty indicators. This will allow measuring the
impact of economic and investment policies, and regional disparity. The Government will thus
be able to monitor the implementation of its Poverty Reduction Strategy, and review it as
necessary.
82.    The overestimation of absorptive capacities can lead to the waste of the resources
generated during the production phase. The Government has decided to accelerate the articulation
of sector strategies, the administrative and civil service reform, the capacity building program, and
the program to improve the management of public expenditures. It also intends to share with
decentralized entities and the private sector the responsibility of managing the expenditure



Project Appraisal Document: Chad - Management of the Petroleum Economy Project  Page 82
programs financed by oil revenue. The following measures have already been taken, or will be
taken before the arrival of oil revenue:
*  The presentation in 1997 of a budget grouping current. and capital expenditure according to an
improved nomenclature, to increase transparency.  This process will continue with the
implementation of a consolidated budget based on sector expenditure programs, especially in
the priority sectors. Budget procedures will be strengthened.
*  Civil service reform. A National Commission for Civil Service Reform has been at work since
1997, and submitted its initial recommendations in 1998. The Government intends to: (i)
replace automatic seniority promotions with merit promotions; (ii) draft by mid-1999 revised
statutes of the civil service, with a view to improve the match between profiles and positions,
improve job stability (which would enhance return on investment in human capital), ensure the
neutrality of civil servants, and protect them against pressure and arbitrary decisions; and (iii)
improve career management and planning, on the basis of an integrated computerized roll,
starting in fiscal year 2000.
*  Taxation of public procurement. This measure, introduced in September 1997, seeks to fully
cost public expenditure, eliminate distortions in the economic and financial analysis of
investment projects and other public expenditure, and curtail fiscal evasion.
e  Starting in fiscal year 2000, implementation of Settlement Laws which would allow the
National Assembly to control the budget executicin and subsequently verify the correct
application of the provisions governing oil revenue management.
e  Reorganization of the Budget department. The objectives are to (i) improve budget preparation
and monitoring, (ii) implement uniform and reliable procedures to control and monitor
commitments, and (iii) implement additional procedures to monitor payment orders,
liquidations, and payments. The Government will accelerate computerization and training,
with a view to completing the reorganization and having a fully operational system in place by
fiscal year 2000.
3.     Managing the Transition to the Petroleum Econlomy
83.   The High Interministerial Committee (HCI) in charge of the implementation of the
adjustment program will also monitor the strategy for the management of the petroleum economy.
The Council of Ministers will retain responsibility in coordinating the management strategy, in
close cooperation with the National Assembly.
84.   The HCI has adopted a work program for the 1I998-2001 period. This program contains
policy formulation actions, technical measures, an information and consultation campaign, and
capacity building activities. The HCI will issue annual reports which will be reviewed by the
Council of Ministers. These reports will be transmitted to the Parliament and to the World Bank.
This would allow validating or reviewing the strategy. The Government intends to consult the
World Bank on eventual changes.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25339R
The boundories, colors.
'deommations and any
other informaton sho-n
on this map  do  not
imply, on 'he part of
IBYA            The World Bank Group,
LIBYA            any ILdgment on the legal
status of  ny terrt,ray,
or any endorsement
i                                                                                         o ar acceptance of such
CHAD                                                                                                                    bo
TCHAD                            ;
_____ Main Roads                              /
Routes Primaires                     .r
Secondary Roads
Routes Secondaires
u      Rivers
Rivieres
|      Prefecture Boundories
Limites des prefectures            |
International Boundaries
Frontieres Internationale
nKiO.ETERSo    50   112   150  200   2sc                                               S'-'                    -i       T!
I    I I                I        f     /\
MILES S       1        00       150
1     g               V/45i12._-                            ;                              LT>I N                I rba,
'   -   0Nesou                        ;                                          C Biltime      . -
~~~~01 E~~~~~",Ms                                             
Abeche~
Lche                                                                                                     D  A                 $SUDAN
I.           ~'<                        >        oM.sakorik_           _:
>\>  /\    ' 7~ -!-, .  > <<oro  r-   /~~-;  /7  0Goa-Beida   ;
'   A3Li rjj; /t)    , xs s       ~~Mongof 6     . ., 
ER,, S "                 !        N', ENA                      V        ,Blkn         ! /          ~        X.  
f   ,s   ./ Dje    brene '
-a-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~'
/   P9o,,    ,    \9vSs             i   f .~~~~~~~--- --- ----          ,"Arn-Timarn\
I N IJ LE ~          ~             ~             HTAIA~CA
|PAR O               Baio  aanl C; h2   , 1                i     . 
(r                                                                                                        20        b%
D                                                     C -'   \  7   tEN' ,TRK4 A-99A5N
/                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~             ~~~~~~~~~1 5 3,       r
FEBRUARY 1995



