Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3316 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Management of the Petroleum Economy Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 20, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3316 CD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  March 20, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). WHEREAS (A)
the Borrower, 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;  
(B)
the Association has received a letter (the “Strategy for the Management 
of the Petroleum Economy”), dated July 7, 1999, from the Borrower, describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to define the role of the 
Borrower in the management of petroleum revenue (hereinafter called the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(C) 
by an agreement (the Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), the 
Borrower intends to contract from the Bank a loan in an amount of about thirty-five 
million dollars ($35,000,000) to assist in financing parts of the Petroleum 
Development and Pipeline Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided, 
in support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“CE” means the Cellule Economique at the MEPDC (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“CESRAP” means the Cellule chargée de la mise en oeuvre de la réforme de 
l’administration publique, the advisory group for civil service reform supervised by 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Civil Service; 
(c)
“CFA Franc” or “CFAF” means Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique 
Centrale, the currency of the Borrower; 
(d)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(e)
“MEPDC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development 
and Cooperation; 
(f)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
(g)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual containing 
administrative, financial, accounting, disbursement and procurement arrangements, work 
plans, training plans, and procedures to be used for the purposes of implementation of 
the Project;
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on November 3, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
November 9, 1999; 
(j)
“SENAREC” means the Borrower’s National Secretariat for Capacity 
Building; and 
(k)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Page  3
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and B respectively of the 
Project, open and maintain in CFA Francs two separate special deposit accounts in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 
commencing February 1, 2010 and ending August 1, 2039. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and   
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Petroleum Revenue Management 
Program as set out in a Schedule to the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05
Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Page  5
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain for the duration of the Project an account 
in CFA Francs (the Project Account) in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF 
60,000,000; 
(c)
thereafter, replenish said account up to an amount equal to CFAF 
60,000,000 quarterly, or whenever its balance shall be less than CFAF 45,000,000; and 
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  6
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar semester a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial system for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited herein; and 
(d)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association the procurement plan for 
the period of eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  7
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economic 
promotion, development and cooperation is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Telex:
Facsimile:
5329KD
(235) 51 51 85
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Ahmat Soubiane Hassaballah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Works 
   225,000
90% of local
expenditures
 (2)
Goods
        2,260,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
 (3)
Consultants’ services
 5,060,000
100% 
and audits
 (4) 
Training
 2,980,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
 (5) 
Operating Costs
 1,055,000
90%
 (6) 
Refunding of Project 
   510,000
Amount due pursuant 
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement
 (7)
Unallocated
  510,000
TOTAL
      12,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means costs, including incremental operating 
costs, incurred on account of project implementation, management and supervision, as 
well as financing of CE, including office supplies, communication costs, financing of 
vehicle acquisition, operation and maintenance, banking charges on the Special 
Accounts, and travel allowance of Project staff, but excluding salaries of the 
Borrower’s civil servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, works and 
consultants’ services (firms) under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (b) consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (c) training and all operating costs, all under such 
Page  9
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project  
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in building capacity to 
implement its petroleum revenue management strategy to enable it to effectively absorb 
and allocate expected oil revenue, and thus pursue the poverty-reduction objective of 
petroleum resources development. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Public Financial Management 
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity for public financial management and, in 
particular, to prepare and present its yearly consolidated budget, manage its 
budgetary expenditures, manage its Treasury and public accounting, carry out internal 
controls and audits, carry out revenue mobilization and develop a financial management 
system, including the rehabilitation of the Customs School.
Part B:
Poverty Reduction Strategy, Human Resources Development, Oversight and 
Control, and 
Monitoring of Economic Reform 
1.
Carrying out the production and maintenance of a poverty database and reporting 
system, and participatory articulation of a strategy for poverty reduction, including 
the rehabilitation of the Statistics Department building; 
2.
(a) 
carrying out a baseline institutional assessment, including the updating 
of the civil service statutes, and the reconciliation of payroll and civil service 
database; and  
(b) 
carrying out the implementation of an institutional and staff reform 
(organization, job profiles, training, recruitment, incentive system and 
accountability) program in MOF and MEPDC, and in the Strategic Planning and 
Expenditure Management units of the Ministries of Education, Health, Rural Development 
and Public Works, within the overall strategy for civil service reform, all through 
the provision of technical advisory services; 
3.
strengthening the operational capacities of the Oversight and Control Committee 
for the Management of Petroleum Revenue and the Auditor’s General Office to carry out 
their respective responsibilities, and carrying out of an 
Information-Education-Communication (IEC) campaign aimed at civil society; and
4.
strengthening the operational capacity of CE to monitor the economic reform 
program and the national capacity building program, through carrying out technical 
advisory services and a training program. * * * The Project is expected to be 
completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  10
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
Page  11
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for introducing reforms of the financial 
management system and for oversight and control under Part A and Part B of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits and other services of standard nature under Part A and Part 
B of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A and Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for consultants and temporary staff under Part A and Part B of the 
Project which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Page  12
Services under Part A and Part B of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out Part A of the Project through MOF and Part B of the Project 
through CE;  
(b)
through SENAREC and the assistance of CESRAP, implement the oversight and 
control of Parts B.2 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, and coordinate with their 
respective beneficiaries the implementation of specific human resources development 
activities in MOF, MEPDC and the strategic units of the ministries of Education, 
Health, Rural Development and Public Works; and
(c)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) apply criteria, 
policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Implementation Manual; and (ii) not 
amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Implementation Manual or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
Semi-Annual Review:
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, a 
comprehensive semi-annual project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting 
progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project as of the date of the review, and ensuring responsiveness to changes to 
effectively achieve the objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the 
Page  13
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, within 18 months from the Effective Date, a  mid-term 
evaluation report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project, including any reallocation of funds of the project, in order to ensure the 
achievement of its objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, within 18 months from the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of CFAF 300,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount of CFAF 
300,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 150,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 150,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 3,000,000.  
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  14
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account for Parts A and B of the Project, minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A 
and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and 
B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
Page  15
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
Part A of the Project
Completion Date
1.  Modernization and harmonization of budget and accounting nomenclatures, updating 
of the economic and functional classification of expenditures, and extension of this 
classification to investment operations
2.  Execution of the Borrower’s consolidated budget on the basis of the new budget 
nomenclature, and of a macroeconomic and public finance framework
3.  Adoption of an action plan concerning the transition from the public investment 
program (PIP) to sector expenditure programs (SEP) with a view to integrating the SEP 
in the 2002 consolidated budget on a pilot basis
4.  Implementation of a streamlined and simplified budget expenditure system, and 
implementation of improved procedures for the internal control of expenditures
5.  Submission to the Auditor General (Chambre des Comptes) of the final budget 
accounts for the preceding fiscal year before March 31 of each year
6.  Submission of the Settlement Law (Loi de Règlement) to the Parliament before 
December 31 of each year for the preceding fiscal year
7.  Implementation of an improved system of public debt management, including 
installation and validation of the database and training of users
8.  Annual review of public expenditures
Part B of the Project
Completion Date
9.  Validation of two household survey reports (including production of a 
CD-ROM)December 31, 2001 December 31, 2004
10. Preparation of two reports on the community survey of economic and social services 
(including a CD-ROM database and cartographic treatment)December 31, 2001 December 31, 
2004
11. Adoption by the Borrower of an interim National Participatory Strategy for Poverty 
Reduction
Page  16
12. Adoption by the Borrower of a National Participatory Strategy for Poverty 
Reduction
13. Final proposals on the reform of the civil service statutes, including 
implementation decrees
14. Harmonization of the Payroll and Civil Service census
15. Implementation of public administration reform, giving priority to the ministries 
of Finance and Planning, and to pilot administrations in the ministries of Health, 
Education, Rural Development, and Public Works
16. Operational implementation of the General Auditor’s Office (Chambre des Comptes)
17. Operational implementation of the Committee for Control and Oversight of Petroleum 
Resources (CCSRP)
18. Implementation of an information, education and communication program on the 
outcomes of the structural adjustment program and the implementation of the strategy 
for the management of the petroleum economy
19. Submission to the High Interministerial Committee (HCI) of quarterly reports on 
the implementation of the structural adjustment program, and of a monthly summary of 
macroeconomic indicators
20. Transmittal to the Association of quarterly reports on the financial 
implementation of the Project, including the consolidation of Project accounts (with 
the understanding that these reports will be produced on the basis of the new Project 
Management Reports within 18 months from the Effective Date)
