                                                               Report No. 24667



         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  International Development Association



                                                              INSP/R2002-0004




        MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                        IN RESPONSE TO THE

         INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                                 CHAD:

CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                         (LOAN NO. 4558-CD);

 PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
                     (CREDIT NO. 3373-CD); AND

     MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT
                        (CREDIT NO. 3316-CD)




                             August 21, 2002


                 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
  IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT No. 23999
                                           OF THE
   CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                                     (LOAN NO. 4558-CD);
      PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
                                (CREDIT NO. 3373-CD); AND
             MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT
                                    (CREDIT NO. 3316-CD)

Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by the Executive Directors is Man-
agement's Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the Investigation
Report No. 23999, dated July 17, 2002, of the Inspection Panel on the captioned Projects (Inspec-
tion Panel: Request for Inspection: Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project
- Loan No. 4558-CD; Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project - Credit No.
3373-CD; and Management of the Petroleum Economy Project - Credit No. 3316-CD, IPN Re-
quest RQ01/01 of March 22, 2001).


                    MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                                IN RESPONSE TO THE
               INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 23999

                                                               CHAD:

    CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                                                  (LOAN NO. 4558-CD);
      PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
                                           (CREDIT NO. 3373-CD); AND
             MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT
                                                (CREDIT NO. 3316-CD)

                                                            CONTENTS



List of Acronyms and Abbreviations ............................................................................................ vii

List of Operational Policies, Operational Directives, and Operational Policy Notes..................... ix

I.      Introduction ........................................................................................................................ 1

II.     Status of the Projects.......................................................................................................... 2

III.    Findings of the Panel.......................................................................................................... 4

IV.     Issues .................................................................................................................................. 5

        A. Regional Environmental Assessment and Planning ­ A Continuum ............................ 5
        B. Equity and Poverty Reduction....................................................................................... 7
        C. Capacity-Building to Enhance Sustainability and Reduce Risks ................................ 10
        D. Monitoring and Consultation....................................................................................... 13
        E. Governance and Human Rights ................................................................................... 16

V.      Management's Action Plan in Response to the Findings................................................. 17

VI.     Conclusion........................................................................................................................ 20


Tables

Table 1.    Projects Included in the Request for Inspection
Table 2.    Summary of Inspection Panel Findings on Compliance with
            Bank Policies and Procedures
Table 3.    Proposed Management Action Plan

Annex

Annex 1.    Findings, Comments and Actions

Maps

Map 1.      Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (IBRD 31455)
Map 2.      Chad Producing Region ­ Zone Covered by the Regional Development Plan
            (IBRD 30540)




                                                                    v


              LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ASOSRP      Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plan
bbl         Barrel
BP          Bank Procedure
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCSRP       Collège de Contrôle et Surveillance des Ressources Pétrolières (Com-
            mittee for Oversight and Control of Petroleum Resources)
CNPD        Coordination Nationale Projet Doba
CTNSC       Comité Technique National de Suivi et de Contrôle (National Technical
            Committee for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Pipeline Project)
COTCO       Cameroon Oil Transportation Company, S.A.
DHS         Demographic and Health Survey
EA          Environmental Assessment
EAS         Environmental Alignment Sheet
ECMG        External Compliance Monitoring Group
EEPCI       Esso Export and Production Chad, Inc.
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB         European Investment Bank
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EPC         Engineering, Procurement and Construction Companies
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
ESSD        Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
FACIL       Fonds d'Actions Concertées d'Initiatives Locales - Local Initiatives Fund
FCFA        Francs Communauté Financière Africaine
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment
GHG         Greenhouse Gases
GOC         Government of Chad
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syn-
            drome
IAG         International Advisory Group
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IDF         Institutional Development Fund
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IPIECA      International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Associa-
            tion
IPN         Inspection Panel Number
IRR         Internal Rate of Return
MTEF        Medium Term Economic Framework
NGO         Nongovernmental Organization
NOSRP       National Oil Spill Response Plan
NPV         Net Present Value
OD          Operational Directive
OMS         Operational Manual Statement
OP          Operational Policy
OPN         Operational Policy Note
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PER         Public Expenditure Review



                                   vii

PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QACU     Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit
RDP      Regional Development Plan
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
SEA      Strategic Environmental Assessment
SME      Small and Medium Enterprises
STD      Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STEP     Support and Training Entrepreneurial Program
TOTCO    Tchad Oil Transportation Company, S.A.
USD      United States Dollar




                               viii

       LIST OF OPERATIONAL POLICIES, OPERATIONAL DIRECTIVES, AND
           OPERATIONAL POLICY NOTES RELEVANT TO THIS REPORT


OD     4.01     Environmental Assessment, 1991
OP/BP   4.04    Natural Habitats, June 2001/September 1995
OP     4.09     Pest Management, December 1998
OD     4.15     Poverty Reduction, December 1991
OD      4.20    Indigenous Peoples, September 1991
OD      4.30    Involuntary Resettlement, June 1990
OP      4.36    Forestry, September 1993
OP     10.04    Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations, September 1994
OPN    11.03    Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, September
                1986
OP     13.05    Project Supervision, July 2001
BP     17.50    Disclosure of Operational Information, September 1993




                                       ix


                                         I. INTRODUCTION

1.       A Request for Inspection (Request) was submitted to the Inspection Panel (the Panel) on
March 22, 2001 by Mr. Ngarlejy Yorongar, a Member of Parliament in Chad's National Assembly,
who was acting for himself and on behalf of more than 100 residents (the "Requesters") in the vi-
cinity of three fields of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project area (Cantons of Mian-
doum, Komé, Béro, Mbikou, Bébédjia and Béboni, all in the Sub-Prefecture of Bébédjia), Republic
of Chad (Map 1). The Requesters alleged that the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project and its complementary Bank-financed projects, described in Table 1, constituted a
threat to local communities, their cultural property and the environment and that people in the oil
field region (in the Doba Basin area) were being harmed, or were likely to be harmed, because of
the absence, or inadequacy, of environmental assessment and compensation; and that proper con-
sultation with and disclosure of information to the local communities had not taken place. The Re-
quest was registered by the Panel on April 11, 2001 (IPN Request No. RQ01/1).

                     Table 1. Projects Included in the Request for Inspection
      Project                Financed by            Sector     Board Approval       Effectiveness
                                                                     Date                Date
Chad Petroleum       IBRD Loan USD39.5 million     Energy     June 6, 2000        Aug 10, 2001
Development and
Pipeline Project
Petroleum Sector     IDA Credit USD23.7 million    Energy/    June 6, 2000        Mar 23, 2001
Management Ca-       equivalent                    Petroleum
pacity-Building
Project
Management of        IDA Credit USD17.5 million    Public     Jan 27, 2000        Sept 21, 2000
the Petroleum        equivalent                    Financial
Economy Project                                    Mgmt.



2.       The Executive Directors and the President of IBRD/IDA were notified by the Panel of re-
ceipt of the Request. Management responded to the claims in the Request on May 10, 2001, noting
that, in its view, the Bank had complied with its operational policies and procedures in the context
of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project with regard to the environmental, social, cul-
tural, and procedural matters raised in the Request. The Management Response provided evidence
and documentation to demonstrate that the Bank had taken the necessary measures to follow its
operational policies and procedures with respect to the design and appraisal of the Project and was
doing the same to ensure that people in the Project area were not directly and adversely affected as
a result of its implementation. Management therefore believes that the Requesters would not be
adversely affected by the implementation of the Project in the future, since systems are in place to
ensure that their views and concerns are identified and addressed as necessary. As important, the
Bank has put in place extensive monitoring arrangements and supervision activities that should
assist in providing a channel for addressing implementation issues.

3.       In addition, Management addressed issues related to OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction
through its agreements with the Borrower on responsibilities and activities with regard to petro-
leum revenue management and governance in Chad, the purpose of which is to assist Chad to target
the bulk of oil revenues flowing from the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project to expendi-
tures in priority sectors--health and social services; education; infrastructure; rural development;
environment and water resources--all designed to assist in poverty alleviation in Chad.

4.       The Panel in its Report to the Board found the Request eligible and recommended that the
Executive Directors authorize an investigation. The investigation was authorized by the Executive



                                                 1

Chad


Directors on October 1, 2001. On July 17, 2002, the Panel issued its Report outlining the findings
of the investigation. At the outset, Management acknowledges the Panel's extensive and in-depth
analysis of compliance issues associated with the projects under review. This analysis has brought
into focus key issues and provided valuable input for further Bank work on these complex Projects.

5.       This document, responding to the findings of the Panel, is organized in six sections. Sec-
tion II below describes the status of the Projects under review. Section III summarizes the findings
of the Panel. Section IV addresses a selected set of overarching issues:

         ·   Regional Environmental Assessment and Planning ­ A Continuum;

         ·   Equity and Poverty Reduction;

         ·   Capacity-Building to Enhance Sustainability and Reduce Risks;

         ·   Monitoring and Consultation; and

         ·   Governance and Human Rights.

Section V presents the Management's Action Plan in response to the Panel's findings, and Section
VI contains the conclusion. The Panel's findings, along with the Management's responses, are de-
scribed in detail in Annex 1.

                                    II. STATUS OF THE PROJECTS

6.       Chad is one of the world's poorest countries, with an estimated 80 percent of its population
of 7.5 million living on less than one US Dollar a day. The depth and pervasiveness of poverty is
striking, and only a small fraction of the population escapes its consequences: poor nutrition and
health; high child and adult mortality; and limited access to basic amenities, educational opportuni-
ties and social protection. Chad's rugged environment is also a major constraint to development,
and a challenge for sustainable future growth. Making a dent in poverty in the coming years is the
overriding objective for the country and its partners.

7.       Oil development provides a major opportunity for Chad to break free from a poverty trap
characterized by enormous needs and very limited resources, to diversify its economy, and to in-
crease its fiscal revenues. If well-managed, additional revenues from oil can translate into signifi-
cant poverty alleviation through greater availability of resources for priority sectors, improved in-
frastructure and wider delivery of better public and social services. Estimates suggest that incomes
could grow twice as fast, for about a generation, than under a non-oil scenario, leading in all likeli-
hood to a very significant improvement in welfare indicators. The Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) aims to help Chad prepare to make the best development use of its oil resources,
and avoid the pitfalls encountered by many other countries in the exploitation of natural resources.

8.       The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project is the single largest private sector in-
vestment in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is expected to cost about USD3.7 billion, of which about 4 per-
cent are funded by the Bank and IFC. The private sponsors, ExxonMobil of the United States (the
operator, with 40 percent of the private equity), Petronas of Malaysia (35 percent), and Chevron of
the United States (25 percent), which form a consortium (the Consortium), will develop the three
oil fields of Komé, Miandoum, and Bolobo in the region of Doba, southern Chad. The Project will
also comprise the construction of a 1,070 kilometer pipeline from the Doba oil fields to Camer-
oon's Atlantic coast at Kribi, three related pumping stations, ancillary facilities, infrastructure im-
provements, and installation of off-shore oil-loading facilities.


                                                   2

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


9.      The Bank (IBRD/IDA) and IFC were originally approached to participate in the Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project in 1992. The involvement of the Bank and IFC in the Project is
predicated on: (i) the unique opportunity it presents for Chad in particular to generate additional
revenues to combat poverty; and (ii) the need to implement the Project in a socially and environ-
mentally sound manner. It also provides an occasion to play a significant role in reducing poverty
in one of Africa's poorest regions. This approach to the Project has been essential in integrating a
range of relevant challenges into Project preparation, including social and environmental issues,
and governance issues within the mandate of the Bank.

10.     The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project was prepared by the Consortium and the
Governments of Chad and Cameroon, with the assistance of the Bank, IFC and other public and
private lenders, from 1993 to 1999. The Project was appraised by the Bank in late June and early
July 1999 and negotiated by the Bank from February to April 2000. An IBRD loan of USD39.5
million to the Republic of Chad, which will finance part of the equity of the Government of Chad
(GOC) in the Tchad Oil Transportation Company, S.A. (TOTCO) and the Cameroon Oil Transpor-
tation Company, S.A. (COTCO), was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on June 6, 2000.
An IFC A Loan of USD100 million, which mobilized up to USD100 million in commercial bank
lending to fund a portion of the Project costs of the Export System, was approved by IFC's Execu-
tive Directors on June 6, 2000. The European Investment Bank (EIB), like IBRD, provided financ-
ing to the GOC (about USD17 million equivalent) to finance its equity investments in TOTCO.

11.     The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project is accompanied in Chad by two associ-
ated projects: (i) the IDA-financed Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (USD17.5 mil-
lion approved on January 27, 2000), which aims to build Chad's capacity to manage oil revenues
and to use them efficiently for poverty reduction; and (ii) the IDA-financed Petroleum Sector Man-
agement Capacity-Building Project (USD23.7 million approved on June 6, 2000), which aims to
assist the GOC in carrying out its responsibilities, including those under the Petroleum Develop-
ment and Pipeline Project Environmental Management Plan (EMP) prepared in the course of an
extensive Environmental Assessment (EA), and to establish an effective framework for further
sound private sector investment in the petroleum sector.

12.     As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), in Chad the outputs of the Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project are expected to be: (i) substantial fiscal revenues from the export
of crude oil from the three oil fields to be developed (Komé, Miandoum and Bolobo); (ii) the exis-
tence and operation of a Petroleum Revenue Management Program; (iii) the development of the
three oil fields and construction and operation of the export system by a private operator; and (iv)
the environmentally and socially sound development of oil fields and construction and operation of
the pipeline. To achieve these goals, a Petroleum Revenue Management Program was developed in
collaboration with the Bank to target the bulk of oil revenues accruing to Chad from the Project for
incremental poverty alleviation in a transparent manner.

13.     A special purpose company, Esso Export and Production Chad, Inc. (EEPCI), a wholly
owned subsidiary of ExxonMobil, was established to develop the Field System. The Consortium
and the Governments of Chad and Cameroon have established TOTCO and COTCO, two joint-
venture companies to own and operate, respectively, the Chad and Cameroon portions of the Ex-
port System. The GOC also owns a portion of COTCO. EEPCI is the Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project's manager and operator, responsible for overall coordination of the Project, includ-
ing with TOTCO and COTCO, the two Governments, the Bank, IFC, and other lenders.

14.     The Consortium and the Borrowers under the Bank loans share the responsibility for im-
plementing the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project. In Chad, the EMP is being imple-
mented by EEPCI and TOTCO, in collaboration with the GOC. EEPCI and TOTCO have primary


                                                   3

   Chad


   responsibility for ensuring that contractors, workers and work sites comply with 1999 EA/EMP
   provisions. The compensation, resettlement, oil spill contingency and decommissioning plans are
   being implemented by EEPCI and TOTCO in collaboration with the GOC. EEPCI, TOTCO, and
   the GOC also monitor and evaluate the 1999 EA/EMP's implementation in Chad. In addition, the
   GOC is responsible for implementing the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building and
   the Management of the Petroleum Economy Projects with the support of the Bank.

                                          III. FINDINGS OF THE PANEL

   15.      This section summarizes the principal findings of the Panel's Report without reference to
   Management's position. Section IV addresses selected issues related to the Panel's findings, while
   Section V summarizes Management's proposed Action Plan. Annex 1 provides Management's de-
   tailed comments and proposed actions.

                            Table 2. Summary of Inspection Panel Findings on
                              Compliance with Bank Policies and Procedures
 Policy                               Issue                               Inspection Panel Finding*
OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment
             EA process                                        In compliance
             Management of oil spills                          In compliance
             Consultations                                     In compliance
             Contamination of surface/groundwater              In compliance
             Spatial context/Regional EA                       Not in compliance
             Cumulative impacts assessment                     Not in compliance
             Reports of the Expert Advisory Panel              Not in compliance
             Baseline data linkages to impacts and mitigation  Not in compliance
             Consideration of environmental costs and benefits Not in compliance
             of alternatives
             Institutional capacity                            Not in compliance
OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats                                    In compliance
OP 4.36 Forestry                                               In compliance
OP 4.09 Pest Management                                        In compliance
OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement
             Expropriation                                     In compliance
             Mango Tree Grievance Procedure                    In compliance
OD 4.20 Indigenous People                                      Not applicable (for Chad portion of Project)
OPN 11.03 Management of Cultural Property                      In compliance
OP 10.04 Economic Evaluation
             Pipeline Project ­ Risk                           In compliance
             Pipeline Project ­ Externalities                  In compliance
             Pipeline Project ­ Alternatives                   Not in compliance
             Pipeline Project ­ Base Case                      Appropriate and valuable to provide switching
                                                               values
             Pipeline Project ­ Other benefits                 Full compliance required a more detailed exami-
                                                               nation of other benefits
             Petroleum Economy and Capacity-Building Project   Not in compliance
             ­ Sustainability and risks
OD 4.15 Poverty Reduction
             Petroleum Revenue Management Program              Concerns on whether some components of OD
                                                               4.15 on poverty have been fully met
             Hypothecation of oil revenues                     In compliance
             Institutional capabilities and monitoring         Concern about realizing social objectives; con-
                                                               tinuing monitoring vital for Special Accounts
             Allocation of resources to producing region       Concern about review material that underpinned
                                                               choice of 5 percent



                                                        4

                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation



  Policy                             Issue                                   Inspection Panel Finding*
              Implementation delays due to lack of capacity       Concern if delays not addressed urgently, future
                                                                  compliance jeopardized
              Accelerated action needed for capacity-building     Not in compliance
              Possible variations in oil revenue inflows          Not in compliance with provisions concerning risk
                                                                  analysis and institutional design
BP 17.50 Disclosure                                               In compliance
Monitoring and Supervision                                        Expression of satisfaction with strong external
                                                                  project monitoring capacity
Other Issues
              Governance and human rights                         Concern in particular about compliance with
                                                                  Bank policies that relate to informed and open
                                                                  consultation
              Pipeline Project ERR for Chad                       Concern about adequacy of allocation of reve-
                                                                  nues to Chad
   * This column does not refer to Management's response or position on the findings. See Annex 1.



   Management has responded thoroughly to these findings and observations of the Panel in Section
   IV and V and Annex 1.

                                                      IV. ISSUES

   16.      This section analyzes a selected set of key issues highlighted by the Panel in its Report.
   These are:

            ·   Regional Environmental Assessment and Planning ­ A Continuum;

            ·   Equity and Poverty Reduction;

            ·   Capacity-Building to Enhance Sustainability and Reduce Risks;

            ·   Monitoring and Consultation; and

            ·   Governance and Human Rights.

   Management welcomes the opportunity to discuss these issues in greater detail with the Panel in
   order to better explain the measures taken and consider whether there is a need to improve its ac-
   tions and activities during implementation of the Projects.

                  A. Regional Environmental Assessment and Planning ­ A Continuum

   17.      For the purpose of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, Management believes
   the objectives of OD 4.01 can be met through the Regional Development Plan (RDP) required by
   the 1999 EA/EMP for the Project.

   18.      In the context of the spatial analysis in the 1999 EA/EMP itself, a practical approach was
   used to analyze the spatial context of potential impacts. The relevant geographic study areas were
   determined as appropriate to specific topics and concerns, for example, the area concerned by po-
   tential impacts of an oil spill differs from that of demographic changes, such as in-migration. A
   single pre-determined study area in which the full range of impacts was analyzed would have been
   cumbersome and ineffective in accomplishing the purpose of the EA--to improve decision making.
   Annex 1, Comment 2 provides additional information on this point.


                                                           5

Chad



Regional EA and its Role in Regional Planning for the Petroleum Development and Pipeline
Project

19.      Management agreed that instead of a Regional Environmental Assessment (Regional EA)
as such, the Borrower would take an approach that makes sense for this Project by preparing an
RDP. This approach is consistent with the EA Sourcebook Update on this issue (World Bank Envi-
ronmental Assessment Sourcebook Update on Regional EA, June 1996, Number 15). The EA/EMP
was completed between 1997 and 1999. OD 4.01 does not require the use of the tool of Regional
EA. OD 4.01 states, inter alia, that "Regional EAs may [emphasis added] be used where a number
of similar but significant development activities with potentially cumulative impacts are planned
for a reasonably localized area." However, as discussed below, the absence of a formal Regional
EA is largely a semantic issue, because, in the manner in which the Project is proceeding, the ap-
propriate elements of a Regional EA will be part of the RDP.

20.      As background, Management would like to note that a principal purpose of a Regional EA
is to compare alternative development scenarios and recommend environmentally sustainable de-
velopment and land use patterns and policies. Regional EAs are particularly useful when they pre-
cede the first in a series of projects or development interventions in an undeveloped region, where a
region is slated for major developments, where cumulative impacts are anticipated, or in regional
planning or agro-ecological zoning. In fact, as is noted in the Sourcebook Update on Regional EA,
"[l]ittle has been written about regional environmental assessment. However, there is a body of
literature on regional development and environmental planning" (EA Sourcebook Update, No. 15,
p 1).

21.      During the mid to late 1990s, the concept grew of applying Strategic Environmental As-
sessment (SEA, defined as environmental impact assessment applied to policies, plans and pro-
grams). Even more recently, Regional EA has been viewed by some as a form of SEA. In this con-
text, SEA/Regional EA can be used as a tool to analyze the impacts of a planning instrument. In
other words, unlike Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), where a specific investment is fully
mapped and assessed in advance of project implementation, SEA and Regional EA can, in some
instances, be used as an ex post tool to analyze the impacts of a plan. Indeed, the Sourcebook Up-
date notes that "a Regional EA may be carried out in conjunction with a regional development
plan, and may also help shape investment priorities and activities downstream" (EA Sourcebook
Update, No. 15, p. 2). It also notes that some Regional EAs are "intended to assess an existing de-
velopment plan..." (EA Sourcebook Update, No. 15, pp. 8-9). In other words, some Regional EAs
are used ex ante and others ex post.

22.      In this case, however, due to the scope, timing and precedent-setting nature of the Petro-
leum Development and Pipeline Project, and its interrelationship with an extremely challenging
and evolving economic and development context, Bank Management determined to proceed first
with a RDP while also preparing the key elements of a regional assessment of environmental im-
pacts that could be completed once the type of development plan referred to in the Sourcebook was
finished and ready for assessment. This approach is consistent with the normal mandate for a Re-
gional EA, which "will only allow it to give recommendations for improving an existing plan" (EA
Sourcebook Update, No. 15, p. 10). As this RDP evolves, a Regional EA will, for all intents and
purposes, be developed as part of the RDP. Thus, over time, as details become better known, this
RDP will serve as both a development and environmental plan, eventually encompassing the in-
formation that would have been included in a Regional EA, and also will meet the objectives of
OD 4.01. This will be the case even though, as noted above, the preparation of a Regional EA is
not a mandatory requirement under OD 4.01. In addition, the overall objective of considering the
regional dimension of environmental issues has already been incorporated in the 1999 EA/EMP
and will be considered in more detail in the RDP. The RDP will accomplish the objective of the


                                                   6

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


framework emerging from the 1999 EA/EMP. The RDP also will strengthen long-term sustainabil-
ity of the Borrower to deal with the major impact of oil development. Furthermore, the RDP proc-
ess will build capacity in the region to engage in long-term planning and to address the cumulative
impacts of multiple investments by both the public and private sectors.

23.      It should also be emphasized that the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project spon-
sors and the Borrower agreed that any use of the pipeline to transport oil developed outside the
Doba Oil Field would be subject to the same environmental and social assessment requirements as
oil produced in the Doba Oil Field. As stated in section 4.10 of the Loan Agreement: "The Bor-
rower shall ensure that any oil developed outside the Doba Basin Oil Fields which is proposed to
be transported through any part of the Transportation System in Chad is developed in accordance
with the principles set forth in the 1999 EA/EMP with respect to environmental analysis and pro-
tection, consultation, information disclosure, resettlement and compensation and with the equiva-
lent legal and administrative approval processes and information disclosure as applied with respect
to the oil developed in the Doba Basin Oil Fields."

24.      In the light of OD 4.01, which does not "require" Regional EA and for which the circum-
stances were not appropriate, Management believes that this is not an issue of non-compliance.
Management will, however, welcome the opportunity to discuss this matter in greater detail with
the Panel.

                                   B. Equity and Poverty Reduction

Poverty Reduction on a National Scale and the Allocation of Oil Revenues

25.      The Panel's Report contains a number of observations and findings pertaining to the provi-
sions of OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction and OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Op-
erations. The Panel expressed concern about the adequacy of the allocation of revenues to Chad.
Management agrees that the adequacy of revenue allocation to Chad is an important issue. Man-
agement, however, also wishes to note that this is not an issue that relates to failure of the Bank to
follow its operational policies and procedures. The Report further asks whether all needed elements
are in place today to ensure future compliance with OD 4.15 and achieve poverty reduction objec-
tives. The Report notes that "there have to be limits to the coverage of any project" but that "suc-
cessful translation of oil revenues into equitable, effective economic development and poverty re-
duction extends well beyond budget allocations and the auditing and control of public expenditure,
requiring an infrastructure that extends from democratic institutions through to a growing real and
financial private sector..." (para. 278). Management is in full agreement with this view.

26.      By generating additional revenues through exploitation of oil in a severely resource-
constrained environment, one of the key impediments to providing basic public services for the
poor will be alleviated. However, the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, along with its
complementary projects, can only generate some of the conditions needed for long-term poverty
reduction, including greater public resource availability; increased foreign direct investment (FDI);
mobilization of the population and other actors around issues of governance, environmental and
social management and employment; and greater attention and funding to meet community needs.
Continued strengthening of institutions, improved public economic management, more equitable
and effective delivery of basic services, improved sector policies and transparency, and greater par-
ticipation of the population in decision making processes, are also key to achieving poverty allevia-
tion.

27.      The concern of the Panel revolves around whether sufficient measures are in place to
achieve poverty reduction objectives. Management supports the Panel's suggestion for continued


                                                  7

Chad


monitoring, review and assessment of the Petroleum Revenue Management Program by a group
such as the International Advisory Group (IAG). The Petroleum Revenue Management Program
constitutes an innovation. The PRMP has the following features: (i) petroleum revenues, net of fi-
nancing costs for the IBRD and EIB loans, will be channeled through project off-shore escrow ac-
counts, which will be audited; (ii) royalties and dividends (representing about 85 percent of ex-
pected revenues over the first ten years of production) will be invested as follows: 10 percent with
an external financial institution in long-term investment instruments for a "Future Generations
Fund," and 90 percent transiting through special Treasury accounts held in one or two private
commercial banks in Chad (the "Special Petroleum Revenues Accounts") to be used to finance in-
cremental expenditures in the five specified priority sectors relating to poverty alleviation, distribu-
tions to the producing region and GOC recurrent expenditures; and (iii) income taxes on the oilfield
operations and on the pipeline company TOTCO will be used to support increased development
expenditures generally.

28.      Although a moving baseline expressed as a proportion of real growth (rather than the use
of a fixed baseline) for the allocation of oil revenues to priority sectors could have been considered,
Management is confident that the significant size of oil revenues as a proportion of overall reve-
nues will ensure that a very high proportion of revenue growth is related to priority sectors. In addi-
tion, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) process and the development of sectoral in-
vestment programs in each of the priority sectors should facilitate an appropriate balance among
sectors.

29.      Management notes the Panel's Report's finding of non-compliance with OD 4.15 concern-
ing risk analysis and design, in view of the fact that the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Pro-
ject does not contain definitive measures to sterilize those revenues that cannot be absorbed by pri-
ority sectors. The provision (para. 5(a)(iii)) of the PRMP included in Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement for the Project states: "Amounts under paragraph 4(b)(i) above which cannot be used
for the agreed objectives, or the use of which would jeopardize the Borrower's macroeconomic
stability, shall be held in the Special Petroleum Revenue Accounts, under arrangements to be
agreed upon by the Bank, for their subsequent use in financing priority poverty reduction sectors
referred to in paragraph 4(b)(i) above." Discussions are currently ongoing between the Bank, GOC
and the IMF to arrive at an agreement on such measures. Work is being carried out in the context
of the development of a Medium Term Economic Framework (MTEF), which aims to smooth the
impact of oil revenue variations on Chad's investment programs. The MTEF and generated budgets
will be managed by traditional budget mechanisms that are being strengthened through the Man-
agement of the Petroleum Economy Project but also by other means, including the structural ad-
justment program, technical assistance from the IMF, and the PRSP process, under which partici-
patory sectoral expenditure programs are being developed.

30.      Management recognizes that the poverty alleviation impacts sought through increased re-
sources and their improved allocation to pro-poor expenditures will take some time to realize.
These impacts are the farthest removed in time from the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Pro-
ject itself and are the most sensitive to risks posed by actors and/or decisions that lie outside the
Project's scope. Management is addressing these issues through strong support for the PRSP proc-
ess and for the broader economic management reform agenda, including a substantial program of
budget system reform. In addition, in the context of the country program, each priority sector is
receiving support for expenditure program development and, as has already been done in the con-
text of HIPC, in developing budgets linked to outcome indicators. These indicators are being moni-
tored closely and the ability to measure progress is being strengthened gradually, through stronger
statistical mechanisms to inform decision making. Continued emphasis on improving governance,
including transparent economic management, availability of information and participation of the



                                                    8

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


population in public decision making, stands at the core of Management's country dialogue with
Chad and is reflected in many complementary parts of the country program outside of oil-related
projects. The confluence of these actions is intended to maximize the poverty alleviation impacts of
the Project in the medium to long term.

Poverty Reduction and Allocation of Revenues to the Producing Region

31.      The Panel's Report expresses concern about the share of revenues allocated to the produc-
ing region by the GOC. Management notes that this is not a matter of compliance with Bank pol-
icy. The principle for such an allocation is provided for in Article 212 of the Constitution of Chad,
which does not refer to any specific percentage. As provided in Article 8(c) of the Law on Revenue
Management (adopted December 30, 1998), "Five percent (5%) of royalties shall be allocated to
decentralized communities in the producing region in accordance with the provisions of Article 212
of the Constitution." This decision was arrived at through an internal political process. As is high-
lighted in the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project documentation and in the Loan Agree-
ments, the 5 percent of royalties accruing to the producing region will be in addition to the portion
of priority expenditures accruing to it through national programs and the general budget. Neverthe-
less, Management agrees with the Panel that the available information on regional expenditure
would be of use to stakeholders in the debate on the regional impact of budget allocation and in
particular to those participating in the RDP development process. The GOC is committed to com-
piling existing information on budget allocations and execution and providing this information to
participants in the RDP process.

Poverty Reduction in the Producing Region and Implementation Delays

32.      As the Panel's Report notes, "Evidence of beneficial expenditures and planned activities
taking place in the producing region before oil starts to flow could be an effective way of providing
reassurance that the producing region will not lose out" (para. 285). FACIL, the Local Initiatives
Fund (Fonds d'Actions Concertées d'Initiatives Locales) was designed to finance social and eco-
nomic infrastructure and to promote income-generating activities in the oil producing region, while
contributing to the mitigation of possible negative impacts. The RDP would also contribute to this
objective. Management notes the Panel's finding that implementation delays for environmental and
social management "threaten to compromise the delivery of poverty reduction in the later stages of
construction of the Pipeline and in the early stages of operation..." (para. 287). Management, there-
fore, has intensified its efforts to support the GOC in implementing urgently capacity-building and
accompanying measures, with the aim of fostering income-generating opportunities before oil
starts flowing in the producing region. In this connection, actions have been taken to promote pri-
vate sector development and establish support mechanisms for entrepreneurs to take advantage of
income-earning opportunities (see Annex 1, Comment 38C).

33.      Management takes the view that the delivery of early benefits under the FACIL to the pro-
ducing region, although highly desirable, is not a matter of compliance with OD 4.15. Benefits of
the FACIL will accrue within the life of the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Pro-
ject as FACIL gains real capacity to carry out its tasks. Management will continue to monitor the
implementation of this aspect of the Project in accordance with its policies and procedures on pro-
ject supervision.




                                                   9

Chad



                 C. Capacity-Building to Enhance Sustainability and Reduce Risks

Objectives of the Capacity-Building Projects

34.     Two capacity-building projects in Chad were prepared to complement the Petroleum De-
velopment and Pipeline Project.

        ·    The Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, approved by the Executive Di-
             rectors on January 27, 2000 and declared effective on September 21, 2000, aims to
             build Chad's capacity to manage its petroleum revenues. It has the following five main
             components: (i) strengthening public financial management; (ii) strengthening human
             resources management; (iii) reinforcing oversight and control; (iv) improving the pov-
             erty data base and developing a poverty reduction strategy; and (v) monitoring eco-
             nomic reform and coordinating capacity-building.

        ·    The Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project, approved by the Execu-
             tive Directors on June 6, 2000 and declared effective on March 23, 2001, aims to
             strengthen the capacity of Chad to: (i) manage the development of its petroleum re-
             sources in an environmentally and socially sound manner, beginning with the Petro-
             leum Development and Pipeline Project in southern Chad; (ii) minimize and mitigate
             the potential negative environmental and social impacts of the Petroleum Development
             and Pipeline Project on the oil producing region, strengthen local capacity in the re-
             gion, and provide opportunities for the region's residents to improve their living condi-
             tions; and (iii) establish an effective framework for further sound private sector in-
             vestment in the petroleum sector, and engage effectively with such investors. The
             Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project has two main components:
             (i) the Doba Project Management Component, designed to increase Chad's capacity to
             monitor and manage the environmental and social impacts of the Petroleum Develop-
             ment and Pipeline Project, and to mitigate its impact on the producing region; and (ii)
             the Petroleum Sector Management Component, designed to strengthen the GOC's ca-
             pacity to support and manage the development of Chad's petroleum sector.

Key Issues

35.     The Panel's Report raises two principal issues: (i) insufficient analysis and appraisal of the
sustainability and risks of the above two Projects; and (ii) the implementation delays in building the
needed capacities. Management recognized that the GOC was not equipped with adequate institu-
tions, appropriate laws, regulations or standards to manage and monitor a project of this magnitude
and complexity. Management and staff have been acutely aware of the need to implement measures
rapidly in environmental capacity-building and petroleum revenue management and have repeat-
edly highlighted the risks of slow implementation to the GOC. Management acknowledges that a
more detailed discussion of the risks of these two Projects should have been included in the Pro-
jects' documentation. The multi-layered monitoring by the External Compliance Monitoring Group
(ECMG), the IFC, the Bank and the IAG has been designed specifically in recognition of the fact
that national capacity to monitor the Project would take time to develop. Management also wishes
to note that the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project was specially designed to reduce reli-
ance on government and place more responsibility on the private sector operator. Significant dis-
cussions also were held by the Executive Directors to discuss risks prior to approval of the Pipeline
Project in June 2000.




                                                  10

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation



Recent Progress: Management of the Petroleum Economy Project

36.      Public expenditure reviews in the health and education sectors have been completed. To-
gether with the tracking of expenditure to destination, they provide the building blocks for the
preparation of medium-term expenditure programs, which are essential for providing a framework
for efficient use of oil revenues (see also Annex 1, Comment 37). In addition, personnel of the
newly created Auditor General's Office have completed an audit of the off-budget use of the oil
bonus, and are in the process of overseeing the ex post audit of 2001 procurement contracts and the
procurement system.

37.      Timely implementation of a full-fledged system to monitor oil revenue flows, allocate
them in accordance with the Petroleum Revenue Management Program and spend them efficiently
for poverty reduction in priority sectors by early 2004 remains a challenge. Management's dialogue
with GOC has emphasized that improving governance is the key element to adequate management
of oil and other revenues, and governance has emerged as a key issue in the GOC's PRSP, follow-
ing extensive regional consultations. Improving such management depends only partially on the
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project. It relies heavily on macro-economic and sectoral
capacity-building work and dialogue being carried out outside of the Project and documented else-
where (PRSP, CAS, adjustment lending, etc). Chad's essential institutional capacity needs are ex-
pected to be in place for the 2004 budget exercise. These needs are: (i) to assess the levels of reve-
nue accruing to Chad and to monitor oil revenue flows; (ii) to have appropriate planning and
budgeting processes for priority sectors in place; and (iii) to include information on regional alloca-
tion of resources in the budget decision making process. Training of staff at the Ministry of Finance
is also ongoing. Management is committed to continuing its support to meet these objectives.

38.      With regard to the operation of the oil revenue account, its operation will have continued
monitoring by the IAG. In addition, Management will continue to support strengthening of the ex-
isting operational capacity of the Committee for Oversight and Control of Petroleum Resources
(CCSRP ­ Collège de Contrôle et Surveillance des Ressources Pétrolières). This Committee is
charged under the Law on Revenue Management to: ensure that commitments for funding from the
Special Accounts meet the requirements of the Finance Act; and authorize and monitor disburse-
ment from the Special Accounts and the appropriation of funds. On-site technical assistance is be-
ing provided by the US Government. The 2002 Budget allocated FCFA 100 million for the func-
tioning of the CCSRP, and has published its 2001 annual report and its first quarterly report for
2002. (See also Annex 1, Comment 34A.)

Recent Progress: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project

39.      Attention was paid to capacity-building during regular supervision visits, since Board ap-
proval of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project in June 2000. There was a slow start on
the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project, due to delayed actions by the GOC
on personnel recruitment and procurement matters. Implementation of the Petroleum Sector Man-
agement Capacity-Building Project, however, has gathered momentum during the first half of
2002. Given the start-up delays, Management intensified its supervision, with frequent visits to the
field, and in March 2002 named a senior Program Coordinator based in Chad to oversee supervi-
sion of the Pipeline-related Projects.

Doba Oil Field Development Component

40.      The National Technical Committee for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Pipeline Project
(CTNSC ­ Comité Technique National de Suivi et de Contrôle) is responsible for monitoring and
control of environmental and social impacts of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project in


                                                  11

Chad


Chad. It is made up of representatives of several ministries, including the Ministries of Environ-
ment and Water Resources (chair); Mines, Energy and Petroleum; Public Works; Transport and
Urban Affairs. The basic role of the CTNSC permanent staff, headed by an Executive Secretary, is
to monitor closely the operations of the Project, cater for exceptional emergency situations where
TOTCO's capacity may be overtaxed, and coordinate interventions of Government agencies, par-
ticularly in the areas of water and environment, mines, industry, health and social affairs. The
CTNSC is now fully operational. Its on-site supervision team is in place (see para. 46 for recent
additions to the CTNSC staff). Key studies have been launched. Other recent efforts include:

        ·   Bids for the Expert Advisory Panel to assist CTNSC on socio-environmental matters
            and for establishing an environmental management and monitoring system were re-
            ceived;

        ·   An agreement was signed with a consulting company for the socio-demographic sur-
            vey in the oil producing region;

        ·   The preparation of the National Oil Spill Response Plan (NOSRP) is being synchro-
            nized with the preparation of the Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plan (ASOSRPs);

        ·   Three economists are being trained on oil revenue projections and a training program
            for the staff of the Petroleum Directorate is under preparation. Both the GOC and the
            Consortium are also providing technical training to Chadians who will be on site to
            monitor oil being pumped into the pipeline and onto cargo ships at the Kribi terminal;

        ·   Regular follow up meetings are being held with the Consortium, as are consultations
            and information sharing with civil society, NGOs and local administration;

        ·   A communication strategy for civil society and GOC officials has been developed at
            the national and local levels;

        ·   An urban planning study for Bébédjia, Doba, and Moundou is being finalized. Work
            has started on the feasibility study for public markets and slaughterhouses and their
            construction should start after the rainy season. Enterprises have been recruited to im-
            prove the drainage system in Doba and the contract for water supply facilities (bore-
            holes, pumps and standpipes) has been awarded;

        ·   The STD/HIV/AIDS prevention campaign in the Project area, particularly in the Doba
            and Bébédjia regions, has started under the guidance of a health expert recruited by
            CTNSC in mid-April (efforts on STD/HIV/AIDS started earlier through work with the
            Consortium);

        ·   To promote the sustainable use of natural forests and meet the increased demand for
            fuel wood in the Project area, the Household Energy Agency (AEDE) has started to
            implement pilot projects in five villages that will serve as best practice models for rep-
            lication in other villages of the Project area;

        ·   FACIL has been established to finance social and economic infrastructure and to pro-
            mote income-generating activities in the oil producing region, while contributing to the
            mitigation of possible negative impacts. A second information campaign on the activi-
            ties to be supported by this Fund was carried out in May 2002. The FACIL steering




                                                  12

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


             committee has received some 200 funding proposals, out of which sixty-five requests
             for micro-credits are actively being considered by five financial intermediaries;

        ·    The joint Bank/IFC SME Initiative has a full-time coordinator in N'Djamena and work
             has begun on several SME activities; and

        ·    In December 2001, a draft Cadre de Développement Regional de la zone pétrolière
             was completed that: (i) promotes a coordinated approach to regional development; (ii)
             sets preliminary intervention priorities for FACIL; and (iii) provides baseline informa-
             tion for elaborating the RDP. The draft Cadre and the terms of reference of the RDP
             were endorsed in April 2002 by representatives of civil society, the CTNSC, the Bank,
             and the GOC after three months of intense discussions. Completion of the RDP is ex-
             pected during the first half of 2003, before oil revenues materialize.

Petroleum Sector Management Component

41.     The Petroleum Directorate has prepared terms of reference for mobilizing specialized con-
sultants to assist the GOC in developing sector policy for the: (i) reform of the hydrocarbon sector,
including strengthening the GOC's ability to build on the Petroleum Development and Pipeline
Project experience and deal effectively with private oil companies to explore and develop the coun-
try's potential hydrocarbon reserves; (ii) preparation of a legal and regulatory framework for the
hydrocarbon sector with the objective of attracting more investments into the sector; (iii) design
and implementation of a petroleum exploration and development promotion strategy; and (iv) train-
ing of Chadian nationals in the overall management of the sector, including development of their
capacity to negotiate with prospective investors. In addition, EEPCI has trained a significant num-
ber of Chadians for skilled construction and technical jobs as well as for future jobs in operating
the fields. Also, international contractors for EEPCI have retained the services of Chadians, includ-
ing provision of training.

                                  D. Monitoring and Consultation

Monitoring

42.     The concluding chapter of the Panel's Report, on Monitoring and Supervision, notes the
seven layers of Project monitoring and supervision and the enhanced Bank field presence in Chad,
confirmed by the ECMG in its Third Site Visit Report, by the IAG in its December 2001 Report
and by the Panel itself during its field visits. The Panel has expressed satisfaction, in particular,
with the strong external Project monitoring by the ECMG and the IAG. Nevertheless, in several
specific areas, the Panel called special attention to monitoring and supervision gaps. For example,
investigation of work on oil spill response plans suggests that Management is in compliance with
OD 4.01, but the Panel urges continued monitoring and implementation of commitments by rele-
vant parties. Concerning surface and groundwater contamination from drilling, the Panel did not
find any conclusive evidence that Management is not in compliance with OD 4.01, but again urged
monitoring. The Panel's comments reflect concern about continuing compliance with compensa-
tion requirements of OD 4.30. Implementation delays in capacity-building gave rise to apprehen-
sions that future compliance with the poverty reduction mandate of OD 4.15 might be in jeopardy.
In other instances, the Panel reiterated the importance of continuous or periodic monitoring by the
Bank, by the GOC and by independent bodies.

43.     Management agrees with the Panel that the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project is
challenging, has considerable risks and warrants exceptional attention through supervision and
monitoring:


                                                   13

Chad


        ·    Management shares the Panel's overall view that monitoring and supervision as well as
             continuous consultation are serious issues and that continued vigilance in these matters
             is critical;

        ·    Management will continue to dedicate the necessary resources to conscientious and
             thorough Project supervision and monitoring by the Bank;

        ·    Management is equally cognizant of the importance of providing the necessary assis-
             tance to strengthen Chadian capacity for monitoring environmental and social issues
             and is making significant efforts to accelerate progress in its assistance programs; and

        ·    Management is committed, as it has already demonstrated, to continue to follow up, as
             appropriate, on the recommendations of the independent monitoring groups, the
             ECMG and the IAG.

44.     Management has provided four semi-annual reports to the Executive Directors of the Bank.
The latest of these covered the period from January to June 2002. This report noted that the multi-
layered supervision and monitoring structure are all operational. The IAG was appointed in Febru-
ary 2001 and has visited Chad three times. Its reports have been released to the public and provided
in both French and English on the IAG website (www.gic-iag.org). The reports of the ECMG are
also public and available in French and English on the IFC and Bank websites.

45.     The Bank and IFC have fielded supervision missions for the Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project, since Board approval in 2000. In the second half of 2001, Management authorized
an increase of supervision intensity to monthly field visits. In the light of this supervision and re-
ports of the IAG and ECMG, Management decided by year's end to move a full time supervision
team to the field to support GOC capacity-building initiatives. In March 2002, Management ap-
pointed a senior Program Coordinator in charge of the cluster of oil-related Projects, who arrived in
Chad in April. A second expert appointed by IFC also joined the Chad Country Office in March
with oversight responsibilities for strengthening the SME sector, including supervision of the re-
cently approved Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant to the Chamber of Commerce. These
two experts are supported from Bank headquarters by another senior staff member and, in
N'Djamena, by a social scientist in charge of the relationship and communication with civil soci-
ety, and a senior operations specialist responsible for following up on procurement. In addition,
IFC has maintained its project team of environmental, social and SME staff. As a part of the new
supervision arrangement, joint Bank/IFC teams were also established in June 2002 to further
strengthen supervision of social and environmental aspects of the Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project. This intensified supervision effort has already improved many aspects of imple-
mentation.

46.     Management has acknowledged that the pace of capacity-building in Chad has been slow,
although significant progress has been made recently. Since January 2002, almost all of the posi-
tions envisaged for CTNSC have been filled. There are now seven professional staff at headquar-
ters, including the director, a procurement specialist, an accountant and a monitoring specialist.
CTNSC has recruited twelve additional, professional field staff, in socio-economics, environment
and health. Other actions include acceleration of the procurement process; operationalization of the
environmental management and monitoring system; completion of a socio-demographic survey of
the oil producing region; staff training; and procurement of equipment. Capacity-building activities
are being carried out through cooperation among the stakeholders involved, including CTNSC,
TOTCO, Consortium and civil society organizations. Bi-weekly meetings are held to: follow up on




                                                  14

                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


implementation and discuss Project risks and mitigation measures; share information; and formu-
late procedures to address needs for rapid intervention, safety, security and compensation.

47.      The Panel has urged the Board to ensure that the external monitoring capacity in the form
of the IAG and the ECMG is sustained for as long as necessary and certainly well beyond dis-
bursement of the loans in question. IDA is seeking replenishment of the Trust Fund to finance the
work of the IAG. The ECMG will be in place to monitor the Petroleum Development and Pipeline
Project four to five times per year during construction and a minimum of once per year during the
13-year life of the loan.

Consultation

48.      The Panel has commended Management's efforts to encourage consultations with local
communities and civil society and urged their continuance, both in general and in specific in-
stances, where it is concerned that these voices may not be heard. The consultation process has
known three phases, Phase 1 - 1993­1997: Initiation of Dialogue; Phase II ­ 1997­1999: Consoli-
dation Phase; Phase III ­ post-1999: Broadening, Deepening and Upscaling. The 1997 Draft EA
was released in October and discussions were carried out between the Bank, IFC, the Consortium
and the GOC on Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project impacts and mitigation planning.
After the 1997 Draft EA was publicly disclosed, the consultation process improved both as a result
of the availability of the environmental documentation and of the subsiding tensions in the Project
area as political stability improved, especially after 1998. Also, as a result of Bank comments on
the 1997 Draft EA, the consultation process was reviewed and strengthened. An extensive public
information and consultation campaign was launched during the summer of 1997, which included a
Public Information Campaign in two rounds. A concrete output of the consultation process is the
rapid growth in civil society organizations. There has also been a shift of focus from narrowly de-
fined impact mitigation to the broader issue of regional development. Civil society organizations
are involved in the definition and operation of the FACIL and in the elaboration of the RDP. The
broad consultation process undertaken for the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project was
unprecedented in Chad and opened the way for increased civil society participation in public de-
bates over broad policy issues such as petroleum revenue management, governance, and social and
environmental issues. This participation is today consolidated in the context of the PRSP process
and in the formal representation of civil society in several official bodies, such as the Steering
Committee for the ongoing PRSP and the PROCC.

49.      The Consortium has taken proactive steps to improve its communication and outreach ef-
forts, for example, hiring public information experts in Chad to assist with and improve dissemina-
tion of information to the public and adding a new Local Community Contact in the oil field area to
liaise with herders. In the first quarter of 2002, the Consortium reported that 159 consultation ses-
sions were held in Chad. Efforts have been made to involve NGOs in the implementation of certain
aspects of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project. The Consortium publishes a newsletter
in Chad that will be disseminated more widely. Reading rooms have also been reopened in several
locations. In collaboration with the CTNSC, a periodic consultation system with civil society has
been put in place. The second round of consultations took place in Doba on April 29 and 30, 2002.
In November 2001, the Bank engaged a communications expert to assist the GOC; discussions are
focusing on upgrading radio station facilities in southern Chad and organizing regular Information
Caravans to the villages in the Project area.

50.      The IAG has identified a "need to create a permanent framework for dialogue between the
contracting parties and the stakeholders" overseen by the Coordination Nationale Projet Doba
(CNPD). Management plans to continue the consultation efforts and will pursue the establishment
of a permanent framework for dialogue.


                                                   15

Chad



                                 E. Governance and Human Rights

51.      Management wishes to note, as does the Panel's Report, that despite the references in the
Request to directives on "respect for human rights," the Bank has no such directives. Management
also notes that in its Report, para. 215, the Panel states that "[it] is not within the Panel's mandate
to assess the status of governance and human rights in Chad in general or in isolation, and the Panel
acknowledges that there are several institutions, (including UN bodies), specifically in charge of
the subject. However, the Panel felt obliged to examine whether the issue of proper governance or
human rights violations in Chad were such as to impede the implementation of the Project in a
manner compatible with the Bank's policies." In conclusion, with respect to this issue, the Panel
finds that "the situation in Chad is far from ideal, and raises questions about compliance with Bank
policies, in particular those that relate to informed and open consultation, and it warrants renewed
monitoring by the Bank."

52.      Management has been very keen to ensure that there was informed and open consultation
during the design and preparation of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project. An impor-
tant consultation process took place to: (i) share Project information with the affected communities;
(ii) determine Project needs and establish communities' entitlement and compensation; (iii) agree
on a framework for mitigating adverse impacts; and (iv) develop an RDP for the Project-related
areas. During the consultation process, opportunities have been given to the affected communities
to make their views known to the Project sponsors and the GOC. Information has been dissemi-
nated in local languages and, where necessary, Bank staff have been involved in improving the
quality of the consultation process, including building capacity for constructive engagement of lo-
cal NGOs.

53.      A key focus of the work of the IAG has been the need for structured, sustained communi-
cation among all parties. The IAG observed in its July Report (Report of Visit to Chad, June 3 to
17, 2002) that the anticipated "growth of powers transferred to the local level as part of regionaliza-
tion should give a stronger voice to the populations most directly concerned by the project."

54.      The Panel states in para. 136 of its Report, "Since 1999, Management has made significant
efforts to achieve compliance with paragraph 19 of OD 4.01, encouraging frequent consultations
with local communities and civil society in an environment more conducive to an open exchange."
As the Panel suggests, Management intends to continue to monitor and to promote activities that
would ensure that meaningful dialogue with civil society takes place.

55.      The Requesters allege the Bank has not complied with directives on governance. Manage-
ment notes that, although there is no specific Bank policy or directive on governance as such, a
number of its policies or directives cover various aspects of good governance, such as consultation,
transparency, anti-corruption, legal frameworks, and institutional capacity (IBRD, Governance:
The World Bank's Experience, 1994). Typically, governance issues are addressed in the preparation
of the CAS. For Chad, the Interim CAS highlights strongly the need to promote good governance
and the CAS under preparation focuses on the same issue. In addition, in Chad, the Bank has sup-
ported, through the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) IV approved by the Board on December
18, 2001, a reform program focused on: (i) improved governance by the adoption and implementa-
tion of a governance strategy and action plan; (ii) more transparent, accountable and efficient use
of public resources for poverty reduction through the reform of: (a) the budget cycle; (b) public
procurement including anti-corruption measures; and (c) the civil service; and (iii) poverty reduc-
tion in the rural areas through measures to strengthen cotton farmers' associations. This assistance
is being furthered through the proposed SAC V, which is expected to be presented to the Board in
October 2002.



                                                   16

                                                                     Management Report and Recommendation



                      V. MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

     56.      Management has considered fully the findings of the Panel's Report, as shown in Annex 1,
     and has developed concrete actions to address outstanding issues, both those in which the Panel
     raises questions about compliance with Bank policies and procedures and its more general sugges-
     tions to improve the effectiveness of the three Projects. Management proposes the following ac-
     tions, presented in Table 3 below.

                                   Table 3. Proposed Management Action Plan

                               ACTION                                                      ISSUE
                                                                          (numbers in parentheses refer to the Panel's
                                                                       findings and Management's comments in Annex 1)


Environmental and Social Compliance


Regional Development Plan (RDP) and 1999 EA/EMP -
Management will intensify its efforts to work with the relevant
Chadian agencies to prepare the RDP, in lieu of revising the 1999
EA/EMP, to address spatial issues and satisfy the objectives of
Regional EA. A consultant contract award for RDP services is          OD 4.01: Spatial context, Regional EA and
expected by end September 2002 with a final plan due in April         cumulative impacts (2, 4, 5 and 7)
2003.
     Management will also request the opportunity for dialogue with
the Inspection Panel to exchange views on the spatial context for the
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project and the application of
Regional EA.


Expert Advisory Panel - In May 2002, GOC received bids for
another Expert Advisory Panel and selection is expected shortly.
Management will involve the Quality Assurance and Compliance
Unit (QACU) of ESSD and the safeguards team of the Africa Region
in the formal review of the reports and recommendations prepared      OD 4.01, paragraph 13: Expert Advisory Panel
by this panel. These reviews will support the supervision and         involvement during EA formulation (6)
monitoring activities of the Bank. Management will facilitate
coordination between this panel and other groups involved in the
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project's implementation and
monitoring.


Baseline Data - Management will continue to monitor
implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP in order to address linkages of
the baseline situation to success or failure of mitigation measures   OD 4.01, Annex C, paragraph 2: Baseline data
and will follow up on recommendations of the ECMG and the IAG         linkages to impacts and mitigation (8)
regarding baseline data linkages to impacts and mitigation.
     Management will facilitate the provision of new economic,        Baseline data to compare health impacts pre-
demographic, social and health data to the GOC and RDP                and post-oil (9)
preparers. The RDP is expected to consider health and socio-
demographic issues and impacts.


Consideration of Alternatives ­ The Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project is being implemented based on the preferred alter-   OD 4.01, Annex B, paragraph 2 (f): Panel

native presented in the 1999 EA/EMP and in the PAD approved by        notes satisfaction with justification for selected

the Board in June 2000. Management will request the opportunity       alternative but questions lack of environmental

for dialogue with the Inspection Panel to exchange views on meth-     cost-benefit analysis and economic valuation

odologies for comparison of alternatives used in the Project.         of environmental impacts of alternatives (10)




                                                            17

     Chad



                                 ACTION                                                     ISSUE
                                                                           (numbers in parentheses refer to the Panel's
                                                                        findings and Management's comments in Annex 1)


Institutional Capacity - Management has strengthened its field
presence in Chad and will provide continued monitoring and super-      OD 4.01: Institutional capacity, particularly in
vision on a regular basis from both Bank headquarters and its field    respect to CTNSC (11)
offices to ensure that progress in capacity-building is sustained.


Monitoring - Management is committed to continued monitoring
through its own supervision efforts and the independent monitoring     Panel urged continued monitoring of a number
of the ECMG and the IAG.                                               of issues:
     Management is continuously monitoring progress in preparation     · Oil spills / ASOSRP (13)
of sound NOSRP and ASOSRPs, consistent with the standards of           · Regional water contamination (14)
the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation        · Local potable water contamination (15)
Association (IPIECA) and the 1999 EA/EMP. Management will follow       · Contamination of surface/groundwater from
up to ensure that disclosure and consultation are carried out appro-      drilling (16)
priately                                                               · Air pollution (17)
     The RDP will incorporate concerns regarding regional water        · Avoidance of Ogoniland, Nigeria situation ­
management, including provision of clean drinking water.                  (21)
ASOSRPs will contain scenarios located in the drainage area of         · Compensation (25)
Lake Chad.


Consultation - Management will continue the consultation efforts
and will pursue the establishment of a permanent framework for
dialogue. In November 2001, the Bank engaged a communications          OD 4. 01, paragraph 19: Consultation - Panel

expert to assist the GOC; discussions are focusing on upgrading        commends efforts and urges that they continue

radio station facilities in southern Chad and organizing regular       (22, 28)

Information Caravans to the villages in the Project area.


Economic Evaluation


Economic Analysis - Management will continue to monitor
implementation of the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-            Technical assistance to monitor and audit oil
Building Project, including monitoring of the training program for     produced and revenue generated ­ essential
staff of the Petroleum Directorate and recruitment of 10 Chadian       that this is operational before oil production
controllers. Management will also follow up on the potential need to   commences (31)
hire international experts under the Capacity-Building Project.


Other Economic Benefits. Although no action is feasible with re-
spect to the PAD itself, Management will continue to monitor and       OP 10.04: More detailed examination of other

collect data on the economic benefits of the Project.                  economic benefits desired in the PAD (32)


Sustainability and Risks - Management has intensified supervi-
sion, notably by the assignment of senior staff members to the Chad    OP 10.04: Analysis of risks and sustainability

office, and will continue its efforts to support accelerated implemen- in Management of the Petroleum Economy

tation by GOC of measures to build capacity in environment and         Project and Petroleum Sector Management

petroleum revenue management.                                          Capacity-Building Project (34)




                                                              18

                                                                      Management Report and Recommendation



                               ACTION                                                        ISSUE
                                                                           (numbers in parentheses refer to the Panel's
                                                                        findings and Management's comments in Annex 1)


Poverty Reduction


PRMP - Handling and Allocation of Oil Revenues - Management
has intensified supervision of the Project, notably by the appoint-    OD 4.15: Future compliance with OD 4.15 ­
ment of senior staff members to the Bank's Chad office, and remains    sufficiency of measures to deliver poverty
committed to supervise and help strengthen monitoring of PRMP          reduction outcomes are of concern; vital to
implementation. Management is also committed to the continued          have continuing monitoring, review and
monitoring, review and assessment of its implementation by the IAG.    assessment of handling and allocation of oil
In addition, Management will continue to pursue the actions that are   revenues by an independent body such as the
being taken outside the scope of the three Projects to assist GOC to   IAG (35)
put in place long-term economic and budget management capacity.


PRMP - Institutional Capabilities and Monitoring- Management           Petroleum Revenue Management Program
is committed to continued monitoring, review and assessment by         and institutional capabilities and monitoring -
the IAG and will continue to implement measures recommended by         vital that the dedicated Special Accounts be
the IAG as appropriate.                                                subject of continuing monitoring, review and
                                                                       assessment by an independent body such as
                                                                       the IAG (36 D)


Allocation of Resources to Producing Regions - Management
and the GOC will continue to carry out work underway in the Public     Allocation of resources to producing regions -
Expenditure Review (PER) to determine regional patterns of public      information essential for stakeholders
expenditure and to define the specific modalities by which             concerning appropriate shares in national
decentralized local structures will manage the additional 5 percent of income and wealth (37)
petroleum revenues reserved for the producing region.


Implementation Delays and Accelerated Action - Management
remains committed to continue its intensified supervision efforts in
the future. As per the Panel's suggestion, Management will pursue      OD 4.15: Future compliance in jeopardy if

efforts to improve the situation on the ground. IAG and ECMG will      implementations delays are not addressed

also continue their regular monitoring and assessment of the           (38A and 38E).

Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project.


Community and Entrepreneur Needs, Commodity Price In-                  Priority community needs in danger of not
creases - Management will follow up on assisting GOC to acceler-       being fulfilled (38B)
ate measures on serving community needs through FACIL and to           No evidence that capacity-building and support
implement progress on the Chad/Cameroon SME initiative and IDF         for entrepreneurs are in place (38C)
Grant. Management will also follow up on issues related to price       Affordability of goods and services to the poor
inflation.                                                             (38D)



Possible Variations in Oil Revenue Inflows - Together with the
IMF, Management is currently discussing with GOC the modalities        OD 4.15: Risk analysis and institutional design

that would apply to the sterilization of unused funds held for future  - poverty reduction jeopardized by possible

allocation to priority sectors.                                        variations in oil revenue inflows (39)


Monitoring and Supervision


Continued External Monitoring - IDA is seeking replenishment of
the Trust Fund to finance the work of the IAG. The ECMG will re-       IAG and ECMG work urged to continue as long
main in place to monitor the Petroleum Development and Pipeline        as necessary and well beyond disbursement of
Project four to five times per year during construction and a mini-    loans (40)
mum of once per year during the 13-year life of the loan.



                                                            19

Chad



                                           VI. CONCLUSION

57.      Management believes that the Bank has made exceptional efforts to apply its policies and
procedures and to pursue concretely its mission statement in the context of the Petroleum Devel-
opment and Pipeline Project, Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project and the
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project. Given these actions, Management does not agree
that, as a result, the Requestors' rights or interests have been, or will be, directly and adversely af-
fected by these Projects. Management remains committed to a process of regular consultation and
disclosure to assure the environmental and social soundness of the Projects during implementation.
Management intends to pursue the improvement of governance and the alleviation of poverty in
Chad through the Projects, and the Bank's country dialogue and assistance program for Chad.




                                                   20

                                         MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                           IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
                          CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT;
                    CHAD - PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT; AND
                              CHAD - MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT

                                                         ANNEX 1
                                           FINDINGS, COMMENTS AND ACTIONS
No.  Finding                                Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                            Para    icy
     Environmental Compliance
1.   EA Process. The Panel finds that       5.5, 46 4.01 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
     Management is in compliance with                    Inspection Panel.
     OD 4.01 with respect to project
     classification.                                     Action: No action required.
2.   Spatial Context. The 1997              5.1,    4.01 Comment: Management accepts the Panel's statement that the 1997
     Environmental Assessment               27-29        draft EA documentation for the Petroleum Development and Pipeline
     document provides [...] neither                     Project did not provide discussion of how the boundary of the study area
     discussion on how the boundary of                   was defined or the potential area affected by Project development.
     the study area was defined, nor                     Management notes that the 1999 revisions to the documentation were
     any mention of the potential area                   not taken into account in the determination of non-compliance.
     that could be affected by project                        To address the study area issue, staff issued a deficiency
     development. [...] The Consortium                   memorandum (May 26, 1998) regarding the EA documentation, which
     and Bank Management did not                         included comments on the boundaries of the study area. As a result, the
     explicitly consider the spatial                     1997 draft EA documentation was revised and the EA Executive
     dimensions of the Project as                        Summary and Update and a detailed EMP were produced in 1999.
     required by OD 4.01 with the result                      The 1999 EA/EMP addresses study area definition and the potential
     that they tend to restrict it to the                area affected. A practical approach was used to analyze the spatial
     immediate area of the three                         context of potential impacts. The relevant study areas were determined
     oilfields and the pipeline right-of-                as appropriate to specific topics and concerns, e.g., the extent of
     way to Cameroon [...]. In the light                 potential impacts of an oil spill differs from that of demographic changes,
     of this, the Panel finds                            such as in-migration. Management believes that a single pre-determined
     Management not in compliance                        study area encompassing the full range of impacts would have been
     with OD 4.01 in this respect.                       cumbersome and ineffective in accomplishing the purpose of EA ­ to
                                                         improve decision making. Several examples of spatial contexts follow.
                                                         ·    The oil field development area is not part of the financing.
                                                              Nevertheless, Bank Management and the Consortium addressed
                                                              the oil field development area in the 1999 EA/EMP to ensure
                                                              coverage of issues and improve decision making in accord with OD
                                                              4.01;
                                                         ·    The preliminary Oil Spill Response Plan in the 1999 EA/EMP,
                                                              subsequently superseded by the September 1999 General Oil Spill
                                                              Response Plan, describes typical oil spill response scenarios for
                                                              spills to international waterways, such as the Mbéré and Lim, which
                                                              drain into Lake Chad;
                                                         ·    The 1999 EA/EMP includes a requirement for an RDP, the
                                                              boundaries of which extend well beyond the three oil fields and the
                                                              pipeline right-of-way. The purpose of the RDP (EMP, Volume 4,
                                                              Chad Portion) was to "outline appropriate measures to mitigate the
                                                              anticipated indirect impact of the project." The zone for the RDP is
                                                              shown in the EMP, the April 2000 PAD (p. 109) presented to the
                                                              Board and Annex 8 of the Credit Agreement for the Petroleum
                                                              Development and Pipeline Project (shown in this document as Map
                                                              2); and
                                                         ·    In addition, the Petroleum Revenue Management Program, which
                                                              has detailed rules for the handling and allocation of oil revenues in
                                                              Chad as a whole, takes into account the national implications of the
                                                              Project. These economic impacts were not restricted to the
                                                              immediate area of the OFDA and the pipeline right-of-way.
                                                         See also Comment 4.

                                                         Action: Management will intensify its efforts to work with the relevant
                                                         Chadian agencies to prepare the RDP, in lieu of revising the 1999
                                                         EA/EMP, to address spatial issues. Management will also request the
                                                         opportunity for dialogue with the Inspection Panel to exchange views on
                                                         the spatial context for the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project.

                                                            21

   Chad
No.   Finding                               Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                            Para    icy
3.    Temporal Context. The Panel is        5.2, 30 4.01 Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's satisfaction with the
      satisfied that the EA covers the life              clear definition and coverage of the temporal context of the Petroleum
      of the Project and that the                        Development and Pipeline Project in the EA.
      temporal context has been clearly
      defined.                                           Action: No action required.
4.    Regional EA. [T]he Panel finds        5.3,    4.01 Comment: Management wishes to note that OD 4.01, para. 5 does not
      that potential regional impacts       33-39        require Regional EA, but suggests circumstances in which it may be
      resulting from cumulative actions                  appropriate. Instead of preparing a Regional EA, the methodology
      were not adequately dealt with.                    chosen was to prepare an EA/EMP that contained the framework and
      [...T]he Panel cannot find any                     requirement for a more comprehensive RDP (EMP, Volume 4, Chad
      indication that any cumulative                     Portion). See Comment 2 above.
      effects assessment was                                  It was evident early in the appraisal process that oil field
      completed. The Panel finds this a                  development in Chad would have significant impacts, both positive and
      serious omission. The Panel finds                  negative, on the surrounding area. The approach taken incorporated the
      that in failing to require a                       understanding that impacts and opportunities would be manifested along
      cumulative effects assessment,                     a range of parameters driven chiefly by economic, social, and
      Management is not in compliance                    demographic factors. These factors would have direct and indirect
      with OD 4.01. In the Panel's view,                 effects on human settlements and social organization, the environment
      after careful consideration of the                 and the region's natural resource base.
      evidence, the Pipeline Project                          The choice of an RDP is considered by staff to be a more
      requires a Regional Environmental                  comprehensive approach than Regional EA, while serving the same
      Assessment. In failing to require                  objectives. OD 4.01 explains several uses and modalities for Regional
      the preparation of a Regional                      EA - identification of issues that might be overlooked when a series of
      Environmental Assessment, which                    similar activities is planned in an area; comparison of alternative
      would adequately assess the                        development scenarios and recommendations for environmentally
      nature and extent of broader                       sustainable development and land use; analysis of cumulative impacts;
      environmental and social concerns                  and as a tool in regional planning itself. The framework RDP, as set forth
      resulting from the Project, the                    in the 1999 EA/EMP, provides the mechanism to address issues that
      Panel finds that Management is                     might have been overlooked (because their full magnitude would have
      not in compliance with paragraph 5                 been unknown), examine alternative development scenarios and
      of OD 4.01.                                        recommend appropriate land use and development patterns, as well as
                                                         incorporate environmental concerns. Since the impetus for regional
                                                         development was a single private sector investment, by an investor with
                                                         negligible control over regional and cumulative impacts, the decision to
                                                         prepare an RDP was deemed preferable to converting the investment
                                                         EA to, or adding, a Regional EA. Furthermore, the RDP process will
                                                         build Chadian capacity to engage in long-term planning and implement
                                                         plans to address the cumulative effects of multiple investments by both
                                                         the private and public sectors.
                                                              The RDP is a development tool, to be implemented with a variety of
                                                         financial resources (petroleum revenues as well as donor funding),
                                                         which will capitalize on positive impacts, attenuate negative impacts as a
                                                         result of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project and ensure
                                                         sustainable human development. This five-year plan will integrate socio-
                                                         economic and environmental issues linked to the Project, in harmony
                                                         with the PRSP and sectoral policies (especially the national economic
                                                         development policy for the rural sector) through participatory processes
                                                         involving local communities, civil society and government agencies. The
                                                         RDP will reflect the aspirations of populations within the region. It will
                                                         include a land use plan and development actions; a program for the
                                                         plan's implementation, including the need to reinforce institutional
                                                         capacities of government; and a monitoring program. Because of the
                                                         holistic approach to the plan, the RDP is expected to address cumulative
                                                         (additive and synergistic) effects, defined as the incremental impact of
                                                         the Project when added to other past, present and reasonably
                                                         foreseeable future actions. In short, the RDP is expected to achieve the
                                                         objectives of a Regional EA.

                                                         Action: Management will intensify its efforts to work with the relevant
                                                         Chadian agencies to prepare the RDP to satisfy the objectives of
                                                         Regional EA. A consultant contract award for RDP services is expected
                                                         by end September 2002 with a final plan due in April 2003. Management
                                                         will also request the opportunity for dialogue with the Inspection Panel to
                                                         exchange views regarding the application of Regional EA in the
                                                         Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project.
                                                             22

                                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                              Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                          Para   icy
5.   Regional Development Plan. The       5.4,   4.01 Comment: See also Comment 2 and Comment 4.
     Panel notes that, although a         42-45              Some delay occurred in the preparation of the RDP, because of
     Regional Development Plan is                     debate over spatial aspects. One view was that a definition of the
     currently in preparation by the                  "region" was required a priori; the other view was that spatial analysis
     Government of Chad and the                       was premature, because the spatial dimensions are a product of
     framework for such a document                    economic, social and demographic processes.
     appears in the Project EMP                              Some regional planning work has been accomplished in the context
     documentation, the lack of                       of FACIL, which has produced a Cadre de Développement Régional de
     capacity within the Government to                la zone pétrolière, an area smaller than that envisaged for the RDP.
     prepare this document in step with                      The RDP will address the need for capacity within government, i.e.,
     the rapid pace of Project                        it will include an evaluation of the GOC's capacity to carry out its
     development is now clearly                       responsibilities in conformance with the 1999 EA/EMP and propose
     evident. This needs to be put in                 mechanisms to reinforce capacity as needed. The RDP is expected to
     place without delay. [T]he Panel                 fulfill the objectives of Regional EA and play an important role in
     recalls its finding that Management              capacity-building to address long-term, regional, cumulative impacts.
     failed to comply with paragraph 5
     of OD 4.01 with regard to the                    Action: Management will intensify its efforts to work with the relevant
     preparation of a Regional                        Chadian agencies to prepare and implement the RDP and will pay
     Environmental Assessment as this                 particular attention to the capacity-building issues.
     would have provided the needed
     initial framework for the
     preparation of a Regional
     Development Plan.
6.   Expert Advisory Panel. [T]he         5.5.1, 4.01 Comment: The GOC retained a Canadian-based firm in 1996 to staff an
     Panel finds that Management is       48-53       independent Expert Advisory Panel, composed of a Canadian
     not in compliance with paragraph                 environmental specialist, an American health specialist and a French
     13 of OD 4.01 for failing to involve             socio-economist. The Expert Advisory Panel carried out missions in
     the independent Expert Advisory                  1996-1999 and provided reports to the Governments of Chad and
     Panel during the formulation of the              Cameroon. GOC did not renew the contract for the Expert Advisory
     Project's Environmental                          Panel.
     Assessment. Finally, the Panel                          Management notes the finding of the Panel and acknowledges that
     notes that the CTNSC is currently                it could have more extensively involved the Expert Advisory Panel in the
     recruiting a `new' International                 formulation of the EA. It should also be recognized that the Expert
     Advisory Panel. Mechanisms                       Advisory Panel's comments and recommendations resulted in
     should be put in place to ensure                 improvements in the EA process, including rerouting of the pipeline
     that comments of that Panel are                  around the ecologically sensitive Mbéré Valley in Cameroon, which was
     fully incorporated into the Project              consistent with staff's own recommendation to do so after their site visit
     review process.                                   in 1998. Given that the Expert Advisory Panel made substantial
                                                       contributions to the EA process, Management recognizes that its role
                                                       could have been better described in the Response to the Inspection
                                                       Panel Request.

                                                       Action: In May 2002, GOC received bids for another Expert Advisory
                                                       Panel and selection is expected shortly. Management will involve the
                                                       Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit (QACU) of ESSD and the
                                                       safeguards team of the Africa Region in the formal review of the reports
                                                       and recommendations prepared by this panel. These reviews will
                                                       support the supervision and monitoring activities of the Bank.
                                                       Management will facilitate coordination between this panel and other
                                                       groups involved in the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project's
                                                       implementation and monitoring.
7.   Adaptive Design Process. [T]he       5.5.2, 4.01 Comment: See Comment 2 and Comment 4.
     Panel confirms its view that a       56
     cumulative impacts assessment
     should have been undertaken in
     the context of the Pipeline Project.
8.   Baseline Data - Linkages. In the     6, 57- 4.01 Comment: Management accepts the finding that this linkage was inade-
     Panel's view, there is a lack of     66          quate in the 1997 EA of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Pro-
     linkage among baseline data                      ject. Impact analyses that led to the development of the mitigation
     collection, assessment of Project                measures were based on the baseline data in the 1997 EA, in the sup-
     impacts, and the application of                  porting documents of the 1999 EA/EMP (e.g., Volume 5 of Supporting
     specific mitigation and                          Documents) and in the reference documents. Identified data gaps from
     Management actions. [...] The                    1997 were filled in the 1999 documents. Additional baseline data were
     Panel notes the significant effort               collected subsequently in specific areas. This process of data collection
     which the Consortium has made to                 is ongoing as part of the ECMG monitoring, which is also revealing
                                                          23

   Chad
No.   Finding                                Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                             Para   icy
      collect baseline information about                 needs for new data. The adaptive design/change management process
      the Project and its effects. [...] The             was put in place to deal with changing circumstances.
      Panel finds, however, that this                         Of particular importance to the Panel's concern is the innovative
      data has not been properly utilized                tool, specified in the 1999 EA/EMP, to link baseline data collection, as-
      to support the EA process. [...]                   sessment of Project impacts, and the application of specific mitigation
      The Panel, therefore, finds that                   and management actions on the ground. As stated in the May 10, 2001,
      Management is not in compliance                    Management Response, the "Handbook for Site-Specific Environmental
      with Paragraph 2 of Annex C of                     Mitigation Actions" and the Environmental Alignment Sheets (EAS) are
      OD 4.01.                                           the instruments linking sensitive and special interest habitats with mitiga-
                                                         tion and management requirements. Volume 6 of the EMP: Chad Portion
                                                         spells out this linkage. "In addition to allowing for a site-specific depiction
                                                         of important biological resource information, the Environmental Align-
                                                         ment Sheets [...] also function as a tool for highlighting the locations
                                                         along the Chad Transportation System where site-specific environmental
                                                         management requirements are to be implemented prior to, during,
                                                         and/or after construction of the pipeline" (p. 1).
                                                              Baseline information in the EASs, mapped to a scale of 1:10,000,
                                                         consists of vegetation/land classifications, villages/settlements, vegeta-
                                                         tion and wildlife resources. Mitigation and management resources com-
                                                         prise vegetation and wildlife protection measures, monitoring and sur-
                                                         veys, fisheries protection measures, induced access management
                                                         measures, erosion and sediment control and reclamation measures. The
                                                         environmental management requirements appearing in the EASs have
                                                         been designed to reduce construction and operations-related impacts to
                                                         acceptable levels that are consistent with the impacts identified in the
                                                         EIAs/EMPs. The baseline data, potential impacts and management re-
                                                         quirements are coded on the EASs. The codes are summarized in tabu-
                                                         lar format by pipeline kilometer post in an accompanying document re-
                                                         ferred to as the Environmental Line List (Volume 6). Instructions on
                                                         implementation are detailed in the "Handbook."
                                                              Demonstration of the utility of this tool is not found in the 1999
                                                         EA/EMP but on the ground where it is being routinely used to accom-
                                                         plish the objectives of OD 4.01, Annex C, para. 2.

                                                         Action: Management will continue to monitor implementation of the
                                                         1999 EA/EMP in order to address linkages of the baseline situation to
                                                         success or failure of mitigation measures and will follow up on
                                                         recommendations of the ECMG and the IAG regarding baseline data
                                                         linkages to impacts and mitigation.
9.    Baseline Data ­ Health. The            6, 63  4.01 Comment: Health and socio-economic data are available for the popula-
      Panel finds that the socio-                        tions and areas where direct impacts have been foreseen, but baseline
      economic baseline survey for the                   data to compare health and socio-economic changes, pre- and post-oil,
      larger region of the pipeline is                   for the broader producing region are not included in the 1999 EA/EMP.
      adequate, but with certain                         Management accepts the Panel's finding that monitoring of data for the
      qualifications. The Environmental                  broader region would contribute significantly to addressing regional im-
      Assessment Appendix B (Human                       pacts in the context of the RDP. Demographic and health data disaggre-
      Environment) does provide a                        gated by region became available in 2001 through a Demographic and
      detailed census and review of                      Health Survey financed by the Bank (DHS); the 1997 DHS only provided
      health problems of the region in                   baseline data countrywide. In addition, the 2001 PER, which focused on
      southern Chad affected by the                      the health and education sectors, has made data available on expendi-
      Project [...]. It does not, however,               tures by region for these sectors. Therefore, it is now possible to analyze
      provide baseline data with which to                changes in health outcomes and expenditure allocations for a given re-
      compare pre- and post-oil revenue                  gion. Two successive national-scale HIV/AIDS prevention projects have
      changes including inflation,                       financed the monitoring and collection of data on HIV/AIDS, including in
      employment, or projections of the                  the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project area.
      increase in health risks such as                        The GOC's statistical office collects countrywide economic and price
      HIV/AIDS [... and STDs] resulting                  index data annually. The quality of this data and its disaggregation by
      from the Oil Pipeline Project.                     geographical area are being progressively improved. Currently inflation
      [...T]he EA does not clearly                       and price index data are available at the provincial level on an annual
      identify mitigation measures to                    basis.
      deal with the increase in social,
      economic, and health problems                      Action: Management will facilitate the provision of new economic,
      resulting from, or influenced by,                  demographic, social and health data to the GOC and RDP preparers.
      the Oil Pipeline Project. Integration              The RDP is expected to consider health and socio-demographic issues
      of these findings would greatly                    and impacts.
                                                             24

                                                                                      Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                                Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                            Para   icy
     enhance the EMP and contribute
     to the Regional Development Plan.
10.  Consideration of Alternatives in       7, 69- 4.01 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding that the alternatives
     the EMP. With the exception of the     70          analysis was extensive and well-prepared and acknowledges the Panel's
     economic evaluation, the Panel                     satisfaction with the justification for the selected alternative.
     considers [Alternative Analysis, in                     Management wishes to note that OD 4.01, Annex B, para. 2f, does
     the supporting Documents of the                    not require quantification of environmental costs and benefits and eco-
     1999 EMP] to be extensive, well                    nomic valuations, but rather indicates that this be done to the extent
     prepared, and in support of the                    possible and where feasible. Management believes that it did provide
     final decision for process and route               adequate and quantitative environmental data (e.g., length intersecting
     selection. OD 4.01, however,                       different habitat types, number of water courses, number of villages and
     requires that for each of the                      the like) to compare alternatives. This was a methodological decision,
     alternatives, the environmental                    which rested on the principle of minimizing (in many cases avoiding)
     costs and benefits should be                       adverse environmental and social impacts. The method adopted, i.e.,
     quantified to the extent possible,                 avoiding or minimizing the costs of environmental damage, to select the
     and that economic values should                    preferred alternatives for each component and overall, accorded envi-
     be attached where feasible. The                    ronmental values the highest significance. The valuation of adverse envi-
     Panel finds little evidence that this              ronmental impacts would necessitate valuing intangibles, use and non-
     economic analysis was undertaken                   use values, all of which are subject to considerable debate and interpre-
     in the evaluation of Project                       tations, in a complex project with multiple components. Preferred alter-
     Alternatives. [...] While noting its               natives were selected for (i) oil field development, (ii) transportation in-
     satisfaction with the justification                frastructure, (iii) pipeline corridors and (iv) marine terminal locations,
     provided for the selected Project                  which then resulted in an overall preferred alternative. This decision
     alternative, the Panel concludes                   making method was a methodological preference, not a flaw, because
     that Management is not in                          the outcome was an alternative that minimized both environmental and
     compliance with paragraph 2 (f) of                 social adverse effects.
     Annex B of OD 4.01 concerning                           Incremental environmental and social costs of the selected alterna-
     the cost-benefit analysis of Project               tive were described in the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project
     alternatives.                                      economic analysis (PAD, Annex 4, Part I) and their impacts on the net
                                                        present value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) of the country were
                                                        assessed through a sensitivity analysis.

                                                        Action: The Project is being implemented based on the preferred
                                                        alternative presented in the 1999 EA/EMP and in the PAD approved by
                                                        the Board in June 2000. Management will also request the opportunity
                                                        for dialogue with the Inspection Panel to exchange views on methodolo-
                                                        gies for comparison of alternatives used in the Project.
11.  Institutional Capacity. It was         8, 78- 4.01 Comments: Management recognized that the GOC was not equipped
     clear to the Panel that the CTNSC,     81          with adequate institutions, appropriate laws, regulations or
     which up to January 2002 had only                  environmental standards to manage and monitor a project of this
     one field staff and one executive                  magnitude and complexity. Management believes that the Petroleum
     staff, is not yet in a position to                 Sector Management Capacity-Building Project satisfies the requirements
     execute its mandate. The Panel                     of OD 4.01 paragraph 12 and was designed so as to equip Chad with
     recognizes the lack of human and                   adequate capacity to monitor compliance with environmental and safety
     institutional capacity at the national             norms and standards by the oil industry in general and the pipeline
     level to manage and monitor                        operator in particular. For instance, this Project comprises: (i) activities at
     projects of this magnitude and                     the oil field level (Doba) and at the national level to address petroleum-
     complexity and recognizes                          related issues; and (ii) the FACIL, which among other objectives, will
     Management's significantly                         also strengthen the capacity of local communities to invest in and
     increased efforts to improve the                   manage infrastructure in the oil field region. Prior to Project
     situation on the ground. In the light              effectiveness, additional assessment of local capacity was conducted
     of the above, however, the Panel                   and needs for further strengthening assessed.
     finds that Management is not in                         Management acknowledges that the pace of capacity-building in
     compliance with the institutional                  Chad has been slow. However, significant progress has been made re-
     capacity requirements of OD 4.01,                  cently. Since January 2002, almost all of the positions envisaged for
     particularly in respect to CTNSC.                  CTNSC have been filled. There are now seven professional staff at
                                                        headquarters, including the director, a procurement specialist, an ac-
                                                        countant and a monitoring specialist. CTNSC has recruited twelve addi-
                                                        tional, professional field staff, in socio-economics, environment and
                                                        health. Other actions include operationalization of the environmental
                                                        management and monitoring system; completion of a socio-demographic
                                                        survey of the oil producing region; staff training; and procurement of
                                                        equipment.
                                                             Capacity-building activities are being carried out through coopera-
                                                        tion among the stakeholders involved, including CTNSC, TOTCO, the
                                                            25

   Chad
No.   Finding                                Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                             Para   icy
                                                         Consortium and civil society organizations. Bi-weekly meetings are held
                                                         to: follow up on implementation and discuss Project risks and mitigation
                                                         measures; share information; and formulate procedures to address
                                                         needs for rapid intervention, safety, security and compensation.
                                                              In the second half of 2001, Management authorized an increase of
                                                         supervision intensity to monthly field visits. However, in the light of this
                                                         supervision and reports of the IAG and ECMG, Management decided by
                                                         year's end to move a full time supervision team to the field to support
                                                         GOC capacity-building initiatives.
                                                              In March 2002, Management appointed a senior Program Coordina-
                                                         tor in charge of the cluster of oil-related Projects, who arrived in Chad in
                                                         April 2002. A second expert appointed by IFC also joined the Chad
                                                         Country Office in March 2002 with oversight responsibilities for strength-
                                                         ening the SME sector, including supervision of the recently approved
                                                         IDF Grant to the Chamber of Commerce. These two experts are sup-
                                                         ported from Bank headquarters by another senior staff member and, in
                                                         N'Djamena, by a social scientist in charge of the relationship and com-
                                                         munication with civil society, and a senior operations specialist responsi-
                                                         ble for following up on procurement.
                                                              As a part of the new supervision arrangement, joint Bank/IFC teams
                                                         were also established in June 2002 to further strengthen supervision of
                                                         social and environmental aspects. This intensified supervision effort has
                                                         already improved many aspects of implementation. Implementing capac-
                                                         ity-building, however, must remain the responsibility of the GOC.

                                                         Action: Management has strengthened its field presence in Chad and
                                                         will provide continued monitoring and supervision on a regular basis
                                                         from both Bank headquarters and its field offices to ensure that progress
                                                         in capacity-building is sustained.
12.   Overall note on compliance:            9, 82-      Comment: Management acknowledges the overall finding that the Pe-
      The Panel notes the substantial        83          troleum Development and Pipeline Project is noteworthy for its approach
      effort the Consortium and two host                 to environmental management and that the 1999 EA/EMP represents an
      Governments have shown in the                      exceptional effort to address the challenges associated with environ-
      preparation of the 19-volume                       mental management of a complex project in a challenging physical and
      Environmental Management Plan.                     political environment.
      Despite the shortcomings to which
      we have drawn attention, the Chad                  Action: Management is committed to monitor appropriate implementa-
      Project, in terms of other similar oil             tion of the 1999 EA/EMP and to periodic independent monitoring through
      and gas projects, is noteworthy for                the ECMG and the IAG.
      implementing a practical, `hands-
      on' approach to environmental
      management. The EMP reflects an
      exceptional effort to address the
      challenges associated with
      environmental management of a
      complex project in a challenging
      physical and political environment.
13.   Oil Spills. [T]he Panel finds that     10.1,  4.01 Comment: The preliminary Oil Spill Response Plan in the 1999 EA/EMP
      the overall preparatory steps          89-92       was finalized as the General Oil Spill Response Plan, dated September
      undertaken by the Consortium so                    1999, which was disclosed in country and through the Bank InfoShop
      far, and the existing obligations set              (October 15, 1999). EEPCI and TOTCO are responsible for its imple-
      forth in the relevant Project                      mentation. Under the General Oil Spill Response Plan, two ASOSRPs
      documents suggest that                             for Chad also must be prepared by TOTCO and the EEPCI. The 1999
      Management is in compliance with                   EA/EMP provides that the ASOSRPs are to be ready six months (180)
      the provisions of OD 4.01 related                  days before first oil. The Consortium agreed with IFC and the private
      to assessment and management                       lenders that the draft ASOSRP would be made public in country and at
      in the event of an oil spill. The                  the Bank InfoShop 180 days prior to first oil and shall be subject to public
      Panel would observe, however,                      consultation. The final ASOSRPs must be provided to the Bank, IFC and
      that it is imperative for                          the private lenders at least ninety days before first oil. Such final
      Management to monitor and                          ASOSRPs shall be verified by an independent expert.
      ensure that all commitments by the                      Management is closely monitoring progress on the preparation of
      relevant parties, in particular the                the ASOSRPs and, as part of the Petroleum Section Management Ca-
      complementary oil spill response                   pacity-Building Project, of an NOSRP, which the GOC is developing.
      plan to be developed by CTNSC,                     Like the ASOSRPs and within the same time frame, the NOSRP shall be
      are implemented in their entirety                  subject to independent expert verification, disclosure in country and at
                                                             26

                                                                                      Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                                Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                            Para    icy
     and on a timely basis. In the                       the Bank InfoShop, and review by the Bank.
     Panel's view Management must                             During the review period, consultations will be held with civil society
     require that the Area Specific Oil                  and affected stakeholders, as well as a campaign of awareness raising
     Spill Response Plans reflect                        and education on oil spill risk and remedial measures in the areas cov-
     adequate consultation with                          ered by the ASOSRPs. Training on oil spill response has already been
     affected stakeholders and civil                     implemented for staff of EEPCI, TOTCO and GOC staff in charge of
     society within the geographical                     monitoring the implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP.
     area covered by each plan.
                                                         Action: Through its own supervision efforts and the independent moni-
                                                         toring of the ECMG and the IAG, Management is continuously monitor-
                                                         ing progress in preparation of sound NOSRP and ASOSRPs, consistent
                                                         with the standards of IPIECA and the 1999 EA/EMP. Management will
                                                         follow up to ensure that disclosure and consultation are carried out ap-
                                                         propriately.
14.  Regional Water Contamination.          10.2.1, 4.01 Comment: The 1999 EA/EMP requires that water monitoring wells be
     Although the Consortium has            99           installed and that a water monitoring program be established to monitor
     incorporated a number of                            Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project impacts on local potable
     mitigation measures in the Project                  water supplies in the oil field. The EA Executive Summary and Update,
     design to avoid contamination of                    pages 7-6 to 7-7, lays out the scenarios for the ASOSRPs. These
     regional water supplies, the                        include various scenarios located within the drainage area of Lake Chad
     institutional mechanism for                         with potential international waterway implications. The NOSRP will also
     regional water management has                       take into account the Lake Chad Basin.
     not been developed to a similar                          The RDP is expected to incorporate concerns regarding regional
     extent. In the Panel's view, it is                  water management. As stated in the 1999 framework RDP contained in
     imperative that Management                          the 1999 EA/EMP (pp. 13, 19), provision of clean drinking water will be
     ensures that the Regional                           critical. Provision of safe and clean water is also expected to emerge as
     Development Plan, and those                         a priority need during the participatory consultations for the RDP as it
     responsible for its implementation,                 has in the FACIL Cadre de Développement Régional de la zone
     give priority to the provision of safe              pétrolière.
     and clean water to those living in
     the Project area. It is also                        Action: The RDP will incorporate concerns regarding regional water
     imperative that such Area Specific                  management, including provision of clean drinking water. ASOSRPs will
     Oil Spill Plans contain a review of                 contain scenarios located in the drainage area of Lake Chad. Manage-
     the response to a spill to                          ment is committed to continued monitoring through its own supervision
     watercourses that form part of the                  efforts and the independent monitoring of the ECMG and the IAG.
     watershed of Lake Chad.
15.  Local Potable Water                    10.2.2, 4.01 Comment: See response to Comment 14.
     Contamination. In the Panel's          102
     view, it is imperative that
     Management ensure that a priority
     of the RDP, and those responsible
     for its implementation, be to
     provide safe and clean water to
     those living in the Project area.
16.  Contamination of                       10.2.3, 4.01 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of no non-
     Surface/Groundwater from               104          compliance. The April-May 2002 ECMG Report, pages 32 to 35 (avail-
     Drilling. Given the current status                  able on the IFC and Bank websites in English and French) describes
     of Project implementation, and the                  what was planned, what has been done and what will be done. It indi-
     cyclical nature of water shortages                  cates that monitoring is ongoing and improving. It notes the impacts of
     and availability in southern Chad,                  potential pollution sources and activities related to availability of water
     the Panel was unable to find any                    and its quality, including drilling impacts.
     conclusive evidence that
     Management is in violation of OD                    Action: Management is committed to continued monitoring through its
     4.01 in connection with this issue.                 own supervision efforts and the independent monitoring of the ECMG
     In the Panel's view, however, it                    and the IAG.
     requires continuing observation
     and monitoring by Management,
     perhaps through the IAG.




                                                             27

   Chad
No.   Finding                               Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                            Para   icy
17.   Air Pollution. Although the Panel     10.3,  4.01 Comment: Schedule 7 of the Chad Loan Agreement for the Petroleum
      is satisfied that the probability of  107         Development and Pipeline Project describes in detail the stack and am-
      future harm due to air pollution is               bient air emission standards, how they should be measured and how
      low, it should be the object of                   frequently. Schedule 7 specifies detailed monitoring procedures for all
      periodic monitoring by                            Project equipment that emits pollutants into the atmosphere.
      Management.
                                                        Action: Management is committed to continued monitoring through its
                                                        own supervision efforts and the independent monitoring of the ECMG
                                                        and the IAG.
18.   Natural Habitats. At the current      11,    4.04 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
      stage of Project implementation,      114         Inspection Panel.
      the Panel finds Management in
      compliance with the provisions of                 Action: No action required.
      OP/BP 4.04.
19.   Forestry. [T]he Panel is satisfied    12,    4.36 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
      that Management is in compliance      118         Inspection Panel.
      with the provisions of OP 4.36.
                                                        Action: No action required.
20.   Pest Management. [T]he Panel          13,    4.09 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
      finds that Management is in           122         Inspection Panel.
      compliance with the relevant
      provisions of OP 4.09.                            Action: No action required.
21.   Ogoniland Comparison. [T]he           14,         Comment: Management notes the finding concerning the differences
      Panel concludes that the two          123-        between the situation in Ogoniland, Nigeria and that of the Chad-
      situations are profoundly distinct.   124         Cameroon Pipeline. Management agrees that there are distinct differ-
      In the Panel's view, however, it is               ences in technology and procedures concerning control of environmental
      imperative that the environmental                 pollution and protection of the environment.
      management actions in the 1999
      EMP are fully implemented and                     Action: No additional action required. Management is committed to con-
      that Management ensures periodic                  tinued monitoring through its own supervision efforts and the independ-
      independent monitoring to assess                  ent monitoring of the ECMG and the IAG.
      the success of these actions.
22.   Consultation. [I]t is evident that,   15.1,  4.01 Comment: Management accepts the finding that the Bank has made
      at least prior to 1997, the           135-        significant efforts to achieve compliance with consultation requirements
      consultations were conducted in       136         and acknowledges the Panel's commendation in this regard.
      the presence of security forces,                       The consultation process has known three phases, Phase I - 1993­
      which is incompatible with Bank's                 1997: Initiation of Dialogue; Phase II ­ 1997­1999: Consolidation Phase;
      policy requirements. At the same                  Phase III ­ post-1999: Broadening, Deepening and Upscaling.
      time, the Panel recognizes that,                       The 1997 Draft EA was released in October and discussions were
      since 1999, Management has                        carried out between the Bank Group, the Consortium and the GOC on
      made significant efforts to achieve               Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project impacts and mitigation
      compliance with paragraph 19 of                   planning. After the 1997 Draft EA was publicly disclosed, the consulta-
      OD 4.01, encouraging frequent                     tion process improved both as a result of the availability of the environ-
      consultations with local                          mental documentation and of the subsiding tensions in the Project area
      communities and civil society in an               as political stability improved, especially after 1998. Also, as a result of
      environment more conducive to an                  Bank comments on the 1997 Draft EA, the consultation process was
      open exchange. In these                           reviewed and strengthened. An extensive public information and consul-
      circumstances, the Panel would                    tation campaign was launched during the summer of 1997, which in-
      commend these efforts and urge                    cluded a Public Information Campaign in two rounds. A concrete output
      that they continue.                               of the consultation process is the rapid growth in civil society organiza-
                                                        tions. There has also been a shift of focus from narrowly defined impact
                                                        mitigation to the broader issue of regional development. Civil society
                                                        organizations are involved in the definition and operation of the FACIL
                                                        and in the elaboration of the RDP.
                                                             The broad consultation process undertaken for the Project was un-
                                                        precedented in Chad and opened the way for increased civil society par-
                                                        ticipation in public debates over broad policy issues such as petroleum
                                                        revenue management, governance, and social and environmental is-
                                                        sues. This participation is today consolidated in the context of the PRSP
                                                        process and in the formal representation of civil society in several official
                                                        bodies, such as the Steering Committee for the ongoing PRSP and the
                                                        PROCC.
                                                             Management will continue to encourage consultation with local
                                                        communities and civil society. Consultation with affected people and

                                                            28

                                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                               Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                           Para   icy
                                                        local civil society groups has dealt with compensation (individual and
                                                        community) and social investments, particularly in the context of FACIL.
                                                             The Consortium has taken proactive steps to improve its
                                                        communication and outreach efforts, e.g., in Chad, hiring of public
                                                        relations experts to assist with and improve dissemination of information
                                                        to the public and adding a new Local Community Contact in the oil field
                                                        area to liaise with herders. In the first quarter of 2002, the Consortium
                                                        reported that 159 consultation sessions were held in Chad. Efforts have
                                                        been made to involve NGOs in the implementation of certain aspects of
                                                        the Project. The Consortium publishes a newsletter in Chad that will be
                                                        disseminated more widely. Reading rooms have also been reopened in
                                                        several locations. In collaboration with CTNSC, a periodic consultation
                                                        system with civil society has been put in place. The second round of
                                                        consultations took place in Doba on April 29 and 30, 2002.
                                                             The IAG has identified a "need to create a permanent framework for
                                                        dialogue between the contracting parties and the stakeholders,"
                                                        overseen by the CNPD.

                                                        Action: Management will continue the consultation efforts and will
                                                        pursue the establishment of a permanent framework for dialogue. In
                                                        November 2001, the Bank engaged a communications expert to assist
                                                        the GOC; discussions are focusing on upgrading radio station facilities in
                                                        southern Chad and organizing regular Information Caravans to the
                                                        villages in the Project area.
23.  Disclosure. The Panel concludes       15.2,  17.50 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
     that adequate and timely release                   Inspection Panel.
     of documents was the norm rather
     than the exception in the context of               Action: No action required.
     the Pipeline Project. The Panel
     finds, therefore, that Management
     has complied with BP 17.50 on
     Disclosure of Operational
     Information.
     Social Compliance
24.  Expropriation. It is the Panel's      17.1,  4.30  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
     view that Esso's policy of            159,         Inspection Panel.
     compensating the community            162
     rather than the individual for fallow              Action: No action required.
     land is a sensible one. The Panel
     finds Management in compliance
     with Paragraph 14 through 17 of
     OD 4.30 on Involuntary
     Resettlement with regards to
     valuation of, and compensation
     for, lost assets including land
     tenure issues.
25.  General Issues of                     17.3,  4.30  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance to
     Compensation. In the Panel's          175-         date.
     view the compensation and             178;
     implementation processes were         183;         Action: Management is committed to continued monitoring of the overall
     fair, transparent, and efficient. It  193          resettlement process through its own supervision efforts and the
     was able to confirm that a 12-step                 independent monitoring of the ECMG and the IAG.
     land acquisition procedure was
     followed. The Panel found that
     these procedures were properly
     carried out. The Panel did not find
     any specific cases of improper or
     inadequate compensation to
     individual requesters for land,
     houses, or trees.
     Mango Tree Grievance
     Procedure. After reviewing the
     negotiations concerning
     compensation for mango trees, the

                                                            29

   Chad
No.   Finding                                Sec/  Pol-  Comment / Action
                                             Para  icy
      Panel concludes that there has
      been no violation of paragraph 17
      (c) of OD 4.30 in respect of
      grievance procedures.
            After a careful review of the
      available evidence, the Panel is
      satisfied that Management is so far
      in compliance with the provisions
      of OD 4.30 concerning
      compensation. The Panel,
      however, views the monitoring of
      the overall resettlement process as
      critical to ensure continuing
      compliance with the requirements
      of this policy.
26.   Indigenous Peoples. [T]he Panel        18,   4.20  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding that the Panel is in
      concludes that OD 4.20 is not          194-        agreement that OD 4.20 is inapplicable to the Project in Chad.
      applicable to the present case.        202
                                                         Action: No action required.
27.   Cultural Property. The Panel           19,   11.03 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
      finds that Management is in            209         Inspection Panel.
      compliance with OPN 11.03 on
      Management of Cultural Property.                   Action: No action required.
28.   Governance and Human Rights.           20,         Comment:
      It is not within the Panel's mandate   210-        A. On Human Rights Issues. Management wishes to note, as does the
      to assess the status of governance     217         Panel's Report, that despite the references in the Request to directives
      and human rights in Chad [...]                     on "respect for human rights," the Bank has no such directives.
      However, the Panel felt obliged to                 Management also notes that in its Report, para. 215, the Panel states
      examine whether the issues of                      that "[it] is not within the Panel's mandate to assess the status of
      proper governance or human                         governance and human rights in Chad in general or in isolation, and the
      rights violations in Chad were such                Panel acknowledges that there are several institutions, (including UN
      as to impede the implementation                    bodies), specifically in charge of the subject. However, the Panel felt
      of the Project in a manner                         obliged to examine whether the issue of proper governance or human
      compatible with the Bank's                         rights violations in Chad were such as to impede the implementation of
      policies. [...T]he Panel observes                  the Project in a manner compatible with the Bank's policies." In
      that the situation is far from ideal.              conclusion, with respect to this issue, the Panel finds that "the situation
      It raises questions about                          in Chad is far from ideal, and raises questions about compliance with
      compliance with Bank policies, in                  Bank policies, in particular those that relate to informed and open
      particular those that relate to                    consultation, and it warrants renewed monitoring by the Bank."
      informed and open consultation,                         Management has been very keen to ensure that there was informed
      and it warrants renewed                            and open consultation during the design and preparation of the
      monitoring by the Bank.                            Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project. An important consultation
                                                         process took place to: (i) share Project information with the affected
                                                         communities; (ii) determine Project needs and establish communities'
                                                         entitlement and compensation; (iii) agree on a framework for mitigating
                                                         adverse impacts; and (iv) develop an RDP for the Project-related areas.
                                                         During the consultation process, opportunities have been given to the
                                                         affected communities to make their views known to the Project sponsors
                                                         and the GOC. Information has been disseminated in local languages
                                                         and, where necessary, Bank staff have been involved in improving the
                                                         quality of the consultation process, including building capacity for
                                                         constructive engagement of local NGOs.
                                                              A key focus of the work of the IAG has been the need for structured,
                                                         sustained communication among all parties. The IAG observed in its July
                                                         Report (Report of Visit to Chad, June 3 to 17, 2002) that the anticipated
                                                         "growth of powers transferred to the local level as part of regionalization
                                                         should give a stronger voice to the populations most directly concerned
                                                         by the project."
                                                              The Panel states in para. 136 of its Report, "Since 1999,
                                                         Management has made significant efforts to achieve compliance with
                                                         paragraph 19 of OD 4.01, encouraging frequent consultations with local
                                                         communities and civil society in an environment more conducive to an
                                                         open exchange." As the Panel suggests, Management intends to
                                                         continue to monitor and to promote activities that would ensure that
                                                         meaningful dialogue with civil society takes place.
                                                            30

                                                                                       Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                               Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                           Para    icy
                                                         B. On Governance. The Requesters allege the Bank has not complied
                                                         with directives on governance. Management notes that, although there is
                                                         no specific Bank policy or directive on governance as such, a number of
                                                         its policies or directives cover various aspects of good governance, such
                                                         as consultation, transparency, anti-corruption, legal frameworks, and
                                                         institutional capacity (IBRD, Governance: The World Bank's Experience,
                                                         1994). Typically, governance issues are addressed in the preparation of
                                                         the CAS. For Chad, the Interim CAS highlights strongly the need to pro-
                                                         mote good governance and the CAS under preparation focuses on the
                                                         same issue. In addition, in Chad, the Bank has supported, through the
                                                         Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) IV approved by the Board on De-
                                                         cember 18, 2001, a reform program focused on: (i) improved govern-
                                                         ance by the adoption and implementation of a governance strategy and
                                                         action plan; (ii) more transparent, accountable and efficient use of public
                                                         resources for poverty reduction through the reform of: (a) the budget
                                                         cycle; (b) public procurement including anti-corruption measures; and (c)
                                                         the civil service; and (iii) poverty reduction in the rural areas through
                                                         measures to strengthen cotton farmers' associations. This assistance is
                                                         being furthered through the proposed SAC V, which is expected to be
                                                         presented to the Board in October 2002.

                                                         Action: Management will continue the consultation efforts and will
                                                         pursue the establishment of a permanent framework for dialogue. In
                                                         November 2001, the Bank engaged a communications expert to assist
                                                         the GOC; discussions are focusing on upgrading radio station facilities in
                                                         southern Chad and organizing regular Information Caravans to the
                                                         villages in the Project area.
     Economic Evaluation
29.  Pipeline Project - Alternatives.      21.1.1, 10.04 Comment: Feasible Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project
     [T]he discussion in the PAD's         227-          alternatives have been assessed in detail and quantified by the
     Annex 4 of alternatives for oil field 230           Consortium to find the optimal technical and financial alternative. These
     development and oil transportation                  alternatives relate to: (i) which oil fields to develop and the sequence of
     is limited to two key paragraphs.                   development of these fields; and (ii) what transportation system should
     Moreover, they contain no                           be used to export the oil. These assessments by the private sector have
     quantitative economic evidence in                   involved quantified economic comparisons using discounted cash-flow
     support of the findings reported. In                techniques. The assessments are proprietary and confidential and
     the Panel's view, this is                           therefore the quantitative evidence could not be included in the PAD.
     inconsistent with the emphasis in                        For the transportation of oil the following options were quantified:
     paragraph 3 of OP 10.04, which                           ·    Road from Komé to N'Gaoundéré plus rail from N'Gaoundere to
     states that "Consideration of                                 Douala;
     alternatives is one of the most                          ·    Pipeline from Komé to N'Gaoundéré plus rail from there to
     important features of proper                                  Douala; and
     project analysis throughout the                          ·    Pipeline from Komé to Douala.
     project cycle." In this respect,                         The pipeline plus rail option was found to have merit, if recoverable
     therefore, the Panel finds                          oil was less than 250 million barrels and oil production levels were
     Management not in compliance                        between 15,000 to 50,000 barrels per day. On the other hand, the road
     with OP 10.04.                                      plus rail option was not cost competitive. The pipeline option was found
                                                         to be the lowest cost means of transporting the Chadian crude to
                                                         international markets, if recoverable reserves had a threshold of 250
                                                         million barrels and a oil production level of somewhat above 50,000
                                                         barrels per day. Reserves at Doba are estimated at 917 million barrels,
                                                         with production of oil to be about 80,000 barrels per day.
                                                              Concerning oil transport, additional options were considered in a
                                                         preliminary way, e.g., transport via road from Komé to Garoua,
                                                         Cameroon and then barge to Port Harcourt, Nigeria; and pipeline from
                                                         Chad to Sudan and via the Sudanese pipeline to the Red Sea. These
                                                         options were discounted because of lack of feasibility, long distance
                                                         and/or security issues and were dropped without detailed or quantified
                                                         study.
                                                              Regarding oil field development, specific locations for each of the
                                                         field components were selected and configured in a cost-effective
                                                         manner. Regarding clustering of wells, alternative configurations and
                                                         layouts were assessed, including the use of vertical and deviated wells.
                                                         As indicated in the 1999 EA/EMP, vertical wells, with some horizontal

                                                             31

   Chad
No.   Finding                              Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                           Para    icy
                                                         wells, were the preferred alternative.

                                                         Action: No action envisaged. The Petroleum Development and Pipeline
                                                         Project is being implemented based on the preferred alternative
                                                         presented in the PAD approved by the Board in June 2000.
30.   Pipeline Project - ERR for Chad.     21.1.2,       Comment: Management agrees that the adequacy of revenue allocation
      The Panel was struck by the          232-          to Chad is an important issue. Management, however, also wishes to
      estimated financial returns to Chad  236           note that this is not an issue that relates to failure of the Bank to follow
      over a 28-year period, having                      its operational policies and procedures.
      regard to the magnitude of the                           Revenue allocation was subject to protracted negotiation. The
      Project, and is concerned that it                  Convention for Exploration, Exploitation and Transportation of
      was unable to find any analysis                    Hydrocarbons in Chad dates from December 1988. It was successively
      justifying the allocation of                       amended in May 1993, March 1997 and October 1999 to set out the
      revenues between Chad and the                      terms of the concession among the Consortium members and the GOC.
      Consortium. [...]The PAD's Annex                   The Bank is not a party to agreements between a private company and
      4 cited above does not specify the                 the government that contain confidential information. Nevertheless, the
      studies that were undertaken, nor                  Bank made certain that Chad hired reputable, independent and
      does it fully satisfy the assertion                experienced legal, technical and financial experts by making available to
      that the agreements signed by                      Chad USD3.0 million in PPF advances and a Japanese grant of USD1.0
      Chad were "reasonable." [...]                      million. Internationally recognized firms from Canada, France and the
      While the Panel recognizes that                    United States were used. In addition, Bank staff had access to the
      Management sought to ensure that                   confidential models used to project future oil flows, projected prices, and
      Chad had access to reputable                       anticipated revenues accruing to the parties, for the purpose of
      legal and financial services in its                estimating future revenues under various scenarios and their potential
      negotiations with the Consortium,                  impacts on the economy as well as contributions to development
      it remains concerned about the                     investments in Chad.
      adequacy of the allocation of                            The Bank undertook a study in 1997--a copy of which was supplied
      revenues to Chad.                                  to the Inspection Panel--to provide an independent analysis, advise
                                                         Management on the reasonableness of the agreement, and outline
                                                         areas that might warrant further consultant advice to GOC. The study
                                                         concluded that the agreement provides an acceptable share of revenues
                                                         for the GOC and a reasonable rate of return for the Consortium. In the
                                                         base case outlined in the PAD (petroleum reserves of 917 million
                                                         barrels, USD15.25/bbl), the rate of return to the Consortium is 18
                                                         percent, which is not excessive, given the country risks. If more
                                                         petroleum is found in the area and pumped through the pipeline or if
                                                         international prices for petroleum products go up, the GOC's "take"
                                                         increases.

                                                         Action: No action required.
31.   Pipeline Project - Economic          21.1.3, 10.04 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding that it is broadly in
      Analysis of Base Case Scenario.      237-          compliance with OP 10.04, para. 6.
      Although the analysis reports        247
      switching values for four key                      Switching Value: In the Base Case Scenario, which assumes 917 million
      variables (capital expenditures,                   barrels of developed reserves and a Brent oil price of USD15.25/bbl,
      operating costs, crude sales                       Chad's rate of return is estimated to be 70 percent and that of the
      revenue (price) and crude sales                    Consortium 18 percent. The switching values for Chad--the value at
      revenue (quantity)) in relation to                 which Chad's NPV of benefits becomes zero--are the following: oil price
      the economics of the Project as a                  of USD3.51/bbl or reserves at 271 million barrels. In other words the
      whole, none is reported for the                    Brent price of oil would have to fall to USD3.51/bbl or proven reserves to
      benefits to Chad. Although it can                  271 million barrels for the Project to become economically unattractive to
      be reasonably argued that this is                  Chad, both cases being highly unlikely.
      not strictly a matter of compliance
      with OP 10.04 (since the switching                 Monitoring and Auditing of Oil Production and Revenue Generated: First
      values are reported for the whole                  oil is expected by end 2003. Chad has hired independent auditors for the
      Project), in the Panel's view it                   Consortium's accounts. The audit for the 1996-1998 period is completed
      would have been appropriate and                    and another is ongoing for fiscal year 1999-2000. Under the Petroleum
      valuable to supply them.                           Sector Management Capacity-Building Project, three economists are
           The Petroleum Sector                          being trained on oil revenue projections and a training program for the
      Management Capacity-Building                       staff of the Petroleum Directorate is under preparation. The Consortium
      Project makes provision for                        is also providing technical training to Chadians who will be on site to
      technical assistance to place Chad                 monitor oil being pumped into the pipeline and onto cargo ships at the
      in a position where it can monitor                 other end of the pipeline. The Petroleum Directorate is recruiting ten new
      and audit both the oil produced                    Chadian controllers, who will be trained during October-December 2002.
      and the revenue generated by the                   They will monitor oil production and pipeline flows from the Doba oil field
                                                             32

                                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                             Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                         Para    icy
     Pipeline Project. In the Panel's                  to the Kribi terminal. The Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-
     view it is essential that this be                 Building Project also provides resources for hiring international experts
     made operational before oil                       that may be needed for this purpose.
     production commences and
     revenues begin to flow.                           Action: Management will continue to monitor implementation of the
     The Panel finds that the analysis                 Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project, including
     reported in Annex 4 (and                          monitoring of the training program for staff of the Petroleum Directorate
     elsewhere in the PAD) is broadly                  and recruitment of 10 Chadian controllers. Management will also follow
     in compliance with paragraph 6 of                 up on the potential need to hire international experts under the
     OP 10.04 concerning risk.                         Capacity-Building Project.
32.  Pipeline Project - Other            21.1.4, 10.04 Comment: OP 10.04 requires that "the expected present value of the
     Economic Benefits. In the           248-          project's net benefits must be higher than or equal to the expected NPV
     Panel's view [...] full compliance  249           of mutually exclusive project alternatives." While confident that other
     with OP 10.04 required a more                     benefits would accrue to Chad from the Project, given uncertainty
     detailed examination of the `other                concerning the magnitude of such benefits at the time of appraisal,
     economic benefits' than was                       Management opted for the most conservative assumption, i.e., that the
     reported in the PAD.                              value of such benefits was zero. In the Base Case Scenario, which
                                                       assumes 917 million barrels of developed reserves and a Brent oil price
                                                       of USD15.25/bbl, Chad's rate of return is high, estimated at 70 percent,
                                                       despite this very conservative assumption.
                                                            Management continues to monitor such benefits as part of Project
                                                       supervision. This is based on direct oil revenues only (royalties,
                                                       upstream income tax, corporate income tax and dividends). There are
                                                       other benefits that have not been incorporated in the rate of return
                                                       calculations. For example, the upgrading of roads and bridges, which
                                                       may be a cost to the Project and Project sponsors, are in fact an
                                                       economic benefit to Chad. The cost of expenditures on infrastructure
                                                       installations and upgrades in Chad are estimated to be as follows:
                                                       ·    Roads/Bridges in Chad (about 175 km): USD 60 million
                                                       ·    Construction of the Mbéré River Bridge: USD10 million
                                                       In addition, as of end March 2002, spending by the contractors in Chad's
                                                       economy for goods and services amounted to USD97 million and as of
                                                       June 2002, 3,654 Chadian workers were employed in the construction
                                                       phase of the Project. There are also schooling and health benefits gen-
                                                       erated by the Project that further increase the economic returns to the
                                                       country.

                                                       Action: Although no action is feasible with respect to the PAD itself,
                                                       Management will continue to monitor and collect data on the economic
                                                       benefits of the Project.
33.  Pipeline Project Global             21.1.8, 10.04 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
     Externalities ­ GHG. There is       254-          Inspection Panel.
     also a discussion of greenhouse     256
     gases [...] The Panel finds that                  Action: No action required.
     Management is in compliance with
     OP 10.04 in respect of its
     treatment of externalities.
34.  Sustainability and Risks            21.2,   10.04 Comment: Management accepts the Inspection Panel's finding that a
                                         257-          more detailed discussion of the risks present in the implementation of
     A. Management of the                262           the Management of the Petroleum Economy and Petroleum Sector
     Petroleum Economy Project­                        Management Capacity-Building Projects should have been included in
     [A] more thorough appraisal of                    the Projects' documentation. In view of this, the institutional risk ratings
     sustainability and risks would have               for both Projects have been revised to "substantial." Management and
     been required in order to ensure                  staff have been acutely aware of the need to rapidly implement meas-
     proper compliance with                            ures in environmental capacity-building and petroleum revenue man-
     paragraphs 5 and 6 of OP 10.04.                   agement, have repeatedly highlighted the risks of slow implementation to
     In this respect, therefore, the                   the GOC, and have intensified supervision, notably by the assignment of
     Panel finds that Management is                    senior staff members to the Chad office, in order to support accelerated
     not in compliance with OP 10.04.                  implementation by the GOC.

                                                       A. Timely implementation of a full-fledged system to monitor oil revenue
                                                       flows, allocate them in accordance with the Petroleum Revenue Man-
                                                       agement Program and spend them efficiently for poverty reduction in
                                                       priority sectors by early 2004 remains a challenge. Management's dia-

                                                          33

   Chad
No.   Finding                                 Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                              Para   icy
                                                           logue with GOC has emphasized that improving economic governance is
                                                           the key element to adequate management of oil and other revenues.
                                                           Following extensive consultations, the GOC's draft PRSP gives even
                                                           more attention to governance issues than did its Interim-PRSP and
                                                           makes improved governance one of five key axes of the PRSP. Improv-
                                                           ing public resource management relies heavily on analytical work, such
                                                           as the PER, prepared as input to the PRSP, and on policy dialogue car-
                                                           ried out under other operations, including SAC IV, as well as on imple-
                                                           mentation of the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project.
                                                                 Management was keenly aware of the importance of timely and
                                                           sustained capacity-building for management of petroleum revenues and,
                                                           for this reason, sought Board approval of the Management of the Petro-
                                                           leum Economy Project some six months prior to approval of the Petro-
                                                           leum Development and Pipeline Project itself. Progress realized to date
                                                           is summarized in the last six-month progress report to the Board. Given
                                                           Management and GOC attention to these issues, key elements of the
                                                           Project are proceeding ahead of the schedule originally envisioned. Most
                                                           importantly, the CCSRP, which was planned to be operational in 2004,
                                                           has been created, its members named, by-laws approved, and first re-
                                                           ports made public. Practical evidence of the CCSRP Board's effective
                                                           operation is its control, including rejection of ineligible expenditures, over
                                                           use of early petroleum revenues (the signing bonus) as foreseen in the
                                                           2002 Budget Law.
      B. Petroleum Sector                     21.2,  10.04 B. With regard to environmental capacity-building, Management believes
      Management Capacity-Building            263-         that a fuller discussion of risks in the Petroleum Sector Management
      Project. Given the identified           265          Capacity-Building Project documentation could have contributed to im-
      weakness in implementation                           proving the early stages of Project implementation. Multi-layered moni-
      capacity in the Ministries of                        toring by the ECMG, the IFC, the Bank and the IAG was designed bear-
      Environment and of Energy and                        ing in mind that national capacity to monitor the Project would take time
      Petroleum, and the importance of                     to develop and would need to be complemented by extraordinary outside
      timely implementation of the rapid                   monitoring from the outset.
      intervention measures, the
      Regional Development Plan and                        Action: Management has intensified supervision, notably by the as-
      the pilot development fund                           signment of senior staff members to the Chad office, and will continue its
      (FACIL), the Panel finds that                        efforts to support accelerated implementation by GOC of measures to
      Management is not in compliance                      build capacity in environment and petroleum revenue management.
      with OP 10.04 in respect of the
      analysis of sustainability and risk
      issues.
      Poverty Reduction
35.   Petroleum Revenue                       22.1,  4.15  Comment: OD 4.15 provides procedures and guidelines for operational
      Management Program ­                    266-         work on poverty reduction, including recommendations on strategies to
      Handling and Allocation of Oil          273          reduce poverty and guidelines on poverty work covered in other Bank
      Revenues. Although the Request                       directives. In its Response to the Request for Inspection in 2001,
      does not explicitly mention OD                       Management highlighted how the Petroleum Development and Pipeline
      4.15 on Poverty Reduction, issues                    Project fit into the Bank's strategy to assist the GOC in alleviating
      related to compliance with this                      poverty.
      policy are addressed in                                    Management took steps with the GOC, before the Project became
      Management's Response.[...] The                      effective, to address poverty reduction issues and strategy in Chad. The
      Revenue Management Program                           GOC developed a "Revised 1998-2005 Orientation Plan," whose
      has detailed rules for the handling                  objective is "to combat poverty and improve the living conditions of its
      and allocation of the oil revenues                   citizens" and an "Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for 2000-
      [...] The Panel recognizes the                       2001," (I-PRSP, July 16, 2000), which was designed to guide "a
      importance of this but, in its view, it              participatory national poverty reduction strategy (NPRS)." Its guiding
      is vital that this be the subject of                 objectives are to: (i) achieve a high level of sustained economic growth;
      continuing monitoring, review and                    (ii) develop human resources through the provision of better access to
      assessment by an independent                         basic social services, health care and social protection; (iii) restore and
      body such as the IAG. [...] The                      safeguard the ecological balance by placing particular emphasis on the
      Pipeline PAD, the Revenue                            environmental problems associated with human activity; and (iv)
      Management Program and the                           continue and consolidate the democratization process of political and
      Guiding Principles provided                          social life. The Bank is assisting the GOC to achieve these objectives
      evidence that suggests an                            through several projects and activities. The Petroleum Revenue
      intention by Management to                           Management Program is a key element in assisting Chad to achieve its
      comply with the broad provisions                     poverty reduction objectives.
      of OD 4.15, along with an                                  The Bank is assisting the GOC to develop long-term economic and
                                                               34

                                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                              Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                          Para   icy
     awareness of the challenges to                   budget management capacity and to ensure that essential capacity
     effectively reduce poverty in Chad.              levels are reached by first oil. This work is expected to generate the
     Nevertheless, the Panel has                      capacity for the budget law of 2004 to: (i) monitor the level of oil
     concerns on whether some                         revenues; (ii) apply these revenues according to the Revenue
     components of OD 4.15 have been                  Management Law through the adequate functioning of the Oil Revenue
     fully met and whether                            Committee; (iii) allocate them in the context of a Medium Term Economic
     Management has succeeded to                      Framework (MTEF) with minimum allocation increases per priority
     put in place sufficient measures to              sector; (iv) spend these revenues in accordance with sectoral
     ensure the sustained delivery of                 expenditure programs linked to performance indicators in priority
     poverty reduction outcomes, and                  sectors; (v) provide a budget of expenditures per region for all priority
     hence future compliance with OD                  sectors except rural development (which is expected in 2005); and (vi)
     4.15.                                            disseminate budgetary documents widely for public scrutiny.
                                                      Implementation of the activities that support these objectives under the
                                                      Management of the Petroleum Economy Project is satisfactory and
                                                      timely, although some crucial elements that fall outside of the Project's
                                                      strict scope are still in progress in the context of the macroeconomic
                                                      dialogue in future adjustment lending.
                                                           Under Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement for the Petroleum
                                                      Development and Pipeline Project, Section 3.01 (f) of the Development
                                                      Credit Agreement (DCA) for the Petroleum Sector Management
                                                      Capacity-Building Project, and Section 3.04 of the DCA for the
                                                      Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, GOC is committed to
                                                      carry out the PRMP. In case of a breach of such commitments,
                                                      Management would enforce its rights under those Agreements.

                                                      Action: Management has intensified supervision of the Project, notably
                                                       by the appointment of senior staff members to the Bank's Chad office,
                                                       and remains committed to supervise and help strengthen monitoring of
                                                       PRMP implementation. Management is also committed to the continued
                                                       monitoring, review and assessment of its implementation by the IAG. In
                                                       addition, Management will continue to pursue the actions that are being
                                                       taken outside the scope of the three Projects to assist GOC to put in
                                                       place long-term economic and budget management capacity.
36.  A. Petroleum Revenue                 22.1,  4.15 Comment: The Panel finds that under the current arrangements (fixed
     Management Program ­ Moving          275         baseline to which oil revenues are added to fund priority sectors), the
     Baseline. To avoid the risk that a               potential rapid growth of non-oil revenues could result in smaller incre-
     priority poverty reduction sector                mental increases in priority sectors relative to potentially larger incre-
     might only receive a small net                   mental increases to other sectors, and suggests using a moving baseline
     increase on the budget of the fiscal             at least for an initial period (i.e., a proportion of the real growth rate in
     year before the first oil revenues,              sectoral expenditures).
     in the Panel's view, it would have                    First, during the next 10-15 years, revenues from oil are expected to
     been appropriate to have an                      increase dramatically faster than non-oil source revenues, even in a
     additional safeguard, such as                    positive growth scenario. Second, concerning the issue of a moving
     specifying a moving baseline, at                 baseline at least for an initial period, since 1998 the portion of total oper-
     least for an initial period.                     ating expenditures allocated to priority sectors has remained the same,
                                                      averaging about 20 percent. Using actual data from 2001 as the baseline
                                                      was an objective and monitorable method of establishing the baseline,
                                                      and considered preferable to making uncertain projections for future
                                                      years. In any case, the proportion of budgetary revenue allocations
                                                      among priority sectors is the prerogative of the GOC. However, as pro-
                                                      vided in paragraph 5(a)(i) of the Petroleum Revenue Management Pro-
                                                      gram, the annual expenditure program for the petroleum revenues pre-
                                                      pared by the GOC will have to be satisfactory to the Bank.

                                                      Action: No action required.
     B. Petroleum Revenue                 22.1,  4.15 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
     Management Program ­                 276         Inspection Panel.
     Hypothecation. Given the risks
     demonstrably associated with                     Action: No action required.
     `windfall' oil revenues, in the
     Panel's view, the decision to
     hypothecate is in compliance with
     OD 4.15.


                                                          35

   Chad
No.   Finding                                 Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                              Para    icy
      C. Petroleum Revenue                    22.1,   4.15 Comment: Chad's essential institutional capacity needs are expected to
      Management Program ­                    279          be in place for the 2004 budget exercise. These needs are: (i) to assess
      Institutional Capabilities and                       the levels of revenue accruing to Chad and to monitor oil revenue flows;
      Monitoring. [T]he Panel's                            (ii) to have appropriate planning and budgeting processes for priority
      investigation revealed serious                       sectors in place; and (iii) to include information on regional allocation of
      concerns about the failure to                        resources in the budget decision making process. Training of staff at the
      develop and strengthen the                           Ministry of Finance is also ongoing. Management is committed to
      institutional capabilities of the                    continuing its support to meet this objective.
      Government of Chad to a level                              With regard to the operation of the oil revenue account, in addition
      where it could begin to monitor the                  to continued monitoring by the IAG, Management intends to continue
      Project effectively before the                       supporting strengthening of the existing operational capacity of CCSRP.
      revenues start to flow. The Panel                    On-site technical assistance is being provided by the US Government.
      noted that the failure to achieve                    The 2002 Budget allocated FCFA 100 million for the functioning of
      this objective raises questions                      CCSRP, which published its 2001 annual report and its first quarterly
      about the ability to realize several                 report for 2002.
      of the other social objectives of the
      Project, in particular poverty                       Action: Management is committed to continued monitoring through its
      reduction. In this regard, it is vital               own supervision efforts, and to the independent monitoring, review and
      that the operations of the                           assessment by the IAG, and will continue to implement measures
      dedicated special account be                         recommended by the IAG as appropriate.
      subject of continuing monitoring,
      review and assessment by an
      independent body such as the
      IAG.
37.   Allocation of Resources to              22.1.1, 4.15 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding that there is no ques-
      Producing Regions. [T]here are          280-         tion of non-compliance with Bank policies and procedures.
      no Bank policies and procedures         285                No targeted studies were carried out to determine whether the
      that directly guide the allocation of                5 percent supplemental regional allocation decided upon by GOC in ac-
      resource revenues to producing                       cordance with Article 212 of the Chadian Constitution was appropriate.
      regions. Consequently there is no                    This Article 212 provides for the principle of such allocation only, and
      question here of non-compliance                      does not refer to any specific percentage. The percentage was defined
      with OD 4.15. [...] However, the                     by GOC through internal consultation and subsequently approved by the
      PADs neither suggest that any                        Chadian Parliament in the context of the Revenue Management Law.
      targeted studies of how to                           Management did ensure that the GOC had ample access to examples of
      determine the appropriate share                      good practice with regard to revenue sharing arrangements (Alaska,
      were carried out, nor do they cite                   Norway, etc.). Management, however, did not intervene in a highly com-
      any review material that                             plex, internal political process.
      underpinned the choice of 5 per                            The producing Region will receive these 5 percent to be managed
      cent. In the Panel's view, this is a                 by "decentralized institutions" in addition to the portion of priority expen-
      matter of great concern. [...] It is                 ditures that will accrue to it through national programs.
      not clear that Management has yet                          The 2002 PER shows regionally disaggregated results for the health
      the information that would enable it                 and education sectors only. In the education sector, delegated credits
      to estimate regional shares of                       and allocations of centrally-purchased goods and services to the Logone
      planned priority sector                              Occidental region amounted to FCFA 49.4 million in 2000-2001, i.e. 7.6
      expenditures from expected oil                       percent of the national total. Total health expenditures in this region in
      revenues, although the ongoing                       2000 were FCFA 1.6 billion, i.e., 10.2 percent of the national total. Under
      public expenditure review process                    the current scenario, where oil revenues are projected to be FCFA 105
      should be enabling it to assemble                    billion, an identical percentage of expenditures is allocated to the Logone
      a clearer picture of existing                        Occidental Region, Education and Health receive FCFA 2.7 billion for
      regional patterns of public                          health and FCFA 2.0 billion for education (excluding labor costs and
      expenditure, and of the nature and                   investment).
      extent of any disparities between                          For all sectors, work is underway to (i) determine what proportion of
      regional shares. In the Panel's                      current pubic expenditures are going to respective regions and (ii) to
      view, this kind of information is                    define which decentralized local structures will manage and administer
      essential if the various                             the additional 5 percent and under which modalities. It is expected that
      stakeholders are to be in a position                 the RDP will help to identify program investment needs.
      to debate and argue for
      appropriate shares in national                       Action: Management and the GOC will continue to carry out work
      income and wealth.                                   underway in the PER to determine regional patterns of public
                                                           expenditure and to define the specific modalities by which decentralized
                                                           local structures will manage the additional 5 percent of petroleum
                                                           revenues reserved for the producing region.




                                                               36

                                                                                         Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                                 Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                             Para    icy
38.  Implementation Delays.                  22.1.2, 4.15 Comment: Management agrees with the Panel that many other ingredi-
     A. Future Compliance. In the            286-         ents are needed to achieve poverty reduction "well beyond budget allo-
     Panel's view, [implementation]          287          cations and public expenditure control." Management also concurs with
     delays threaten to compromise the                    the Panel's findings on the crucial need for rapid capacity-building, in
     delivery of poverty reduction in the                 particular with regard to environmental and social monitoring of the Pe-
     later stages of construction and in                  troleum Development and Pipeline Project (see 38E), and will intensify
     the early stages of operation of the                 its efforts in this direction. Delivering poverty reduction results nationwide
     Pipeline Project. [...] If the problem               through appropriate priority sector spending will take some time, even
     is not addressed urgently, future                    after first oil. Capacity-building to deliver broad-based services and to
     compliance with OD 4.15 will also                    manage petroleum revenues transparently and effectively is progressing.
     be in jeopardy.                                      Management's focus is squarely on achieving poverty alleviation objec-
                                                          tives with the assistance and advice of the IAG and through the partici-
                                                          patory PRSP process. Activities to promote credit provision, market de-
                                                          velopment, and a dynamic private sector are underway, through
                                                          collaboration with other donors and the private sector, with the assis-
                                                          tance of IFC and the Bank. Further strengthening is also being explored.

                                                          Action: Management remains committed to continue its intensified su-
                                                           pervision efforts in the future and to the independent monitoring of the
                                                           ECMG and the IAG.
     B. Community Needs. As the              22.1.2, 4.15 Comment: The Panel notes that within the context of the Petroleum
     PAD noted, during various               289          Development and Pipeline Project, emphasis was placed on achieving
     workshops local communities                          compliance with social and environmental safeguards and on mitigating
     expressed their more immediate                       potential negative impacts of the pipeline's construction and operation on
     needs for (i) rural infrastructure (ii)              directly affected people. Management wishes to note that this was
     credit, (iii) fertilizer and production              among its primary obligations.
     equipment, and (iv) training. At the                      In order to achieve tangible benefits, the FACIL fund was launched
     present rate of progress, it seems                   to support community investments and deliver them in the Project area.
     probable that these priority needs                   Needs for infrastructure, fertilizers and equipment, and credit access can
     will not be fulfilled, at least within               be observed not only in the Project area, but in all regions in Chad.
     an appropriate time frame.                           Increasing the availability of public revenues to address these needs is
                                                          integral to alleviating poverty and improving the lives of the rural poor in
                                                          Chad through the country assistance program.

                                                          Action: Management will follow up on assisting GOC to accelerate
                                                          those measures, such as FACIL, which pertain to the needs of
                                                          communities generated by the Project's indirect impacts.
     C. Entrepreneurs. The Panel was         22.1.2, 4.15 Comments: Most of the income-earning opportunities will come after the
     not provided with evidence to           290          construction phase. The construction period is a short-term opportunity
     suggest that the necessary                           for businesses that have capacity and are in a position to carry out sub-
     capacity-building and support                        contracts. Because of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project's
     mechanisms are in place -- or are                    size, there were high, but somewhat unrealistic expectations for busi-
     being put in place -- to enable                      ness opportunities. Local businesses are mostly organized along infor-
     entrepreneurs to take full                           mal lines and need stronger skills, particularly basic management skills,
     advantage of important income-                       such as contract management, accounting, and negotiation techniques.
     earning opportunities in the region                  Management did acknowledge during Project development that local
     that are likely to exist only during                 businesses had low capacity and that not as many as might hope to do
     the initial construction phase.                      so would win or participate in sub-contracting opportunities. The amount
                                                          of business going to local service and supply contractors is approxi-
                                                          mately USD97 million.
                                                               Building capacity to benefit from medium- to long-term income-
                                                          earning opportunities is the focus of the Chad/Cameroon SME Initiative,
                                                          a joint Bank/IFC effort. Devising a program to address insufficiencies in
                                                          capacity began in late 2000. In hindsight, raising local business capacity
                                                          should have begun sooner. To ensure long-term sustainability and
                                                          greater impact, the initiative seeks to: (i) develop realistic expectations of
                                                          local government officials and the business community; (ii) take into ac-
                                                          count the capacity of local businesses and a relatively short lead time for
                                                          implementation; and (iii) gain cooperation and buy-in from the Consor-
                                                          tium and the EPCs.
                                                               Since January 2002, work on the following SME initiatives has com-
                                                          menced: (i) FINADEV, a micro-finance Bank; (ii) a leasing study; (iii)
                                                          IFC-EIB SME credit facility; (iv) agriculture and livestock marketing pro-
                                                          ject; (v) loan officer SME training; (vi) Support and Training Entrepreneu-
                                                          rial Program (STEP); and (vii) an information campaign.
                                                              37

   Chad
No.   Finding                               Sec/    Pol-  Comment / Action
                                            Para    icy
                                                              In addition to this SME initiative, Management approved an IDF
                                                         Grant of USD460,000 in February 2002 to assist in further capacity-
                                                         building of SMEs. The activities for which the Grant has been given will
                                                         strengthen: (i) the capacity of SMEs to become competitive in the bid-
                                                         ding process; and (ii) the institutional capacity of the Chamber of Com-
                                                         merce to provide quality assistance to local SMEs.

                                                         Action: Management will follow up on assisting GOC to implement pro-
                                                         gress on the SME Initiative and the IDF Grant to ensure that community
                                                         and entrepreneur needs are met.
      D. Commodity Price Increases.         22.1.2, 4.15 Comment: Observations during staff supervision and ECMG missions
      For poor consumers competing          291-         that the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project was contributing to
      with those who have money to          292          price inflation in southwestern Chad have led to additional efforts to ad-
      spend, there can now be an                         dress income-related issues. The Consortium agreed to develop com-
      affordability problem since the                    missaries and to purchase grain for these commissaries from outside the
      prices of the products on which                    Project area. Commissaries are now operational, and their performance
      they depend have risen.                            is being assessed.

                                                         Action: Management will follow up on issues related to price inflation.
      E. Accelerated Action. It is          22.1.2, 4.15 Comments: Management acknowledges that a number of GOC capac-
      neither obvious to the Panel that     293          ity-building activities have been running behind schedule. After a slow
      the Petroleum Sector Management                    start in 2001, due to delayed actions by the GOC on personnel recruit-
      Capacity-Building Project nor the                  ment and procurement matters, implementation gathered momentum
      Petroleum Economy Project have                     during the first half of 2002. In the second half of 2001, Management
      made appropriate provision to                      authorized an increase of supervision intensity to monthly field visits.
      identify and address the above-                    However, in the light of this supervision and reports of the IAG and
      mentioned types of problems in                     ECMB, Management decided by year's end to move a full time supervi-
      the areas touched by the Pipeline                  sion team to the field to support GOC capacity-building initiatives.
      Project's activities. This is despite                   In March 2002, Management appointed a senior Program Coordina-
      their potential to impinge on that                 tor in charge of the cluster of oil-related Projects, who arrived in Chad in
      Project's potential to attain the                  April. A second expert appointed by IFC also joined the Chad Country
      poverty reduction envisaged in OD                  Office in March with oversight responsibilities for strengthening the SME
      4.15. [...T]he Panel finds that the                sector, including supervision of the recently approved IDF Grant to the
      Project is not in compliance with                  Chamber of Commerce. These two experts are supported from Bank
      these aspects of OD 4.15. The                      headquarters by another senior staff member and, in N'Djamena, by a
      Panel, therefore, reiterates its call              social scientist in charge of the relationship and communication with civil
      for Management to accelerate its                   society, and a senior operations specialist responsible for following up
      efforts to improve the situation on                on procurement.
      the ground.                                             As a part of the new supervision arrangement, joint Bank/IFC teams
                                                         were also established in June 2002 to further strengthen supervision of
                                                         environmental and social aspects. This intensified supervision effort has
                                                         already improved many aspects of implementation. Implementing of ca-
                                                         pacity-building, however, must remain the responsibility of the GOC.
                                                              Management believes that these actions as well as those mentioned
                                                         in Comments 38 A-D above to address social issues and implementation
                                                         delays are targeted to help raise the productivity of the poor's physical
                                                         assets, increase their incomes and improve living conditions.

                                                         Action: As per the Panel's suggestion, Management will pursue efforts
                                                         to improve the situation on the ground. IAG and ECMG will also continue
                                                         their regular monitoring and assessment of the Project.
39.   Possible Variations in Oil            22.1.3, 4.15 Comment: Possible variations in oil revenue inflows and their impact
      Revenue Inflows. In the Panel's       294-         were prominent in the discussions with GOC at the time of Petroleum
      view, in order to avoid               298          Development and Pipeline Project preparation. The risks outlined by the
      macroeconomic risks that could                     Panel are referred to in the Project documentation, Loan Agreement,
      jeopardize poverty reduction,                      and in GOC's Letter of Development Policy, and an Agreement of
      Management should have                             Principle was recorded in the documentation. Paragraph 5(a)(iii) of the
      addressed this serious risk to its                 Petroleum Revenue Management Program in Schedule 5 to the Loan
      poverty reduction objectives in a                  Agreement for the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project provides
      more definite manner than the                      that: "Amounts under paragraph 4(b)(i) above which cannot be used for
      statement in the Revenue                           the agreed objectives, or the use of which would jeopardize the
      Management Program that                            Borrower's macroeconomic stability, shall be held in the Special
      "Revenues (...) will be sterilized                 Petroleum Revenue Accounts, under arrangements to be agreed upon
      under arrangements acceptable to                   by the Bank, for their subsequent use in financing priority poverty
      the Bank." In the light of this, the               reduction sectors referred to in paragraph 4(b)(i) above." The Panel has
                                                             38

                                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation
No.  Finding                             Sec/   Pol-  Comment / Action
                                         Para   icy
     Panel finds that Management is                  accurately noted that arrangements for sterilization are not included in
     not in compliance with the                      the PRMP beyond a simple principle. Agreement could not be obtained
     provisions of OD 4.15 concerning                on such modalities at the time of Project preparation in the light of the
     risk analysis and institutional                 uncertainty of Project approval and effective realization.
     design.
                                                     Action: Together with the IMF, Management is currently discussing with
                                                     GOC the modalities that would apply to the sterilization of unused funds
                                                     held for future allocation to priority sectors.
     Monitoring and Supervision
40.  Monitoring and Supervision.         23.1,       Comments: In addition to its own strengthening of Project supervision
     Earlier on, the Panel had           308         and monitoring capacity (see Comment 38E), Management notes the
     expressed its concern about                     Panel's satisfaction with the strong external Project monitoring capacity
     delays in establishing the local                in the form of the IAG and ECMG. Like the Panel, Management also
     capacity required to effectively                believes that this function should be sustained as long as necessary.
     monitor the Project, which could
     compromise its long-term                        Action: IDA is seeking replenishment of the Trust Fund to finance the
     sustainability. At the same time,               work of the IAG. The ECMG will remain in place to monitor the Project
     the Panel wishes to express its                 four to five times per year during construction and a minimum of once
     satisfaction that Management has                per year during the 13-year life of the loan.
     established a strong external
     Project monitoring capacity in the
     form of the IAG and the ECMG.
     Under the circumstances
     surrounding the Project, they
     clearly have a very important role
     to play. The Panel would urge the
     Board to ensure that this function
     is sustained for as long as is
     necessary and certainly well
     beyond disbursement of the loans
     in question.




                                                         39

