Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7301-POL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED HARD COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 280.13 MILLION (US$ 300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
May 18, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective May 14, 1999)
Currency Unit = Zloty (PLN)
3.93 PLN = US$ 1
US$1 = 0.2545 PLN
Weights and Measures
Metric System
1 ton = 1000 kg
1 kg=2.205 lbs
Poland Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Energy Sector Leader: Henk Busz
Team Leader: John Strongman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARA                 -  Amsterdam/Rotterdam/Antwerp
BPZ                 -  Vocational Assistance Office
CAS                 -  Country Assistance Strategy
DFID                -  Department for International Development
ECA                 -  Europe and Central Asia
EBRD                -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU                  -  European Union
GAP                 -  Mining Labor Agency
GDP                 -  Gross Domestic Product
GJ                  -  Giga Joule
IFC                 -  International Finance Corporation
IMCSC               -  Inter Ministerial Coal Steering Committee
LIBOR               -  London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
LSP                 - Letter of Sector Policy
MoE                 - Ministry of Economy
MoEP                -  Ministry of Environmental Protection
MoF                 -  Ministry of Finance
MoLSP               -  Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MoST                -  Ministry of State Treasury
MSPs                -  Miners Social Packages
NGO                 - Non Government Organization
NSW                 -  Nadwislanska Coal Mining Company
PARG                -  State Hard Coal Mining Restructuring Company
PHRD                -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIC                 -  Public Information Campaign
PLN                 -  Polish Zloty
PRP                 -  Privatization and Restructuring Project
SEA                 -  Sector Environmental Assessment
SECAL               -  Sector Adjustrnent Loan
SIM                 -  Social Impact Monitoring
SOE                 -  State-Owned Enterprise
SPA                 -  Sector Privatization Assessment
TPY                 -  Tons Per Year
VAT                 -  Value Added Tax
ZUS                 -  Social Insurance Fund of Poland
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



POLAND
HARD COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Poland
Amount:                   EUR 280.13 million (US$ 300 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard interest rate for LIBOR-based EUR single currency
loans
Commitment Fee:           0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
sigmng
Front-End Fee:            EUR 2.8013 million (US$ 3 million equivalent)
Objectives and Description:   The objective of the SECAL is to support the Government's Hard
Coal Sector Restructuring Program, and notably the successful
implementation of socially acceptable and effective employment
restructuring (which includes addressing the needs of miners
leaving the industry, ensuring adequate funding of social support
activities, safeguarding a transparent flow of funds, and helping
unemployed workers find jobs).
Benefits:                 The Govermment's Program, and by implication the SECAL,
would have important benefits for Poland, for the region, for the
mining companies and the miners: (a) successful implementation
will help stem the losses of the coal companies and eventually
tum a money losing state controlled sector into a competitive and
profitable private industry; (b) from the point of view of society,
the immediate beneficiaries of the Program, and the SECAL,
would be the miners and their immediate dependents; (c) the
population of the mining regions would benefit from continued
social peace and employment opportunities, while increasingly
enjoying a cleaner environment; (d) the Polish people would
indirectly benefit through improved economic performance and
an assurance that their hard earned tax payment are being applied
to constructive needs rather than to propping up a loss-making
industry.
Risks:                    Coal sector restructuring is an inherently difficult task and in this
context the operation must be considered a high risk operation.
There are four major risks: (a) implementation may slow down
due to continued unwillingness of mine management to close



capacity because of the inherent social and other difficulties; (b) a
lack of sufficient funds to meet the demand for social packages in
1999 would compound the first risk; (c) the companies may fail
to become profitable because future sales volumes and prices are
below projected levels; and (d) companies may be slow to
implement high priority enviromnental improvements. These
risks have been recognized by the Government and are addressed
in the design and implementation of the Program. The mine
closure implementation risk is mitigated by the commitments in
the company business plans and managers employment contracts,
and by the requirements of the enabling law. The risk of under
funding of social packages in 1999 is mitigated by a commitment
both, on the side of the Government and the mine management to
mobilize additional resources needed to fund the Program. The
financial performance risk will be mitigated by the
implementation arrangements and in particular the incentives in
the managers employment contracts.   The environmental
performance risk will be mitigated by incentives to company
managers to implement environmental improvements and by
strong monitoring and supervision.
Schedule of Disbursements:   First Tranche at effectiveness; Second Tranche after meeting
certain conditions (estimated about eight months after release of
first tranche).
Poverty Category:           Poverty-focused.
Rate of Return:             Not applicable.
Project ID Number:          PL-PE-57957
Maps                       IBRD 30178 and IBRD 30179
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Project preparation included ten missions in 1998 and five in 1999. The following staff and consultants
have participated in missions to prepare the project:
Core Team: John Strongman, Bernard Baratz, Christian Duvigneau, David Fretwell, Pawel Kaminski,
Zoe Kolovou, Malgorzata Michnowska, Melinda Roth Alexandrowicz.
Other Bank Staff: Marcelo Selowsky, Manouchehr Ashouripour, Carlos Cavalcanti, Ardo Hanssen, Jan
Pakulski, George Park, Jan Rutkowski, Christopher Wardell, Jacek Wojciechowicz.
Consultants: Marian Radetzki (SNS, Sweden); Peter Moore, Steven O'Donoghue, Colin Hewer, John
Longden, Michael Strickland, Graham Morris (IMC, UK); Bodo Goerlich, Christian Pinnow, Martin
Wedig, Wolfgang Treuwerth (Montan Consult, Germany); Ewa Kakiet Springer (CDC, USA); Slawek
Skurzynski (Poland); and Jolanta Hess (Canada).
The Bank Team wishes to express its gratitude and appreciation to its Polish counterparts, in particular
the members of the Inter Ministerial Coal Steering Committee, as well as other officials in the central
government, local administration, hard coal industry, and numerous institutions, including in academia,
private sector and NGOs, for the excellent cooperation and support provided to the Bank team and its
consultants during the preparation of the Loan.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED HARD COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I.           INTRODUCTION .....................................................1
PART II.          MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT .........................................    2
A.  Current Macroeconomic Situation ......................................   2
B. The Hard Coal SECAL and its Relation to the Country
Assistance Strategy ....................................................  3
PART III.   THE HARD COAL SECTOR AND THE GOVERNMENT'S
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM . .                                                    4
A. Hard Coal Sector Overview.                                                4
B. Program Objectives.                                                       7
C. Main Features of the Restructuring Program.                               8
D. Expected Results.                                                        14
E.  Program Costs ...............................................           14
F.  Implementation, Management and Monitoring of the Program ....    16
G.  Restructuring Program Progress To Date ............................     18
H.  Restructuring Program Benefits .......................................    18
1.    Restructuring Program Risks ..........................................    19
PART IV.   BANK SUPPORT FOR THE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
AND PROPOSED SECAL LOAN .........................................    21
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement and Objectives of the Loan ......    21
B.  Loan Arrangements and Tranching ....................................    21
C.   Other Loan Features ...................................................  24
D.  Lessons Learned From Other Operations ............................      26
PART V.           PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................    28
PART VI.          RECOMMENDATION ...................................................          29



ANNEXES, SCHEDULES AND MAPS
Schedule A     Specific Annexes ................................................................  30
Annex 1  Letter of Sector Development Policy .31
Annex 2 Policy Matrix .40
Annex 3 Main Economic Indicators   .          .44
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators .44
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators .46
Table 3: Social Indicators .47
Schedule B  Poland at a Glance .48
Schedule C     Timetable of Key Processing Events .50
Schedule D     Status of Bank Group Operations in Poland .51
Maps           IBRD 30178
IBRD 30179
Documents in the Project File
1.  Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program (Warsaw, July 1, 1998).
2.   Republic of Poland Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program Enabling Law (Warsaw,
December 29, 1998).
3.   Business Plans, 1999 to 2002, of seven Hard Coal Mining Companies (Warsaw September
1998 to February 1999).
4.   Operational Plans, 1999, of seven Hard Coal Mining Companies (Warsaw November 1998
to February 1999).
5.   Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED HARD COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
PART I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendations on a proposed Hard
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (the Coal SECAL) to the Republic of Poland for US$300 million
equivalent to support implementation of the Government's coal restructuring program. The loan
would be at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for Euro single currency loans, with a
maturity of fifteen years, including five years of grace.
2.    Poland's hard coal sector has suffered very large and increasing losses in recent years and
has become a severe drain on the government budget because it has failed to adjust to shrinking
domestic demand and sharply declining export sales and prices. The sector is also a major polluter
that fails to pay its environmental fees and fines. To stop these losses and prepare the sector to
compete within the European Union, the Government has made reform of the sector one of its
highest priorities and put in place a comprehensive Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program (the
Program).
3.    The Government's Program, which is already under implementation, provides for closure of
about 19% of coal mining production capacity and a reduction of about 43% of the workforce over
the period 1999-2002. To facilitate and encourage the work force reduction needed, the Program
provides a significant package of social support measures which was introduced in June 1998.
These have already proved to be very effective, with over 10% of the miners taking packages and
leaving the industry voluntarily in the second half of 1998.
4.    Cash costs of the Program are estimated at about US$2 billion over the period 1998 -2002.
The Coal SECAL would help finance about half of the costs of the Program in 1999 and early
2000. The Government has indicated that it expects to request further support from the Bank to
help finance up to 50% of the costs over the remainder of the Program in subsequent operations.



2
PART II. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
A.  Current Macroeconomic Situation in Poland
5.   The Polish economy is in its eighth year of economic expansion, combining strong economic
growth (the fastest in central Europe over the past five years) and significant declines in inflation.
Real GDP growth has averaged 5% per year between 1992 and 1998, while inflation has declined
from 70% in end 1991 to 8.6% in end 1998. Sustained economic expansion has attracted high
levels of foreign direct investment, having recorded net inflows equivalent to4.3% of GDP in 1998.
Sustained economic growth, however, has also been accompanied by a shift in the balance of
payments current account. Between 1995 and 1997 the current account slipped from a 3.3% of
GDP surplus to a 3.3% deficit, widening further to 4.2% of GDP in 1998. While this is small by
regional standards, there is concern about the rate at which the current account deficit is growing
over the past years.
6.    The Polish authorities have responded to these developments with prudent economic policy.
initially tightening monetary policy, limiting credit expansion and allowing real interest rates to
rise above 10% p.a.. More recently tightening fiscal policy, leading to a decline in the consolidated
public sector deficit to 2.7% of GDP in 1998, down from 3.1% of GDP in 1997. The 1999 budget
framework calls for a further reduction in the fiscal deficit to 2.5% of GDP, based on an assumed
real GDP growth rate of 5.1% and a further fall in inflation to 8.1%. Although actual outcomes
could be slightly lower for both, putting downward pressure on state revenues and testing the
Government's ability to implement the budget.
7.    The change in policy mix was warranted for several reasons. A tighter fiscal policy stance
was essential to allow monetary easing, reducing pressures on interest rates. The tighter fiscal
stance also helped focus the attention of policy makers on measures to ensure medium term fiscal
sustainability. This is important both for short term macroeconomic management, and for financing
structural reforms and new expenditures required for EU accession, such as needed investments in
transport and environment-related infrastructure. Finally, the combination of sound fiscal policy
and low external exposure (short-term debt accounts for 20% of foreign reserves and less than 10%
of total external debt) has been important in maintaining Poland's favorable access to international
capital markets (Poland currently commands low spreads - around 10 basis points - in its
eurobonds), and in limiting the impact of external shocks.
8.    The authorities have attempted to ensure medium term sustainability of public finances by
continuing fiscal consolidation, reducing the share of the state in the economy. This in turn is
closely connected with restructuring and privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs). These
enterprises still account for about 40% of GDP, and their output is strongly subsidized, either
directly through the budget, or indirectly through the build up of tax arrears and debts that
ultimately have to be honored by the State. Also, privatization revenues are expected to play a key
role in financing structural reforms in public finances, such as the pension reform. The Hard Coal
Sector Project, assuming it is fully implemented, is therefore an important step in efforts of the



3
Polish authorities to achieve medium term sustainability in public finances. The operation reduces
a major drain on the budget, and makes an important contribution toward improving fiscal
perforrnance.
9.    Recent developments have reinforced the rationale behind the authorities proposed policy
strategy. The impact of the Russian crisis (mainly on trade flows to the East), and slower growth in
key EU markets, have placed additional near-term pressure on Poland's current account deficit and
real GDP growth rate. The planned fiscal tightening (to control aggregate demand) should
contribute toward limiting growth of the current account deficit. Indeed, in case the planned fiscal
tightening is achieved, the good prospects for continued inflows of foreign direct investments, the
generally positive international assessment of the Polish economy, and official reserves equivalent
to seven months of imports, should make it likely that the current account deficit will continue to
be financed without serious disruption.
10.   There is no EMF Program for Poland. The last financial arrangement between Poland and
the IMF was a Stand-By Operation which expired on March 4 1996. The last Article IV
consultation was concluded on March 16, 1998 (EBM/98/28). In concluding the 1997 Article IV
Consultation, Executive Directors commended Poland for its continued record of impressive
economic performnance, which had made it a leader among transition countries. At the same time,
Directors expressed concern about the persistence of relatively high inflation and a deterioration in
the current account position.  As a result, Directors called for an acceleration of fiscal
consolidation, accompanied by strong wage restraint, and a strengthening of the pace of
privatization and social security and health care reforms. Directors also agreed that maintaining the
existing tight monetary stance was appropriate until a slower pace of credit expansion was
confirmed and the fiscal stance gave confidence that policies were in place to control the pace of
domestic demand growth. Directors welcomed the decision of the National Bank of Poland to
lower the rate of crawl of the zloty and to widen the band around the currency's central rate, as the
greater flexibility of the rate would help discourage short-term capital flows and assist in the
disinflation effort.
B.  The Hard Coal SECAL and its Relation to the Country Assistance Strategy
11.   The proposed Bank lending to support coal sector restructuring is fully in line with the main
program objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy endorsed by the Board on May 1, 1997.
Key themes of the CAS include: (a) promotion of structural reform and private sector development;
(b) rationalization of the role of the state; and (c) reduction of poverty and development of human
capital.
12.   The proposed SECAL directly supports all three themes. It will: (i) promote structural
reform and help start the process of privatization in a major state-owned sector; (ii) rationalize the
role of the state and improve corporate governance arrangements in the sector; and (iii) help



4
mitigate the effects of the industry reform on local communities, and provide support for retraining
and improving the employment prospects of workers leaving the industry.
PART III. THE HARD COAL SECTOR AND THE GOVERNMENT'S
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A.  Hard Coal Sector Overview
13.   Hard coal represents the backbone of the Polish energy sector providing over 60 % of total
primary energy consumption in Poland and about two thirds of power sector fuel supplies, and
accounts for almost 4% of GDP. The sector comprises seven mining companies, established as
joint stock companies (each company operates between 5 and 11 mines, for a total of 53 mines). In
addition, ten other mines have been set up as individual joint stock companies. Two of these
companies are being privatized. Altogether, six mines are being closed down. Thus, there are
presently 63 mines of which 57 are in production and six are in the process of liquidation.
14.   The seven mining companies exhibit significant differences in terms of coal deposits
owned, age and type of mines, capacities, costs and profitability. While all of the companies
produce steam coal, three companies are significant producers of coking coal which obtains better
prices than steam coal. Table 1 provides details on employment, production, sales and financial
performance in 1998 for each of the seven companies.
15.   Total coal sales have declined from about 200 million tons per year (TPY) in the early
1980s to 110 million TPY in 1998. Over the past two decades domestic demand for hard coal
declined sharply from about 160 million (TPY) to about 100 million TPY, essentially due to
contraction of the economy and the restructuring away from heavy industries to lighter industries
and services. A very sharp contraction occurred in the domestic market in 1998 when sales
declined by about 18% (from 102 million TPY in 1997 to 84 million TPY in 1998 ) due to ongoing
changes in energy efficiency and energy substitution (e.g. gas for coal) as well as a very mild
winter.
16. Coal exports peaked at over 40 million TPY in the early 1980s and have fallen since as the
advantage of exports for Polish mines declined under the new foreign exchange regime in the
1990s. Like many other global commodities, the world coal market is presently severely depressed
making exports unprofitable and coal exports were only 27 million tons in 1998. As a result of the
decline in sales, production has fallen sharply from levels averaging over 190 million TPY during
the 1980s to an average of 135 million in the mid 1990s and further falling to 113 million TPY in
1998. By comparison, present total production capacity is about 137 million TPY (as of mid-1998).
When the Program was prepared in early 1998, it was estimated that sales in 1998 would be 116



5
million TPY. Thus, the mining companies face an even more difficult market situation than
anticipated when the Program was prepared.
TABLE 1: KEY DATA OF MINING COMPANIES 1998
17.   Aggregate losses of;thesecto    1 b8    (euiv
i_  l ll     |   ~~26.8         14.6        (365)
|_  l |      1   ~~~30.1        15.4        (264)
|_  | 11    |      8.0Q          4.5        (159)
111i !l      1   ~~224.4        113.2       (3215)
Note: Values for "Other Mines" are based on estimates.
Net losses are after allowing for redundancy packages and nmine liquidation subsidies of about PLN 990 million.
17.   Aggregate losses of the sector reached PLN 3.19 billion (equivalent to about US$0.9
billion) in 1998, almost the same as 1997 (3.23 billion). The decline in labor costs in 1998 due to
employment downsizing was largely offset by the decline in sales revenues due to market
contraction. None of the mining companies was profitable in the last three years. In some mining
companies, equity has been fully eroded by accrued losses. The unsatisfactory cash flow has led to
tight liquidity for some companies, which at times face difficulties in meeting their payrolls.
18.   Because of increasing losses, the mining companies have paid little if any of their
obligations to the Government (taxes, social security, environmental fees and fines) in recent years.
Total accumulated liabilities have reached a level of over 15 billion PLN (about US$ 4.3 billion
equivalent), of which less than 15% are long term liabilities and over 85% are short term liabilities
with over two thirds of those due to Government institutions.



6
19.   The operating cost curve of the sector for steam coal shows an average cost of about US$
35 per ton. A more meaningful measure is the cost per calorific unit, which averages about US$
1.6 per giga joule (GJ). This cost compares with internationally traded coal prices at the
Amsterdam/Rotterdam/Antwerp (ARk) ports of US$ 1.3 to 1.6 per GJ. In Poland, there are
several very competitive mines with costs below US$ 1.20 per GJ, and also a number of very high
cost mines in excess of US$ 2.0 per GJ. The latter include some very old mines (which typically
need to be closed because of exhaustion of deposits) and some much younger and more modern
mines (which should never have been developed from an economic standpoint), which companies
are generally reluctant to close.
20.   Employment has been reduced from a peak in 1987 of about 430,000 miners to about
208,000 at year end 1998. Labor costs represent about 50% of total production costs with
relatively little variation among mining companies. In spite of the substantial labor force reduction
during the 1 990s, due essentially to attrition and to privatization of ancillary services, the sector has
been unable to become profitable, as old and obsolete capacity is kept in service at substantial
costs, and as productivity gains are eroded by real wage increases. Closure of this excess capacity
is required, along with further labor reductions beyond the level that can be achieved by natural
attrition and privatization.
21.   All of the mining companies had sizeable assets unrelated to coal production, including
social assets. During the past eight years, substantial progress has been made by the industry to
divest itself of social assets: (a) hospitals and clinics have been merged into the general health care
system, and under the Government's new national health care insurance system that was introduced
on January 1, 1999, workers are able to select the services they need from different health care
providers; (b) schools and kindergartens have been turned over to Gminas, schools have been
rationalized where there is duplication, and a mix of Gmina funding and user fees has been
developed for kindergartens; (c) sports and cultural facilities have been turned over to Gminas or
leased to clubs; and (d) there are multiple approaches being used to divest housing, including
transferring housing to tenants coops. All companies also have non-coal commercial subsidiaries
which typically are used as vehicles to provide alternative employment for miners when mines are
closed.
22.   Mining operations in Poland have been a significant source of water pollution, land
degradation, and to a lesser extent air pollution problems. The two most critical issues are: (1) salt
water discharges into surface waters, and (2) disposal of mining and coal preparation wastes.
Poland has a well conceived environmental regulatory and institutional framework in place to
manage these issues based on user fees for environmental discharges. However, fees and fines
have not been adequately enforced, with the result that a massive liability (over US$1 billion) has
accumulated to different environmental funds in terms of unpaid pollution fees, penalties and
associated interest.



7
B.  Program Objectives
23.   The Government's Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program aims at restoring profitability
of the sector in a socially and environmentally acceptable manner. Specifically, the Program
focuses on four key element: (i) restructuring and rationalization of the sector's labor force; (ii)
reducing production capacity; (iii) financial restructuring; and (iv) improving management and
corporate governance. It also puts strong emphasis on improving environmental protection,
increasing competition, and introducing privatization, consistent with requirements as defined by
the European Union.
24.   More specifically, the Restructuring Program which the Government approved in June
1998, establishes the following goals:
*  Coal companies should obtain a positive result from operations, at the latest, at the end of year
2000;
• Production capacity of the coal mining sector will be reduced by approximately 25.5 million
tons of annual production by the year 2002 (from about 137 million TPY capacity in mid
1998);
-  Employment in the coal mining sector will be reduced to the level of about 138,000 employees
by the end of 2002 (from about 243,000 employees in end 1997 );
3  Environmental management practices are to be improved to ensure that the sector becomes
environmentally sustainable; and
-  Once restructured, the coal companies should be privatized.
25.   To achieve these objectives, the Government is committed to fund the Program, to provide
strong support for affected workers and communities, and to maintain effective monitoring and
auditing arrangements. It is also committed to maintain a hard budget constraint on the industry
whereby there will be no non-Program subsidies or guarantees and/or repayments by Government
of commercial debts of mining companies. In addition, the Government will ensure that
environmental improvements are implemented, and will take steps to encourage rapid privatization
of coal mines and coal companies where feasible. The Government also intends to establish
suitable regulatory and administrative arrangements for a privatized industry.
26.   These aims are presented in the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) which is attached as Annex 1.
The LSP lays out the path that the Government intends to follow as it implements the Program over
the next four years and highlights key implementation arrangements and responsibilities.



8
C.  Main Features of the Restructuring Program
1.   Employment Restructuring and Social Packages
27.   The core of the Program consists of employment restructuring in the coal mines, which is
based on voluntary departures. The Government wishes to ensure that there is an adequate safety
net in place to support all persons who may become unemployed as a result of the restructuring of
the coal sector and has put in place a comprehensive set of financial support measures, active labor
market services and measures to assist all unemployed workers in the mining regions and to
encourage the development of new employment activities outside the mining industry.
28.   Within the mining industry, employment restructuring is based on a Miners Social Package
(MSP) which comprises a range of options designed to encourage workers to leave the mines,
including: (a) temporary income support/severance for those below retirement age, and bridging
income support for those nearing retirement age; and (b) active labor programs to assist those who
need and want assistance to re-enter the labor market after leaving employment in the mines.
29.   Miners Social Package (MSP): The MSP includes three main financial packages designed
to encourage voluntary labor reductions especially for underground workers. Workers may choose
one of the following options and get paid directly:
*  Miners Leave Package: A social allowance consisting of a financial bridge lasting up to five
years to encourage voluntary early retirement of eligible underground miners. The program
costs about 30,000 PLN per miner per year (in 1998 terms). Presently, the average package is
about three years but is expected to increase to four years over the life of the program as
additional workers become eligible for a full five year package.
*  Social Allowance Package: A type of re-employment incentive consisting of a two year
allowance paid to workers that are interested in re-employment outside of the mining sector.
During the two years that workers are entitled to this re-employment allowance, they are also
eligible to receive a single free training or retraining course, and will be assisted through the
provision of job offers to find alternate employment. So far this package is not popular: less
then 2% of the miners have taken it.
*  Unconditional Lump Sum Package: A single lump sum departure incentive consisting of a
one time payment of PLN 44,400 (in 1998 terms), given to workers who are willing to leave
their employment in the mine. This incentive will be reduced gradually over time. Thus far,
this has been the most popular option.
30.   The Program projects that about 117,000 workers will leave the sector during the period of
1998-2002. About 62,000 are expected to use one of the options provided under the MSP and an



9
additional 55,000 are expected to leave through natural attrition. According to the Program, new
hires (obligatory, mining school graduates and special experts) will be about 12,000. The cost of
the Social Package PLN4.5 billion ($1.5 billion, in 1998 prices) over the period of 1998-2002 will
be financed from the state budget.
31.   The MSP is largely targeted at underground workers with limited eligibility for surface
workers. However, clerical workers and other surface employees who do not qualify for the MSP
are eligible for standard severance payments under the labor code. In addition, all unemployed
workers from affected companies have access to: (a) immediate on-site assistance from the Mining
Labor Agency (GAP), which maintains a network of Vocational Assistance Offices (BPZs) in
individual mines; (b) additional employment and job counseling services from Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy (MOLSP) regional and local labor offices; (c) once registered as unemployed,
mine workers also have access to additional active labor services (e.g. retraining, small business
assistance) from labor offices, as well as the right to unemployment benefits the same as any other
unemployed worker; and (d) miners' families who meet means-tested minimums are eligible for
social assistance services and related payments through local social assistance offices. An initial
follow-up of miners who have taken the MSP lump sum option indicates that, after about six
months, half had already found jobs, another half had invested their payments in bank deposits, and
85% had a positive assessment of the MSP.
2.   Capacity Restructuring
32.   Under the Program, reduction of production to match demand will involve liquidation of an
additional 25 million tons of capacity (about 19% of total capacity). This will include complete
closure of 17 mines (8 mines in the mining companies, 3 in the single mine companies, in addition
to 6 mines where production has previously stopped and closure is presently taking place). Thus,
by year 2002, 46 mines will remain active. In addition, unprofitable parts of mines are being shut
down in 20 mines of the mining companies. The Program envisages these closures to take place
between 1999-2002 at an estimated cost of about PLN1.5 billion ($0.4 billion, in 1998 prices).
33.   Costs of closure of mines (averaging US$16 per capacity ton or about US$17 million per
mine to be closed) include: (a) closing of underground roadways; (b) stowage of underground
roadways, if required to avoid subsidence; (c) closing and capping of shafts; (d) installation of
water pumping equipment to prevent flooding of the mine, if this could endanger neighboring
mines; (e) costs of recovering equipment, if any; and (f) limited above-ground mine site
reclamation work. Costs for closure of entire mines will be financed from the state budget, but the
companies must finance partial mine closure from their own resources.
' Mines must often rehire young miners who return from military service.



10
3.   Financial Restructuring
34.   The Program provides for rescheduling or forgiveness of liabilities to Government and
government institutions including environmental funds - but not commercial liabilities. This
covers about 64% of the total accumulated liabilities of the sector (about PLN 8.5 billion liabilities
out of PLN 13.3 billion (US$3.8 billion) total liabilities as of March 31, 1998) as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: Liabilities to be Rescheduled or Forgiven
Liabilities Eligible for Rescheduling:
PLN 0.6 billion due to Central Government (VAT, income tax on employees and loans
guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance)
PLN 0.4 billion  due to the environmental funds
PLN 0.2 billion due to municipalities
PLN 1.2 billion total
Liabilities Eligible for Forgiveness:
PLN 3.7 billion due to environmental funds
PLN 2.7 billion due to social funds
PLN 0.9 billion other debt due to the Central Government
PLN 7.3 billion total
35.   In addition, the enabling law provides that liabilities to Government or Government
institutions resulting from losses projected to occur during the transition period until December 31,
2000 (and estimated to amount to about PLN 2.5 billion) would be eligible for either rescheduling
or forgiveness.
36.   Restructuring of financial liabilities resulting from unpaid environmental fees and fines will
require official confirmation of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry. The Ministry will be requested to approve the proposed environmental remediation
program (including measures and compliance schedule) of the mines requesting restructuring.
Before such an approval, the Ministry would assure itself that the program is satisfactory.
37.   For the mining companies to be eligible for this debt restructuring, the following main
conditions must be met. First, during the period of 1999-2002, the increase of the average monthly
wage may not exceed the mean annual increase of the CPI established for each year in the



I1
Program. Third, the debtor must meet current liabilities due to the Social Insurance Fund (ZUS),
the Labor Fund and the Fund for Guaranteed Workers Benefits in a timely manner.
38.   With respect to liabilities arising after March 31, 1998 and until December 31, 2000, the
mining companies can seek to reach agreements with individual creditors as to the extent and
method of repayment. The draft law provides that (i) liabilities to the Government, including
interest (excluding the VAT), and liabilities to municipalities can be waived fully and (ii)
rescheduling would not apply to liabilities incurred after December 31, 2000, and (iii) repayment
periods would not exceed 5 years.
4.   Management Strengthening
39. The mining companies will operate as autonomous, independent companies supervised by
independent and competent Supervisory Boards (Board of Directors) appointed by the shareholder.
Management Boards (i.e. Presidents and Vice Presidents) have been appointed with four year
employment contracts for the period 1999-2002. These management contracts contain incentives
based on financial performance, cost reduction and environmental performance. In case of highly
unsatisfactory performance or failure to implement their business plan, members of the
Management Board can be dismissed. The supervisory boards will be strengthened through
appointment of highly qualified and motivated individuals including one full time supervisory
board member.
40.   As part of the Program, the mining companies prepared four-year business plans (for 1999-
2002) covering planned production, production costs, sales, capacity closures, employment and
employment reduction plans, investments, productivity, projected environmental improvements,
etc. and providing pro forma income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements for the
period (in real terms). The business plans also served as an important input for the Government's
assessment of the strength of Company management and for deciding on management
appointments. In addition, annual operating plans are to be prepared each year in (nominal terms)
which provide the basis for implementing the business plans. The business plans will be updated
after two years to the extent required. The four year business plans provide the basis for annual
operating plans which are prepared by the mining companies each year.
5.   Environmental Improvements
41.   Environmental protection has been largely ignored by the coal mining industry in the past
and environmental improvements are essential for the sector to improve public acceptability and
meet EU accession conditions. The range of environmental problems are significant but technical
solutions exist. The most significant problem is saline water discharges. Other significant issues
include land use damage from surface disposal of mine wastes, land subsidence, and releases of
coal bed methane. There are also issues of radium in waste-water effluents, radon gas releases, and



12
persistent fires at mine waste disposal sites, but these are of lesser importance. To address the
above issues, actions are targeted at three levels.
42.   First, the mining companies have each prepared business plans which include
environmental management issues and identify: (a) the priority environmental mitigation measures,
(b) the associated cost and sources(s) of financing, (c) the reduction in environmental fees to be
expected from implementing the measure and (d) the schedule for its implementation. In order to
improve implementation of these plans, environmental actions will be considered in evaluating
mining company management performance and in determining management bonuses.
43.   Second, the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP) will conduct a Sectoral
Environmental Assessment (SEA) using technical assistance funds from the on-going Privatization
and Restructuring Project (Loan 3342-POL) to help it in: (a) establishing environmental priorities,
(b) identifying appropriate mitigation measures, (c) providing costs and (d) establishing an
implementation schedule. The findings of the SEA will be introduced into the mining company
operating plans for the Year 2000.
44.   Third, the MoEP, with the concurrence of the Voivod Environmental Departments, and the
State and Voivod Ecological Funds, will review the environmental management plans and action
programs, and would provide approval, once satisfied about the feasibility and effectiveness of the
Companies' action programs. It is only after this approval is secured, that various environmental
liabilities of the mining company would be waived and/or restructured.
6.   Privatization
45.   The Program states that privatization will be one of the basic tools to achieve the Program's
longer term objectives and the Government has emphasized its commitment to prompt privatization
of the industry in the Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSP). Privatization is well advanced
for one independent mine (Bogdanka) and is starting for another independent mine (Budryk) with
technical assistance under the Privatization and Restructuring Project (PRP) (Loan 3342 POL).
The Ministry of State Treasury (MoST) will be responsible for privatization of complete
companies. The mining company managements will prepare and implement privatization of
individual mines with approval from MoST as per legal and regulatory requirements.
46.   MoST will conduct a Sector Privatization Assessment (SPA), also using PRP technical
assistance funds. The SPA includes a detailed financial assessment of each of the seven mining
companies including their readiness for privatization and identification of any valuable assets (such
as real estate) which could be used to raise cash and, thus, pay down creditors and help facilitate
early privatization. It also examines licensing arrangements in the light of the needs of a privatized
industry. The results of the SPA will include both a privatization strategy for the sector and a
privatization action plan for each company.



13
7.   Regional Development and Social Monitoring
47.   Most hard coal mining is based in the Upper Silesian region (around Katowice). In spite of
the past predominance of obsolescent heavy industry, this region has achieved high growth rates,
has low unemployment and has increasingly diversified into light industries and services. These
factors have helped to ease the social impact of the Program so far and are expected to continue to
do so.
48.   The Government has addressed the social impacts of industrial restructuring and
employment downsizing and the Program emphasizes the need for a coordinated approach towards
restructuring of the hard coal sector in the context of regional development of Upper Silesia. To
ensure strong coordination with regional authorities, representatives of the Katowice Voivodship
and the local parliament are members of the Inter-Ministerial Coal Steering Committee for coal
restructuring.
49.   The Program  also fosters cooperation between the mining company and the local
administration (Gmina) in respect to dealing with past liabilities to the gmina as well as
opportunities arising from the closure of mines and the reclamation of abandoned mine sites. The
government is taking steps to ensure that the Program implementation is coordinated with the new
powiats (county govermments) which were established effective January 1, 1999, as part of the
regional administrative reform. The Government is using multiple approaches to monitor the
social impact of restructuring including:
-  using existing labor office administrative data to monitor unemployment, and the degree
to which displaced miners are entering the ranks of the unemployed;
-  using existing social assistance office administrative data to monitor the number and
types of families, including miners families, which qualify for means tested services and
payments;
*  undertaking special follow-up surveys of workers taking social packages (see Section C
(1) for description); and
*  planning regional labor surveys to more generally monitor movements and trends in the
labor market.
50.   In addition, the Government has mounted a Public Information and Communications (PIC)
campaign, including public opinion surveys, to facilitate program implementation and gauge
general public awareness and understanding of the Program.



14
D.  Expected Results
51.   The mining companies have prepared Business Plans for 1999 - 2002, the results of which
are summarized in Table 3. The Business Plans project that production will decline from 113
million tons in 1998 to 104 million tons in 2002 and that sales will decline from 110 million tons in
1998 to 103 million tons in 2002. In addition to the sales to customers, coal is also used in mining
company-owned heating and power plants. Stocks of coal held by the mining companies are
expected to decline from about 3.5 million tons at the end of 1998 to about 2.5 million tons in
2002.
52.   The number of operating mines will be progressively reduced to 45 mines and the industry
will generate a net profit in 2001 after subsidies for miners social packages and mine liquidation
costs. Table 3 shows the critical assumptions from 1998 - 2002 in terms of average coal price (4%
increase), total annual average employment (40 % decrease), and unit operating  costs (18 %
decrease). All data are in 1998 real terms.
53.   Taking these projections and extending them for a ten year period (1999-2009), results in an
improvement in aggregate industry cash flow of about PLN 14 billion compared with a scenario of
no program. The projections of improved financial performance depend in part on expected prices
and sales volumes. As noted previously, the domestic coal market contracted rapidly from 102
million tons domestic market sales in 1997 to 84 million tons in 1998. Coal sales and prices (in real
terms) in the first quarter of 1999 show little improvement over 1998 levels - thus the industry
could be facing a revenue shortfall of 8-12% compared to the Business Plans.
54.   The market situation means that there is an even more compelling need than previously
realized to keep up the process of labor force down-sizing to facilitate both reduced operating costs
and faster capacity closures, thereby reducing oversupply and counteracting falling demand. In
addition, it is all the more imperative that companies aggressively pursue increased efficiency and
cost savings in non-labor costs such as materials, energy, external services and maintenance. The
employment contracts for the mining company managers provide strong incentives to encourage
the mangers to find ways of reducing costs and improving financial performance.
E.    Program Costs
55.   The cash costs of the Program during 1998 - 2002 are estimated at about PLN 7 billion in
1998 terms (US$2 billion) as shown in Table 4 of which about 75% is for employment
restructuring (including reimbursement of supplementary pensions paid by Social Security funds)
and about 25% for coal mine liquidation and environmental rehabilitation. In addition, depending
on the timing and mix of packages used, there will be about another 2 billion PLN for the carryover
costs of miners leave packages from 2003-2006.



- 15 -
Table 3: Business Plan Results 1997 to 2002 (1998 terms)
Mio t        137       113        112       110        105       104
~~~~~~~~~000                        244        224       189        167       148        136
;   S  .               ~~~~~~MiMoL. PLN    16,203    13,563    14,128    13,773    13,333    13,257
]   ] l l 9  9 , lgl0 Mio. PLN     1,216      1,363     1,023       862        513       469
i ; i lIN 
E 2 = g ~~~~~Mio. PLN               8,590     8,706      7,252     6,476      5,886     5,528
M~~~~~Mio. PLNN  9,286                 7,716      8,068     7,130     6,823      6,451
*  | ffi   wr ffiIs_Mio. PLN        21        369       242          0         0          0
~~~~~~~~~~~~68                               99       1,66      169    £1.34    B1,199
:               -        (#~~~~~            ~~)   0  6      44         8        15         17
I/ Subsidies a's paid against cost of miners social packages and physical mine liquidation



16
F.  Implementation, Management and Monitoring of the Program
56.   Based on the Program document, the Government prepared an enabling law (Adjustment of
the Hard Coal Mining Sector to Operations in a Market Economy), which sets out the rules for key
features of the program. The law became effective on January 13, 1999. The Government has also
issued the critical implementing regulations. Under the Program and enabling law, the ownership
functions of the Government for the mining companies have been transferred from MoST
(previously the owner) to the Ministry of Economy (MoE). Therefore, MoE has produced the
Program and coordinated inputs from other interested parties (ministries, regional authorities,
agencies and NGOs).  However, as noted previously MoST retains the responsibility for
privatization.
57.   The Ministry of Finance (MoF) is responsible for providing funding for the Program. In
1998 the MoF mobilized additional funding to help finance extra MSP to meet demand which was
well in excess of Program estimates. For 1999, the MoF has adhered strictly to the Program budget
providing about PLN 1.8 billion in budgetary funds for the Program. However, this allocation does
not provide sufficient funds to meet the likely demand for MSP. There are many demands for
budgetary funding and MoF has set a high priority on not exceeding its budget deficit target and
MoF is, therefore, reluctant to allocate more budgetary funds to the Program in 1999. Thus, MoF
is presently considering to see if there are any other options for financing additional MSP in 1999
including companies using some of their own funds.
58.   The Ministry of Economy, in coordination with the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
(MoLSP), is taking the lead in respect to the management and implementation of the Miners Social
Package. MoE has overall responsibility for the Program, but MoLSP will be heavily involved in
ensuring that there are adequate employment services available to support miners leaving the
industry. In addition, MoLSP will be responsible for overseeing the Public Information Campaign,
and assisting with implementation of previously described social monitoring activities.
59.   The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP) will be responsible for managing
preparation of the Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA). The National Fund for Environmental
Protection and Water Management (National Fund) and Voivodeship Environmental Departments
will provide advice to the MoEP, as well as the Mining Companies on environmental matters.
Furthermore, MoEP, in conjunction with the Voivodeship Environmental Department, will monitor
implementation of the environmental aspects of mining company business plans.



17
TABLE 4: Estimated Costs of the Restructuring Program 1998-2002
(PLN million - 1998 terms).
1998   1999  2000  2001  2002  Total        %
Employment Restructuring     505   1,044 1,017  812   947  4,325          60
Reimbursement of Supplement.
to Pensions paid by Social
Security Fund                  0    250   250  250   250  1,000           14
Closure of Coal Mines        211    413   462   225   176  1,487          21
Liquidation of Mining Damages   28    35   35    35    35    168           2
Job Creation/Gmina Support     0       50   50    50    50    200          3
Total Program Cash Cost      744   1,792 1,814  1,372 1,458 7,180        100
Memo Item:
Debt Restructuring/Forgiveness:                              8,500
Source: Hard Coal Restructuring Program, June 30, 1998.
60.   An Inter Ministerial Coal Steering Committee (IMCSC) appointed by the Prime Minister
and reporting to the Council of Ministers will oversee Program implementation. The IMCSC
consists of Deputy Ministers from five ministries (namely Ministries of Finance, Economy, Labor,
Environment, and State Treasury) as well as the Voivod of Katowice Province and the Chairman of
the Local Parliament of Katowice, and will help MoE to monitor progress in carrying out the
Program. De facto, the Committee has already operated since mid 1998 as the Program was being
prepared and implementation arrangements worked out. The IMCSC will be supported by a full
time Secretariat with three professionals, one on employment and social matters, one on the
environment and one on financial/restructuring issues.
61.   The State Hard Coal Restructuring Agency (PARG) will monitor industry performance
under the Program. This monitoring will cover both company performance, as well as the
aggregate sector performance and, will be based on the performance targets included as part of
company business plans and associated employment contracts.



18
62.   The MoLSP will take the leadership for social monitoring and provision of employment
services for miners. Initial analysis carried out in 1998 indicated that unemployment in Upper
Silesia remains below the national average and that over 50% of the miners taking lump sum
packages or social allowances have found new jobs.
63. Audits of both the employment restructuring funds and the mine liquidation funds are carried
out by the mining companies auditors, PARG, and the Supreme Audit Office (NIK). While some
administrative problems were identified in the first few months that the MSP was available, these
have been resolved in a satisfactory manner and all the funds have been fully accounted for and
have been used for their intended purpose. In addition, a special audit unit has been established by
the Ministry of Finance in Katowice to provide additional spot checks and audits that the funds are
not being misused. Audits carried out in 1998 confirmed that funds have been used properly.
G.  Restructuring Program Progress to Date
64.   Since the first draft of the Government's Program was issued, substantial progress has been
made in completing the detailed Restructuring Program, in drafting and approving needed
legislation, and perhaps most important in building a strong political consensus in favor of the
reform, especially with the mining unions, miners and mine management. Good progress has also
been made by the mining companies in putting together business plans that spell out their
restructuring plans, marketing and production goals, and in starting to implement the actions to be
taken to return the companies to profitability.
65.   The miners, with the support of their families have responded with strong interest in the
packages with 25,885 miners signing up for packages (consisting of 15,599 miners leaves
packages, 10,140 lump sum packages, and 146 social allowance packages) by the end of December
1998 compared to the 12,000 workers originally estimated in the Program. As a consequence the
PLN 505 million included in the 1998 budget was used up and an additional PLN 250 million was
added, coming from the Labor Re-deployment Fund in the MoLSP.
H.  Restructuring Program Benefits
66.   The Program should provide substantial benefits to the economy and to various social
groups. In particular, as a result of Program implementation:
* Redundant miners will benefit from generous temporary income support packages and
assistance in finding alternate employment, retraining, and small business assistance during a
transition period;



19
*  The remaining miners will work in a more stable industry with safer mining conditions2 and
which would be able to provide secure incomes and reasonable growth rates;
* The regional economy will benefit from improved labor mobility and re-deployment of a
significant number of persons in new jobs, thereby contributing to a growing GDP, rather than
being a drain on it;
* The region will benefit from reduced pollution and from clean-up of abandoned mines and
related industrial facilities; and
* The country's energy sector will benefit from stable coal supplies at internationally competitive
prices and increasing coal quality as more selective mining will concentrate on easier accessible
and higher quality deposits. This will contribute to the growing competitiveness of the Polish
economy, an important feature in the context of EU accession.
I.   Restructuring Program Risks
67.   The complexity of the Program involves necessarily a number of potential implementation
risks. The four major risks are that (i) mines are not closed or are not closed quickly enough in line
with falling demand and the decline in the workforce; (ii) implementation may slow down in 1999
due to lack of sufficient funds to meet the demand for miners' packages which is exceeding
original Program estimates; (iii) mining companies may not become profitable and be privatized,
and (iv) mining companies may be slow to improve environmental performance. Other risks, such
as contagion to other sectors (demand from other sectors for similar write-offs of liabilities,
financial restructuring support, and in particular similarly generous social packages) and possible
social-political turmoil cannot be ignored, but Government efforts so far have successfully
mitigated these concerns on the argument that the mining sector entails particular health risks and
hardships.
68.   The first major risk is that because of opposition from the workers, mining company
managers may fail to close mines - or close them quickly enough given falling demand. In
practice, mining companies are unable to close a mine unless its labor-force is either leaving the
sector or can be re-deployed in other mines. The MSP is designed to help to rationalize the labor
force quickly across the companies. The mine management must then re-deploy remaining miners
from the mine to be closed. If mine closures are insufficient or take place too slowly, excess labor
could be hidden in the companies, costs would be higher and the re-balancing of supply and
demand would be slowed down, further putting pressure on the domestic sales prices.
69.   This risk is addressed in three ways. First, the selection of mines for closure has been made
by the managers of the mining companies (not imposed on them by Government) and the timetable
for closure is specified in the business plans. Second, once the closure decision is formally taken
by the mining company, the enabling law specifies a maximum time by which each step must be
completed for consultation to take place, production to be terminated, environmental remediation
completed and the assets of the mine liquidated. Third, the mine managers are committed to
implement the business plans as part of their employment contracts.
2 Most mines which will be closed are older and more prone to accidents and less safe operations.



20
70.   The second risk - which is linked to the first, is that implementation may slow down in
1999 due to lack of sufficient funds to meet the demand for miners' packages which is exceeding
original Program estimates. The Government was unable to fund fully the demand for packages in
1998. Furthermore, the large proportion of miners leaves (relative to lump sum payments) has
resulted in large carryover costs of about PLN 640 million in 1999. Thus, the 1999 budget of PLN
953 million for social packages will only be sufficient for about 8,000 packages (depending on the
mix of packages) whereas over 16,000 miners are expected to leave the industry according to the
business plans.
71.   This risk is mitigated by the Government, reaffirming in the LSP its commitment to
maintaining the momentum of the Program and to finding additional resources to fund the Program
in 1999 if needed (as it did in 1998). This could involve mobilizing budgetary savings to provide
additional funds for the packages or alternatively finding ways for the mining companies to
mobilize such funds - for example through better use of internally generated funds, cost savings,
deferring low priority expenditures, reducing inventories and selling real estate or other assets.
Mining company managers have indicated their willingness to identify and mobilize funds to help
finance packages.
72.   The third major risk is that the companies may fail to become profitable, even though
program implementation would proceed according to schedule. Prices (and sales) may fall well
below projected levels.  The industry already has an aggressive program of employment
downsizing and mine closure. Further reductions would then be required. In addition there is
scope for improving efficiency also in other cost categories, i.e. reducing non-labor costs.
Incentives in the management contracts may help, but experience indicates it may take years to
complete the change from a production-based culture to a highly cost conscious culture.
73.  If some of the companies do not improve their financial performance sufficiently,
privatization may become more difficult and the Government may be faced with bankruptcy of the
weakest companies. In this context, it will be essential that Government maintain the commitment
included in the Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSP) to a hard budget constraint for the
companies and resist pressures to provide subsidies to cover operating losses. Given budget
constraints and EU accession hopes, the Government is much more likely to resist providing state
support.
74.   Fourth, mining companies may be slow to implement high priority environmental
improvements. If the industry is in financial difficulty, this risk increases since managers may be
tempted to cut back on environmental expenditures as part of cost cutting efforts to reduce losses.
However, the mining company business plans contain sound environmental protection plans.
Environmental improvement is one of the key performance criteria for the mining company
managers. The performance of the mining companies will be also monitored by their Supervisory
Boards, by the IMCSC and by the Bank. Finally, the approval of the financial restructuring of
environmental fees and fines for each company is dependant on improved environmental
performance.



21
75.   The Government is continuing its efforts to ensure a strong social consensus for coal reformn
to avoid experiencing the same type of struggles that have taken place in other countries. This risk
is political, and should diminish as Program implementation continues.
PART IV. BANK SUPPORT FOR THE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM AND THE
PROPOSED SECAL LOAN
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement and Objectives of the Proposed Loan
76.   The Bank has been involved in an on-going dialogue with the present and previous
Governments regarding coal sector restructuring and has taken an active role in reviewing and
advising at all stages as the Government has prepared, designed and started to implement the
Program. The Government has requested financing from the Bank to help meet the budgetary cost
of its Program and the Bank has agreed to consider lending of up to US$1.0 billion over the next
three years to help finance up to half of the costs of the Program, on the basis that this level of
financial support is required and that there is satisfactory progress in Program implementation. To
provide this level of support, a series of three SECALs over the next four years is envisaged,
possibly supplemented by a sector investment operation for the mines themselves to help finance
capacity rationalization and meet environmental and other specific investment requirements.
77.   The Government has requested initial Bank financing for the Program in the form of the
proposed US$300 million equivalent two tranche SECAL. The SECAL would help cover
approximately half of the requirements of the 1999 and early 2000 budgets of the Program. The
primary objective of the SECAL is to support the successful implementation of socially acceptable
and effective employment restructuring (which includes addressing the needs of miners leaving the
industry, ensuring adequate funding of social support activities, safeguarding a transparent flow of
funds, and avoiding undue stress on the local labor market and helping workers find jobs).
78.  In addition, the loan will help lay the basis for moving the sector towards competitiveness
and profitability and will also support the start of privatization for the sector. Deepening the
reforms and achieving sustained profitability, improved environmental performance and
privatization would be the subject of subsequent operations.
B.  Loan Arrangements and Tranching
1.   Financial Arrangements
79.   The proposed Coal SECAL of US$ 300 million equivalent will be quick-disbursing and will
provide balance of payments and budget support, linked to the conditionality specified for the



22
tranche releases. The loan will be released in two tranches: the first tranche of US$ 70 million
equivalent (plus US$ 3 million for the payment of the front end fee) equivalent on loan
effectiveness (expected in July 1999), and the second tranche of USS 227 million equivalent on
fulfillment of specific tranche release conditions linked to satisfactory implementation progress and
sound macroeconomic management (expected in first quarter 2000). The much smaller amount for
support of the 1999 budget (through the first tranche) is a consequence of the ceilings on external
borrowing which are included in the budget. Therefore, the tranche release conditions are back-
loaded.
80.   The proposed loan, in the form of a single currency Euro loan, will be made to the Republic
of Poland, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The loan will have the standard amortization
term, grace period and LIBOR-based interest rate for such loans. Disbursements will be made into
a Deposit Account of MOF established in the Central Bank of Poland for this purpose.
81.   In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursemenlt Rules
under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements of
the loan will not be linked to any specific purchases, and hence, there will be no procurement
requirements. Disbursements of the loan will be subject to the standard negative list of ineligible
goods and countries of origin. The Government has indicated that the counterpart funds generated
will be used to provide support for the coal sector reform program. Upon notification by the Bank
of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank into the
MOF Deposit Account following receipt of the Borrower's withdrawal application.
82.   If after deposit in this account, the proceeds are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the
Bank will require the Government to either (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes, or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan. Although routine audits of the Deposit Account will
not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time. The expected closing date
of the proposed loan will be September 30 , 2000.
2.   Tranche Release Conditions
83.   First Tranche: Disbursement of the first tranche of US $70 million equivalent, which
focuses largely on the design of the program and the requirements for successful implementation,
will occur on the basis of conditions fulfilled before presentation of the loan to the World Bank
Board and implementation of critical actions before effectiveness of the proposed loan. First
tranche conditions include actions satisfactory to the Bank relating to implementation and
monitoring arrangements, socially acceptable employment restructuring, improved financial
performance for the mining companies and improved coal industry environmental performance.
Conditions of effectiveness include the following: (a) production has been terminated at two mines
under the Program and a resolution has been adopted for liquidation of one mine under the
Program; (b) the Borrower has prepared an updated plan for the MSPs, satisfactory to the Bank, for



23
the calendar year 1999, reflecting the termination of production at the mines referred to in (a)
above; and (c) the Borrower has issued 14,000 lump-sum MSPs to miners under the Program.
84.   Second Tranche: Disbursement of the second tranche of US$ 227 million equivalent
(expected about 8 months after the first tranche) will be contingent on (i) a review satisfactory to
the Bank of the country's macroeconomic performance; (ii) satisfactory progress in implementation
of the coal reform program as set out in the Letter of Sector Policy; and (iii) fulfillment of tranche
release conditions relating to specific implementation targets which demonstrate progress in
carrying out the program, especially in regard to socially acceptable employment restructuring,
profitability for the mining companies, improvements in mining industry environmental
performance.
85.   In evaluating Poland's macroeconomic performance for the second tranche, the Bank will
form an overall assessment of the short and long tern sustainability of economic growth in a
setting of low inflation and external balance. In doing so, the Bank would draw upon regular
analyses by the Bank and the IMF, with a particular focus on the following:
* Progress in meeting the announced target of 2.5% of GDP for the consolidated general
government budget deficit for 1999;
*  Progress in achieving the targets for privatization revenues assumed in the 1999 state budget;
and
-  Progress in limiting state subsidies and indirect support to state owned enterprises, including
deferral of tax payments, debt guarantees and debt forgiveness.
86.   With regard to employment restructuring, the objective is to ensure that the miners are
getting their financial packages and labor redeployment services, that sufficient workers are leaving
the industry, and that the Program is not causing unmanageable social stress or having an adverse
impact on the most vulnerable. It is also important from a social equity standpoint and from the
standpoint of facilitating mine closure that new MSP are offered first to miners at mines being
prepared for or in the process of closure so that miners losing their workplaces get the right of first
refusal on new MSP. This will require that the employment restructuring program is adequately
funded, that MSP are directed as first priority to mines that are being closed, that funds are not
being diverted, and that a range of social monitoring procedures are put in-place with adequate
funding to ensure that social and labor services are available to the most needy. Specific
conditionality include:
*  acceptance by not less than 18,000 miners of lump-sum MSPs since the start of the Program;
*  offering of new  MSPs to miners in mines being closed so that they have the right of first
refusal for new MSPs
*  timely payments to miners of amounts due under approved MSPs;
*  completion of satisfactory audit of budgetary payments under the Program to the mining
companies for MSPs;



24
* preparation of a satisfactory plan for MSPs for the year 2000; and
* satisfactory implementation of social safety net measures required under the Program.
87.   With regard to industry financial performance, the objective is to see a significant start in
implementing the steps needed to reduce losses. This involves the managements of the mining
companies implementing their business plans and, in particular, making good progress in closing
excess capacity and reducing costs, which will require that the both the employment restructuring
and physical closure programs are adequately funded, and that funds are properly used. Specific
conditionality includes:
*  liquidation, during 1999, of assets of at least five mines;
*  termination of production during 1999 at not less than four mines;
*  completion of satisfactory -audit of budgetary payments under the Program to the mining
companies for mine liquidations;
*  adoption be each Mining Company of resolution for liquidation of mines in the calendar year
2000;
-  appointment of privatization specialists to prepare the privatization of at least two Mining
Companies;
-  preparation of the offering of the Budryk and Bogdanka mnines to private investors;
*  reconstitution of the Supervisory Board of each Mining Company and appointment of a full
time Supervisory Board member;
*  approval of year 2000 Operating Plans for the Mining Companies, satisfactory to the Bank,
taking into account the findings of the SEA and SPA and the capacity restructuring,
employment and financial targets as set forth in the Program and the Mining Companies'
Business Plans; and
*  submission of a draft financial restructuring plan for each Mining Company to the IMCSC for
its review prior to the submission of the plan to the MOE.
88.   With regard to environmental performance, the objective is to see the companies starting to
implement the environmental improvements proposed in their business plans. This will also
require the necessary funding to be available and the mining companies to be implementing their
business plans. Specific conditionality includes: satisfactory implementation of environmental
improvement actions outlined in the Business Plans to address the salinity and other pollution
caused by mining operations so that the total saline content of water discharges in the hard coal
sector and the quantity of solid waste generated during the period from January 1, 1999 till
September 30, 1999, are lower by not less than 10% compared to those of the same period in
calendar year 1997; and the aggregate amount of fees and fines assessed on the Mining Companies
for solid waste surface discharges for the period from January 1, 1999 till September 30, 1999, are
lower by not less than 5% compared to those for the same period in the calendar year 1998.
C.  Other Loan Features
1.   Monitoring Arrangements
89.   The Government is committed to a continuing program of social monitoring to track the
social impact of the coal restructuring program. Social monitoring reports which measure overall



25
compliance with the social impact indicators will be submitted to the Bank as follows: monthly for
unemployment data, quarterly for social assistance data, and every six months on the social survey
of MSP recipients. Submission of such reports and compliance with agreed indicators would be
required as part of the second tranche release review.
2.   Poverty Category
90.   The proposed Coal SECAL supports Government policies that aim to make coal sector
restructuring socially sustainable. This will be accomplished in part by ensuring that the existing
social safety net meets the needs of those most affected by restructuring: redundant coal sector
workers and their families and communities. The Miners Social Package, in combination with the
existing social protection system, should ensure the establishment and financing of a minimum
safety net for the unemployed and for pensioners of mines being closed. The design and
implementation of the delivery mechanisms ensures that individual beneficiaries receive the safety
net support to which they are legally entitled and that local and municipal governments have the
capacity to operate essential social assets divested by the coal industry to such administrations. In
this context, the SECAL falls in the category of a "poverty-focused" operation
3.   Environmental Category
91.   The Bank's insistence on environmental improvements, both as part of the Program and in
connection with mining company operations and the direct involvement of Government
environmental institutions, has been an important Bank contribution and remains an important area
for further work. As a Sector Adjustment Operation (SECAL), the proposed Project, itself, will not
result in any adverse environmental impact. If anything, net environmental benefits are expected as
a direct consequence of requiring environmental remediation programs as an integral element of the
business plans. These plans have been reviewed and approved by an Inter-Ministerial Steering
Committee which will also help ensure their proper implementation. The Project is classified as a
Category B Project.
4.   Participatory Elements
92.   The process of preparing the Program was a comprehensive one, involving central
Government institutions, regional and local administrative bodies, the mining industry and Union
representatives. Moreover, the Bank also had an intensive dialogue with representatives of local
Government, Voivodship administration, labor unions and a number of NGOs. These included
groups, concerned with environmental matters, as well as NGOs with a focus on social
acceptability. Among the latter were also groups dealing with the issue of women in the coal
mining sector, and the impact of restructuring on families, and notably women and children. Their
suggestions have been taken into account to a large degree. Moreover, the social assessments
which are being executed and will be repeated during and at the end of Program implementation,
will allow to improve detailed features of the Program as its execution moves along.



26
5.   Other Donors and Potential for Co-financing
93.   The technical assistance provided by Bank staff and consultants in helping to shape the
Government's Program has been financially supported by a number of bilateral agencies including
those of Belgium (Flanders), Canada, Sweden, the UK, and the US. Previous studies were
supported by Israel, Sweden and the EU. A request for further support for project preparation has
been agreed under the Japanese PHRD program. Presently the U.S. Department of Labor is on-
site, and the UK Department for International Development (DFID) is defining a strategy to assist
gminas with local economic development and job creation. The Bank has maintained regular
contact with representatives from the EU and bilateral institutions to keep them informed about
progress in Program preparation.
94.  It is not envisaged that the SECAL would be co-financed, except potentially with some
grant funding for social support preparation and/or specific, small activities in the region related to
sector restructuring. IFC has financed several private sector projects in southern Poland and has
invested in venture capital funds which help create new jobs by supporting smaller businesses. In
the future, subject to progress of privatization, IFC will consider supporting investments in
modernization of heavy industry in Upper Silesia and in financial intermediaries which should help
new business development. EU is supporting the coal and steel sector restructuring with specific
targeted operations of their own. In 1998 an operation in support of social and environmental
aspects in coal and steel sector restructuring, with an amount of ECU 30 million was processed by
the EU. For 1999 another operation will support coal sector restructuring; and for the period until
EU membership, further EU support of the sector as well as for regional development in Upper
Silesia is envisaged. In addition, IFC and EBRD have expressed an interest in considering
financing or equity contributions as mines and/or mining companies are privatized
D.  Lessons Learned From Other Operations
1.   Employment Services Operations
95.   The social component of the proposed SECAL builds on the Employment Promotion and
Services Project (Loan 3338-POL) which helped to create a country-wide labor services system,
including labor re-deployment, retraining, and small business assistance, with a special focus on
Upper Silesia, and introduced modern labor re-deployment programs throughout Poland. The
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy has expressed its satisfaction with the important infrastructure
built under that loan and with the major lessons learned with regard to social support measures and
labor re-deployment.
96.   Further valuable lessons for actionable programs, and notably the importance of fast acting
and targeted income support with demand driven labor re-deployrnent programs have been derived
from other labor redeployment operations in the ECA region. These include operations with direct



27
linkages to privatization in Macedonia, Romania and Turkey. These operations show that the
selection of capable implementing agencies is crucial. This has been achieved in Poland through
close cooperation between Human Resource Departments at mines, the Mine Labor Agency
(GAP), and the MoSLP local labor offices of the Katowice Region.
2.   Coal Restructuring Operations
97.   The employment and capacity restructuring aspects of the project have been considered in
the light of experience with the Russia and Ukraine Coal SECAL operations as well the Romanian
Government's recent experience with mining industry severance payments. The Bank's experience
with coal SECALs in the ECA Region has been that implementing coal sector reform is highly
dependent on overall macroeconomic conditions and that a high level of commitment is required
over several years to achieve sustained change in an industry such as coal.
98.   However there are major differences between the social, political and economic
environment in Poland and the conditions in Russia and Ukraine. Such conditions are much more
positive in Poland and provide a much stronger basis of support for the proposed operation in
Poland, although as discussed earlier there are still critical risks especially regarding industry
financial performance. The differences between the Poland operation and the operations in Russia
and the Ukraine are highlighted below:
D  Poland is a fast growing, robust economy with a sound economic policy which has
demonstrated its inherent strength during the onset of the Asian and Russian Crises. The Polish
coal industry does not suffer from the severe wage arrears problems that affects the Russian
coal industry or the huge inter-enterprise debts and barter system that impacts the Ukraine coal
industry.
*  Due to rapid growth, there is declining unemployment (particularly low in Upper Silesia) which
will facilitate the absorption of miners into other industries or services. Poland does not have
the same type of "one company " coal towns that characterize much of the Russian and the
Ukrainian industry.
* Local governments are strong enough that the transfer of social assets such as schools and
hospitals has taken place in an orderly manner in Poland unlike Ukraine and Russia where it is
a major concern needing special initiatives (such as municipal lines of credit in the case of
Ukraine).
*  Poland has already started negotiations to join the EU as part of the first group of Central
European Countries invited to join. EU accession provides a significant impetus for state
enterprise restructuring, notably in coal and steel, as both industries will have to be able to
operate competitively in the EU market environment.
*  Poland can afford to compensate miners which are a strong political force, well organized and
potentially could derail a Program if it is not underpinned with adequate social support;
Poland's fiscal situation provides further assurances that the social support program can be
maintained in future program years.
*  The Polish coal industry is technically sound and has a good safety record. There is a strong
core of mines which could become profitable relatively quickly, once the Government provides
for a rapid exit policy for excess capacity and supports the rationalization of the labor force.



28
* The structure of the Polish hard coal industry is different than in the two other countries. The
industry is corporatized and divided into seven competing mining companies which are able to
redeploy miners and managers from mine to mine (unlike in the Ukraine and much of Russia,
where closure of a mine affects all personnel of that particular mine).
* Social support mechanisms are well established and have been functioning satisfactorily,
including programs developed with the support of the Bank's Employment Promotion and
Social Services Project.
* There is a window of opportunity, since the Government has a strong trade union support base,
given the direct link with Solidarity, which recognizes the need for restructuring the sector.
99.   All these factors suggest that a much more favorable environment for successful
implementation of the Program is prevailing in Poland.
PART V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
100.  Benefits: The Program and by implication the SECAL would have a number of important
benefits for Poland, for the region, for the mining companies and the miners. First and foremost,
successful implementation will help stem the losses of the coal companies and eventually turn a
money losing state controlled sector into a competitive and profitable private industry. This will
not only reduce the drain on the budget but also help strengthen Poland's capacity to compete
within the EU. Even if profitability takes longer to achieve than forecast, losses will be much
lower with the Program than without the Program. In addition, it could well become a model for
the reform of other sectors.
101. From the point of view of society, the immediate beneficiaries of the Program, and the
SECAL, would be the miners and their immediate dependents. In addition, the population of the
mining regions would benefit from continued social peace and employment opportunities, while
increasingly enjoying a cleaner environment. The Polish people would indirectly benefit through
improved economic performance and an assurance that their hard earned tax payment are being
applied to constructive needs rather than to propping up a loss-making industry.
102.  Risks: Experience around the world demonstrates that coal sector restructuring is an
inherently difficult task and in this context the operation must be considered a high risk operation.
Despite several attempts in the past decade, hard coal sector restructuring has not been
accomplished so far in Poland because of the lack of an adequate social program and a resulting
inability or unwillingness on the side of mine management to close capacity.
103. As discussed in the risks section for the Program (Section 111.1), there are four major risks.
First, implementation may slow down due to continued unwillingness of mine management to close
capacity because of the inherent social and other difficulties This risk is compounded by a second
risk of lack of sufficient funds to meet the demand for social packages in 1999. Thirdly, the



29
companies may fail to become profitable because future sales volumes and prices are below
projected levels. Fourthly, companies may be slow to implement high priority environmental
improvements. Thus, this operation is considered a high risk operation.
104.  The Government's Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Programn has been designed with the
lessons of the past in mind. The Program is well prepared and is being implemented in a strong
macro economic situation. The risks noted above have been recognized by the Government and are
addressed in the design and implementation of the Program. The mine closure implementation risk
is mitigated by the process by which the mines were selected, by the commitments in the company
business plans and managers employment contracts, and by the requirements of the enabling law.
The risk of under funding of social packages in 1999 is mitigated by a commitment both, on the
side of the Government and the mine management to mobilize additional resources, as needed, to
fund the Program. The financial performance risk will be mitigated by the implementation
arrangements and in particular the incentives in the mangers employment contracts.  The
environmental performance risk will be mitigated by incentives to company managers to
implement environmental improvements and by strong monitoring and supervision.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
105.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.                                                  By Sven Sandstrom
May 18, 1999
Attachments



- 30 -
Schedule A
ScheduleA
Specific Annexes
Annex 1         Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 2         Policy Matrix
Annex 3         Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 3: Social Indicators



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 9
POLAND
HARD COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I.   Introduction
The Government of Poland is implementing a comprehensive Hard Coal Sector Restructuring
Program. This Program was approved by the Council of Ministers on June 30, 1998.
Implementation of the Program is supported by the Enabling Law on adjusting hard coal mining
sector to functioning under conditions of market economy and on specific privileges and tasks of
mining communes, that was ratified by the Parliament and signed by the President on December
26, 1998. The Program is designed to reduce the capacity, employment, cost and environmental
problems of the sector. Expected results include profitability for the sector, improved corporate
governance of the mining companies, competition and privatization in the sector and sustainable
environmental improvements.
II.   Objectives for Coal Sector Reform
Specific objectives of the program include the following:
* Profitability: Coal companies should generate profits from operations as of the year 2000;
this is to be achieved through:
-  Improved Corporate Governance:  to support restructuring efforts and increase
accountability in mining companies employment contracts for Management Boards were
introduced. One of their basic elements is periodic assessment of management's
performance based on companies results.;
-  Capacity Rationalization: Mining companies will reduce the production capacity of the
coal mining sector by approximately 25.5 million tons of annual production by the year
2002;
-  Labor Force Rationalization: The level of employment in the coal mining sector will be
reduced by about 105,000 and will be about 138,000 employees by the end of 2002;
- Financial Restructuring: Mining companies will have the opportunity to write off in
whole or in part and reschedule a significant portion of their current liabilities according
provisions of the Enabling Law;
-  Cost Reduction: Mining companies have introduced cost reduction measures in the key
cost categories.



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
* Environmental Improvements: Mining companies will improve their environmental
management practices to lead the sector to environmentally sustainable performance; and
*  Privatization: privatization will be considered especially for individual mines that will good
potential for future activities in coal market. The privatization process has started with the
preparation of the Budryk and Bogdanka mines for privatization. It is expected that there
will be possibilities for privatization of entire mining companies which will depend on the
pace of restructuring of the individual mining companies, achieving profitability as well as
on results of Sector Privatization Assessment..
III.  Policy Framework and Reform Program
(a)   Free Trade and Prices
The Governnent is committed to maintaining free prices and free trade for coal.
(b)   Mine.Capacity Restructuring
According to the Program, the mining companies will close about 25.5 million tons of annual
production capacity . Such closure will have an estimated cost of about PLN1.3 billion Mining
Companies management will be responsible to close entire mines as well as unprofitable parts of
mines. So far 25.8 million tons of annual production capacity has been identified by the mining
companies in their business plans. Further details are given in the attached tables 1 and 2. In case
of the domestic coal market has declined more than anticipated, the mining companies' business
and operating plans may be adjusted accordingly.
An agreement concluded between the Minister of Economy and the mining company will become
a basis for financing the cost of mine closure from the state budget. In 2000, mining companies
will establish a mine liquidation fund, in which they will deposit funds for coverage of future
mine closure costs; the liquidation funds will be created from a part of depreciation fund of
mining companies.
As of January 1, 1999, eleven mines were not producing. These are Pstrowski, Paryz,
Siemianowice, Morcinek, Porabka-Klimont6w, Saturn, Grodziec, Sosnowiec, Zory, ZWP
Antracytu and Walbrzyskie KWK. By December 31, 1999, the mining companies will have
completed liquidation of six mines namely, Paryz, Pstrowski, Siemanowice, Zory, ZPW
Antracytu, and Walbrzyskei KWK. Production will have stopped at another four mines, namely,
Rozalia, Gliwice, Niwka-Morzejow and Siersza. By December 31, 2000, production will be
terminated additionally at mines, , Nowa Ruda, Czeczott, ZG Wojkowice, ZG Jadwiga and
Debiensko. Production will also be terminated at mining areas under partial closure: at five by
December 1999 and another four by December 31, 2000. Further details are given in the attached



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
tables 1 and 2. 338 million PLN has been committed in the 1999 budget to be spent on physical
mine liquidation.
(c)   Employment Restructuring
The Government is committed to socially responsible employment restructuring in the coal mines
based on voluntary redundancies. Miners who leave are eligible for temporary income support,
through a specially designed Miners Social Package (MSP) which provides miner leaves, for
those eligible for retirement within 5 years; social allowances or lump sum cash severance
payments, for those not eligible for retirement within 5 years. In addition, miners ineligible for
the Miners Social Packages are entitled to a lump sum payment of unemployment benefits under
the Employment Law. Packages will be offered as first priority with right of first refusal to
miners at mines being closed or where production is being terminated and to mines which will
provide workplaces for miners at mines being closed.
The Program originally estimated that about 117,000 workers would leave the sector between
1998-2002, out of which about 62,000 would use the MSP, and another 55,000 would leave
though normal attrition. Current trends and business plans indicate the use of the MSP will be
slightly increased and attrition slightly decreased. In view of this, the Ministry of Economy has
instructed mining companies to make sure that retirement rules are properly implemented. The
use of the MSP in 1998 was more than double the expected rate. This trend produced a shortfall
in the 1998 budget and additional funds were made available through the Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection.
In 1998, 38,400 employees left the sector; out of which 26,100 through the instruments of MSP.
15,100 workers used miners leave package. The total budget allocation for employment
restructuring in 1998 was 751,8 million PLN out of which 249,8 was provided from the Labor
Fund.
The Government is committed to ensuring that the Program objectives for employment
restructuring are achieved. In addition, initiatives will be taken in order to find additional sources
of financing including funds from mining companies so that the employment restructuring plans
included in the mining companies' business plans can be achieved.
(d)   Social Support to Communities
Mining companies are obliged by the law to co-operate with the mining communes to transfer
(either giving or selling) remaining social assets to local authorities. This will allow company
management to concentrate on coal production. The Government is committed to assisting
affected gminas in the creation ofjobs, improvement of infrastructure, as well as restructuring the
transferred social facilities.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 9
(e)   Financial Restructuring of Mining Companies
Mining companies presently receive cash subsidies for employment restructuring; mine
liquidation; and certain environmental investments., In addition, companies are eligible for
financial restructuring of liabilities to the state and to environmental funds according to
conditions that are specified in the law on transforming hard coal sector to function in market
economy and on specific privileges and tasks for mining municipalities.
In order to be eligible for this financial restructuring, the mining companies must continue to
fulfill certain basic conditions, namely, not exceeding accepted growth in monthly wage, no
gifts/guarantees, restructuring measures under the business plan being implemented and the
company must be current in ZUS and Labor Fund payments. Companies, at their initiative, can
apply before June 30, 1999, to participate in the financial restructuring.
According to the law, liabilities incurred before April 1, 1998, to the Government (excluding
VAT), Labor Fund, ZUS, Fund for Guaranteed Employee Benefits, the State Fund for
Rehabilitation of the Disabled and the National Fund for Environmental Protection (only fines for
the discharge of saline water) will be written off completely, including interest. Repayment of
other liabilities incurred before April 1, 1998 (VAT, other liabilities to the National Fund for
Environmental Protection, regional/local enviromnental funds and gminas) are postponed
between two and seven years and occur over a five year maximum period, according to the
specifics in the Law. If the mining companies fail to meet any of the conditions for financial
restructuring, then the debt reduction procedure shall be cancelled by the Ministry of Economy
(subject to agreement from the Ministries of Environment, Finance and State Treasury).
The Law also provides for restructuring of liabilities incurred after March 31, 1998 and before
December 31, 2000 (by this date, companies are supposed to become financially viable)
according to the following rules:
* Liabilities occurring after March 31, 1998 may be cancelled, rescheduled or postponed except
for liabilities for VAT or to gminas which can be postponed but only for a period of up to 5
years following negotiation concerning deadlines and terms; and
*  if the company does not fulfill the negotiated payment terms for 3 consecutive months, the
creditor can request that the entire debt reduction procedure is cancelled.
Companies will be able to negotiate with creditors according to the rules specified in the law and
their ability to repay. No further global write off of liabilities will be approved by the
Govemment. Furthermore, the Government is committed to enforcing a hard budget constraint
on the mining companies and will neither guarantee any new commercial liabilities for the
companies (with the possible exception of certain social and environmental investments) nor
service any company liabilities which have not previously been guaranteed.
After December 31, 2002 (i.e. after the adjustment period), there will be no further subsidies for
the mining companies except carryover payments for miners leave and environmental
investments according to generally applicable rules.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 9
(f)   Improving Environmental Performance
The Government is committed to ensuring that the mining companies improve the environmental
performance of the sector. In their 1999 business plans, the mining companies included a section
on improved environmental management. Each individual company set out its environmental
priorities and mitigation measures and the costs and schedule for implementation, as well as the
targeted reduction of fees for environmental discharges.
A Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be carried out, which will help to establish
environmental priorities in the sector, identify appropriate mitigation measures, provide an
estimate of the costs needed to implement such measures and establish a timetable for
implementation. The Government ensures that the results of the Assessment will be included in
the updated business and operational plans of the mining companies. It is expected that the
mining companies will spend at least PLN 100 million annually on environmental protection. The
findings of the SEA regarding saline water will be the basis for improvements and investments at
NSW.
According to rules that apply to environmental investments across all sectors, part of the
financing for needed environmental investments may be available from the National Fund, the
BOS Bank and other financial institutions to carry out the environmental protection measures
envisaged to be undertaken in the business plans. The Government will require that any mining
company applying for such finding will be able to demonstrate improvements in financial
performance as well as a sound environmental management program. Finally, the Government is
committed to vigorous enforcement of the environmental fees and fines starting from 2001.
(g)   Timely Privatization
According to the Program the Govt. will undertake activities related to privatization of the
mining sector. Two mines are currently being prepared for privatization (Bogdanka and Budryk)
and it is expected that they will be offered for privatization in the first quarter 2000. With regard
to the mining companies, a Sector Privatization Assessment (SPA) will be prepared. The outcome
of the SPA will be (a) a general analysis of the sector (b) a detailed analysis of all seven mining
companies including economic, financial, resources, legal, and perspective for future operation
analysis; (c) a strategy for sector privatization , (d) sector privatization plan including schedule
and estimated costs, (e) optimal regulation and administrative framework for the sector. The
findings of the SPA will help to determine which mining companies could be most easily
privatized given current conditions.



- 36 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 9
IV.   Implementation Arrangements
(a)   Enabling Law and Regulations
The enabling law underpinning the program was signed by the President on December 29, 1998
and became effective on January 14, 1999. It is expected that four regulations regarding Defining
the Eligibility of Companies for Subsidies; Subsidies for Mine Liquidation; Setting up; Subsidies
for Employment Restructuring; Loans to Mining Municipalities will be issued by the Government
in April 1999. The other two regulations regarding Mine Liquidation Fund and Refund of Coal
Allowance Equivalent will be issued by the Government by the end of June 1999.
(b)   Improvement of Corporate Governance of the Mining Companies
The Government is committed to providing the framework for the mining companies to operate in
an independent, autonomous and increasingly competitive manner. Each mining company has
started to implement its business plan. Most of these business plans show improved 1999
financial perfonmance, and profitability from operation in year 2000, timely and cost efficient
mine closures, adequate labor restructuring, priority environmental remediation, financial
restructuring proposals and timely privatization arrangements for individual mines. The Minister
of Economy (the shareholder) approved the plans in the beginning of March 1999 after having
them approved by the Steering Committee.
Employment contracts have been signed on March 8, 1999 with the company Management
Boards. Management will be motivated through incentives and will be held responsible to
implement their approved business plans and to achieve targets included in the plans.
Remuneration of the management are linked to certain parameters including financial
performance of the company, cost reduction and improved environmental performance. If
management fails to implement their company's business plan or achieve the targets, such
management would be subject to termination. Highly qualified Supervisory Boards for each
mining company are being searched actively and will be selected through a competitive process.
(c)   Administration, Oversight, Coordination and Monitoring
The Government is committed to oversee actively implementation of the Program. An Inter-
Ministerial Coal Steering Committee (IMCSC) was established on January 29, 1999. According
to need by the IMCSC, advisory working groups may be established.
The Government is committed to keeping communities well informed and to monitor closely the
impacts of the Program. A public information and communications program was started in 1998
and a follow-up second phase is being developed.
The Government is committed to monitoring vigorously the performance of the mining
companies in implementing their business plans. The Ministry of Economy will monitor mining



- 37 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 9
company performance on a quarterly basis, and will report annually to the Council of Ministers
on progress of the Program's implementation.
V.   Amount, Structure and Mechanisms of State Support
The Program is estimated to cost about PLN 14,1 billion, out of which 7,2 billion in a form of
cash subsidy and PLN6,9 billion in debt restructuring.
The Government is committed to a high degree of discipline and transparency in the use of
budget funds. The Ministry of Economy's budget will include a separate line items for the MSP
payments as well as for closure payments. Mining companies will keep (a) employment
restructuring funds and (b) mine liquidation funds in accounts separate from other mining
company funds.
The Government will conduct an independent, external audit of the 1998 social payments and of
the 1999 social payments.
Signed by
Minister Janusz Steinhoff,
Ministry of Economy
Warsaw on May 17, 1998



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 9
Table 1
Mine                     Production        Month and
Capacity          year of
(1997) t/d   (1997)    production
| mln t/year  termination
Whole liquidation:
1  Grodziec                              2778        0.7    XII/1998
2  Gliwice                               4365        1.1     X/1999
3  Niwka Modrzejow                       6349        1.6     VII/1999
4  Morcinek                              5555        1.4     X/1998
5  ZG Rozalia                            4762        1.2     XWl/1999
6  Porabka - Klimontow                   3175        0.8     XII/1 998
7  Nowa Ruda                             1587        0.4     XII/2000
8  Debiensko                             6746        1.7     XII/2000
9  Siersza                               4365        1.1     VI/1999
10  Czeczott                             13,605      3.4     XI1J2000
I1I  Jan Kanty                           3968        1.0     XII/2001
12  Powstancow Slaskich (Bytom 1)        5952        1.5     XII/2001
13  ZG Wojkowice                         3571        0.9     XII/2000
14  ZG Jadwiga                            1984       0.5     VII/2000
15  Andaluzja (ZG Brzeziny)              6349        1.6     XII/2002
Total whole liquidation             75,111       18.9
Partial liquidation:
1  Centrum-Szombierki (Szombierki part)    1587      0.4    IV/1999
2  Bobrek-Miechowice (Miechowice part)    1587       0.4     VII/1999
3  Katowice-Kleofas (Katowice part)      5159        1.3     VII/1999
4  Jas-Mos (Moszczenica part)             794        0.2     XII/2000
5  Polska - Wirek (Polska part)          1587        0.4    III/2000
6  Bielszowice (Poreba part)             3175        0.8    IX/1998
7  Pokoj (Wawek part)                    2381        0.6     XII/2000
8  Marcel (1 Maja part)                  6349        1.6     VI/2000
9  Chwalowice (Rymer part)               4762        1.2     VI/1999
Total partial liquidation           27,381       6.9
Total liquidation of capacity     | 102,492 |  25.8
Note: capacity to be liquidated is determined based on 1997 production level.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 9
Table 2
Mine                             Years
. ________________________________  1998  1999  2000  2001 6    2002
Whole liquidation:
01   Grodziec                             0.7
02   Gliwice                                     1.1
03   Niwka Modrzejow                             1.6
04   Morcinek                             1.4
05   ZG Rozalia                                  1.2
06   Porabka - Klimontow                  0.8
07   Nowa Ruda                                         0.4
08   Debiensko                                         1.7
09   Siersza                                     1.1
10   Czeczott                                          3.4
11   Jan Kanty                                               1.0
12   Powstancow Slaskich (Bytom 1)                           1.5
13   ZG Wojkowice                                  _0.9
14   ZG Jadwiga                                        0.5
15   Andaluzja (ZG Brzeziny)                                       1.6
Total whole liquidation                   2.9   5.0   6.9   2.5   1.6
Partial liquidation:
01   Centrum - Szombierki (Szombierki           0.4
part)
02   Bobrek - Miechowice (Miechowice            0.4
part)
03   Katowice - Kleofas (Katowice part)          1.3
04   Jas - Mos (Moszczenica part)                      0.2
05   Polska - Wirek (Polska part)                      0.4
06   Bielszowice (Poreba part)            0.8
07   Pokoj (Wawel part)                                0.6
08   Marcel (1 Majapart)                               1.6
09   Chwalowice (Rymer part)                     1.2
Total partial liqudation                  0.8   3.3   2.8   0.0  0.0
Total capacity reduction        Total    3.7   8.3   9.7   2.5   1.6
(million tons per year capacity)  25.8
Planned capacity reduction      Total    1.0   8.5   9.0   3.5   3.5
Under the Program                25.5
(million tons per year capacity)  _
(million tons per year capacity)



draft 5/18/99
Poland: Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program: Policy Matrix of the SECAL-Page 1
Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions to be Taken
Policy                   Presentation                  Prior to Loan        Key Actions to be Taken for 2nd Tranche Release
Effectiveness
1.(a)        New MSPs are offered first to miners in   14,000 miners have  18,000 miners have accepted lump sum packages.
Miners       mines being closed so that they have the   accepted lump sum
Social       right of first refusal for new MSP.   packages.               preparation of a satisfactory MSP plan for the year 2000
Packages                                                                  linked to mine closures.
(MSP)                                              The calendar year 1999
Funding                                            plan for MSPs has been   Verification that MSP is first being offered to miners at
updated.               mines being closed.
L(b)         Funds kept in separate accounts                              No arrears at time of tranche review.
MSP          Audits of 1998 MSP confirm no arrears
Record       and budgetary funds used for intended
Keeping      purposes.
and Audits                                                                 Audit to be conducted by independent auditor that
Procedures agreed regarding scope of                         confirms budgetary funds have been used for intended
1999 audits and selection criteria for                       purposes.
auditors.
_ c          Adequate SIM arrangements and funding                         Implementation of Phase Two communications strategy.
Social       for 1999.
Impact                                                                    Implementation of monitoring systems for social aspects
Monitoring  Agreements to broaden the Phase I                              of the Program by: (i) social survey of labor market in
Communication Strategy to cover social                       Silesia and (ii) survey of miners taking MSP.
surveys with needed staff and budget.
On-going provision of social services to vulnerable groups
and adequate funds available from the Labor Fund to
finance active labor programs as needed in regions of
_____           ______________                                              Program implementation.                                  K



Poland: Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program: Policy Matrix of the SECAL - Page 2
Policy                      Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions Taken Prior   Key Actions to be Taken prior to 2nd
Presentation                     to Loan                    Tranche Release
Effectiveness
2. (a) Budgetary        1999 procedures agreed regarding scope of                     Audit to be conducted by independent
Fundingfor Mine         audits and selection criteria for auditors.                   auditor that confirms budgetary funds were
Closure                                                                               used for intended purposes.
2. (b) Production                                              Production has         Adoption by each mining company of
Termination and                                                terminated at two mines resolutions for liquidation of mines in the
Mine Closure                                                   and a resolution for  years 2000.
liquidation of a third
mine has been adopted.  Production terminated at four whole mines
and three partial mines.
Closure completed at five mines.
3. Hard Budget          Enactment of the Law on Hard Coal Mining                      Government has not provided any
Constraint              Sector Restructuring with financial                           additional or hidden subsidies; any
restructuring provisions.                                     additional forgiveness of liabilities to
Government; or guarantees or repayment of
companies commercial liabilities.
Government commitment to Hard Budget
constraint (including not providing any                      IMCSC provides opinions on mining
additional or hidden subsidies; any                           companies financial restructuring proposals.
additional forgiveness of liabilities to
Government; or guarantees or repayment of
companies commercial liabilities).                                                                          K
11 ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                      m



Poland: Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program: Policy Matrix of the SECAL-Page 3
_  Policy               Actions Taken Prior to Board           Actions to be        Key Actions to be Taken prior to 2nd
Presentation                 Taken Prior to                  Tranche Release
Loan Effectiveness
4. (a) Company      Appointed with management contracts with                    Management performance reviewed on a
Management          satisfactory incentive and termination                      quarterly basis.
Boards              provisions.
Search process initiated by IMCSC to find                   New Supervisory Boards appointed by
4.b) Supervisory   candidates with strong commercial                            shareholder with one full time member.
Boards              experience and/or restructuring and/or
financial expertise.                                        Shareholder approval of mining companies'
annual operating plans for Year 2000 satisfactory
4. (c) Mining       Business Plans for 1999-2002 and Operating                  to the Bank that take into account capacity
Company             Plans for 1999 approved by Shareholder.                     restructuring, employment and financial targets as
Operating Plans                                                                 set forth in the Program and the mining
and Business                                                                    companies' Business Plans.
Plans
Costs per ton reduced by 1.5% in nominal terms
from first nine months of 1998 to first nine
months of 1999.
S. Privatization    Business Plans contain privatization                        Satisfactory implementation of privatization
and Sector          initiatives                                                 measures in business plans.
Privatization
Assessment (SPA)  TAPU approval of SPA bidding documents.                        SPA completed and results introduced into Year
2000 approved company operating plans.
Privatization advisors appointed for at least two
mining companies.
Bogdanka mine and Budryk mine prepared for          x
_____________________  _______________________________________                   privatization.                                    Li



Poland: Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program: Policy Matrix of the SECAL-Page 4
Policy           Actions Taken Prior to Board           Actions to be         Key Actions to be Taken Prior to 2nd
Presentation                 Taken Prior to                   Tranche release
Loan Effectiveness
6. (a)           Bid evaluation completed.                                     SEA completed and results introduced into mining
Sector                                                                         company operating plans for year 2000
Environmental
Analysis (SEA)
Govt. as shareholder to ensure that NSW actions
6. (b)           No further investment/ commitments by NSW                     are consistent with findings of SEA
NSW          -   until results of SEA are known
Desalination
Investment                                                                     Endorsement of IMCSC Environmental Working
Business Plans include environmental actions                 Group required before acceptance of company
6.(c)                                                                         financial restructuring proposals
Business Plans
and Oversight
Satisfactory implementation of substantial
6.(d)            Satisfactory environmental verification                       environmental improvement actions as per the
Environmental  procedures in place                                             Business Plans; and IMCSC Environmental
Performance                                                                    Working Group established and chaired by MoEP
and Verification                                                               Verification of environmental performance results
for first three quarters in 1999:
- 5% reduction in amount of fees and fines
assessed on Mining Companies for solid waste
surface discharges since comparable period in
1998;
- 10% reduction in quantity of saline content of
water and solid waste generated since comparable
periodin 1997.                                   Ki1x



- 44 -
Annex 3
Table I
Page I of 2
POLAND - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actuals               Estimate       Projected
Indicator                         1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
National accounts (as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                                       100      100      100       100       100      100      100
Gross domestic product at factor costs                      85.4      86.2       86      87.6     86.5      86.5     85.9
Agriculture                                                 6.3      6.4       5.9      4.4       4.3      4.1       4.0
Industry                                                   28.3     29.2      27.1     26.6      26.3     26.1      25.6
Services                                                   50.8     50.6      52.9     56.6      55.9     56.3      56.4
Consumption                                                 83.1     80.6      82.6     81.2      81.0     80.2      79.8
Gross domestic investment                                   15.9     18.0      20.2     22.4      23.0     24.7      25.9
Government investment                                         ..     3.0       3.4      3.4       2.8      3.1       3.3
Private investment                                         13.1     13.8      15.5     19.0      20.2     21.6      22.6
Exports                                                     24.0     25.9      24.8     27.3      24.5     24.2      24.1
Imports                                                     23.0     24.6      27.6     30.9      28.5     29.0      29.9
Gross domestic savings                                      17.3     18.3      17.8     18.8      19.0     19.8      20.2
Gross national savings                                      15.9     18.0      20.2     19.2      17.9     18.2      17.9
Gross domestic product (LCU billion at current prices)     210.4    288.7    362.8    445.1    521.0    584.1    655.0
Gross national product per capita ($US, Atlas method)       2430     2810     3340      3800     3900
Real annual growth rates
Gross domestic product at market prices                     5.2      7.0       6.0      6.8       4.8      4.0       4.8
Gross domestic income (different name for GNP)               ..       ..       7.7      6.7       4.4
Real annual per capita growth rates
Gross domestic product at market prices                     5.0      6.9       6.0      6.8       4.7      3.9       4.6
Total consumption                                           3.3      1.4       9.8      5.8       6.1      2.3       3.1
Private consumption                                         3.8      3.6       8.7      6.7       7.1      2.1       3.0
Balance of payments (US$m)
Exports (GNFS)                                            25,054   35,716   37,390   39,717    37,004   38,553   42,047
Merchandise FOB                                          18,355   25,041   27,557   30,731
Imports (GNFS)                                            22,789   33,825   41,273   46,367    42,512   46,281    51,802
Merchandise FOB                                          18,930   26,687   34,844   40,553
Resourse balance                                           2,265    1,891   -3,883   -6,650    -5,508   -7,650   -9,700
Net current transfers                                      1,252      958     1,694    2,035         -
Current account balance                                     954       854   -3,264   -5,744         ..
Net private FDI                                            1,846    3,617    4,445    4,863         ..
Long-term loans (net)                                     -8,345      472   -5,441     1,326        ..
Other capital (net, including errors and omissions)        8,012    4,343    4,637   -2,598         ..
Change in net reserves                                    -1,513   -8,432   -3,641    -3,591    -5,698
Resource balance (% of GDP at current market prices)         2.3      1.5      -2.7     -4.6      -4.0     -4.9      -5.7
Real annual growth rates
Merchandise exports                                       118.3    116.7    109.7    113.7    105.1    106.5    112.8
Merchandise imports                                       113.4    120.5    128.0    122.0    118.9    107.5    107.3



- 45 -
Annex 3
Table I
Page 2 of 2
Actuals               Estimate       Projected
Indicator                         1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
Public finance as % of GDP at current market prices
Current revenues                                            44.7     43.8      43.3     42.6      44.2     43.3      41.3
Current expenditure                                         47.4     46.4      46.4     45.5      44.9     44.8      43.3
Current accout surplus or deficit                           -2.8     -2.6      -3.1     -2.9      -0.6      -1.6     -2.0
Capital expenditure of the central budget                   23.2     23.4      26.8     31.3      33.3
Foreign financing of the central budget deficit             -0.6      0.3      -0.2     -0.5      -0.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)                           34.5     34.0      37.7     39.6      42.4     42.2       42
Growth ofM2 (%)                                             38.2      34.9     29.4     29.1      25.2      11.7     11.4
Private sector credit growth / total credit growth (%)       4.8      0.3       0.9     -2.2
Price indices (1997=100)
Merchandise export price index                             114.1    107.4      95.7    100.0
Merchandise import price index                             112.0    104.9      97.8    100.0
Terms oftrade index                                        108.9    129.9    129.9    100.0    112.0    110.0    107.0
Real exchange rate (USS/LCU)                               119.3    100.1      93.0    100.0      97.2     93.2      89.4
Real interest rate (%)                                      -0.9      1.7       4.3     10.5       7.3      4.0       3.8
CPI (% growth rate)                                         32.2     27.1      19.8     13.1       9.6      7.4       6.3
GDP deflator (% growth rate)                                28.4     28.2      18.5     14.8      11.7      7.8       7.0
Key Exposure Indicators
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed (TDO)(US$m)           42,553   42,291   40,895   39,890    30,914   24,855   17,551
Net disburstments (USSm)                                     672      210      464       239
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)                            3,099    4,069    2,551    2,979      3,043    2,488    2,652
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGS                                                    169.8    118.4    109.4    100.4       83.5     64.5      41.7
TDO/GDP                                                     46.0     35.5      30.4     29.4      20.8      15.6     10.1
TDS/XGS                                                     16.3      12.0      7.3      8.0       7.0      5.4       5.3
ConcesioallTDO
IBRD exposure indicators (%/.)
IBRD DS/publicDS                                             3.1      4.1      16.0      17.7
Prefered creditor DS/public DS                              18.1     47.0      16.0     17.7
IBRD DS/XGS                                                  0.3       0.5      1.0       0.8       ..
Share of IBRD portfolio
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                                          ..      ..    49.3       20.8      15.0       ..
Equity and quasi-equity                                       ..       ..    10.8       17.8      15.6       ..
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                                         ..      ..    95.8       44.8      21.8



- 46  -                                                  Annex 3
Table 2
Page 1 of 1
Poland - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                                            l
|            Indicator               1994  1995   1996   1997
Total debt outstanding and          42553  44263  43473  39889
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a              97    335    982   1944
Total debt service (TDS)             3102   4147   2680   2562
(USSm)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                           164.6  134.8  125.6  107.3
TDO/GDP                            43.2   35.0   30.4   27.9
TDS/XGS                             12.0   12.6    7.7    6.9
Concessional/TDO                   25.4   25.1   23.3   19.3
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                    3.1    4.1   16.0   17.7
Preferred creditor DS/public        18.1   47.0   16.0   17.7
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                          0.3    0.5     1.0    0.8
IBRDTDO(US$m)d                    1818   2067   2175   2078
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)           ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                       0       0       0       0
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



- 47 -
Annex 3
Table 3
Poland: Social Indicators
Latest single year              Same regionlincome group
Europe & Central Upper-middle-
1970-75      1980-85       1990-96               Asia        income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)            34.0          37.2         38.6               477.9         473.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                  0.9          0.9           0.2                0.3            1.5
Urban population (% of population)               55.4         60.0          64.1               66.4           73.0
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           2.2           2.3          1.6                 1.8           2.6
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                           ..           ..          23.8
Urban headcount index                            ..           ..
Rural headcount index                            ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                                         2,020         3,230              2,200          4,600
Consumer priceindex(1987=100)                     12            68        25,574                  *-           506
Food price index (1 987=100)                       ..           70        21,547
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                  10.4           ..           9.3
Highest quintile                                33.3            ..          36.6
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                              ..          4.8                4.4            3.4
Education (% of GNP)                                         4.9           5.5                5.6            5.0
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)           ..           ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                           96            99            97                 96             91
Male                                           ..          100            97                 97
Female                                         ..           99            96                 96              -
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                            ..           89             ..                 ..            76
Urban                                          ..           94             ..                ..             87
Rural                                          ..           82             ..                ..             42
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..           92            96                 87             84
DPT                                              ..           94            95                 81             88
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           70            70            72                 68             70
Male                                          67            66            68                 64             66
Female                                        74            73            77                 73             73
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)               25            18            12                 24             30
Under 5 (per thousand live births)               ..           ..            15                 30             36
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  204           253           179                303            181
Female (per 1,000 population)                104           105            92                128            107
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                ..           12            10
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



Schedule B
-  48  -                                                Page  1  of  2
Poland at a glance                                                              5/17/99
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                           Central  middle-
Poland      Asia  Income        Development dlamond-
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      38.7       476       571                  Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atias method, US$)                   3,590     2,320     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     138.8     1,106     2,584                       T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Foculation (%J                                        0.2        0.2       1.5     G                                G
Labor force                                           O'S        0.5       1.9     GNP                             Grass
0  per                 7         primary
Most recent etmate (test year avaIlable, 1991 .97)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty I% of population beow national poverty fine)   24
uran populaion (% of total population)                 64        67        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        S9        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               12        26        30
Child malnutrition (S of children under 5)              ..        ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..        ..        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    .          ..      15 j
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   99         92      107               Poland
Male                                                  ..        ..                        Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               .._.._.._I
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..    74.0       134.6    135.7
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                  ..    28.9       20.2      22.1                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..    17.2       24.8      26.3
Gross domesti savings/GDP                     ..    34.6        17.8      18.8
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..    28.9        20.2      22.1
Current account balance/GP                     ..     *1.2       1.0      -3       Domestic                     Ie
Interest payments/GDP                         ..       1.4       1.1       13      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    49.5       32.3      29.4
aotal debt service/exports                   2.8      13.1       7.4
Present value of debtDP                        -.      -.       2681
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ..      96.5
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97      1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)-
GDP                                 1.7      1.0       6.1       6.9       5.5               Pobnd
GNP per capita                      0.9      1.1      684        6.0       5.4               Upper-iddl-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices           3.8      9.8      15.3      15.9       4.7 1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                   ..        ..       6.9       5.1
Industry                                      ..        ..      31.5      30.7    20
Manufactunng                                 ..       ..       23.4     20.2      o
Services                                      ..        ..      61.6      64.2                  93   94   95 95   97
Private consumption                           ..    62.1        64.2      64.5    -40
General govemment consumption                 ..       8.5      18.4      18.5                     GDI      OGDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    16.8        27.6      31.4
(ave-rage annual growth)                 197646  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agrculture                                    ..    -1.3         2.4       1.5    40
Industry                                      ..    -0.1         7.1       9.8    30
Manufacturng                                 ..    -0.2        8.1      14.1    20
Services                                      ..       6.5       5.9       5.6    10 . .
Prvate consumption                           0.6       1.6       8.7       7.1     0
General government consumption               2.4       5.8       7.7       7.7     o      9    93   94   95   93   97
Gross domestic investment                   -0.2       0.6      20.3      20.8   -10
Imports of goods and services               -1.4      13.1      27.2      22.7                  Exports    O  Imports
Gross national product                       1.8       1.4       6.5       6.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



_ 49 -                                         Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Poland
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976     1986       1996       1997      Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                             90:
Consumer prices                                   ..     15.8                          40
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..      19.0       18.5      14.8    20
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   ..       ..                                  92    93    94   ss   9s   97
Current budget balance                            . .                  .                        -     GDP deflator   C PI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        ..         ..        .,
TRADE
1976     1986       1996       1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(UIS$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               .    .          24,440    25,751     90,o00
Other metal                                                      1,510                40
Other metal                                     ..        .        381               40,000
Manufactures                                   ..        ..    18,147    18,811       30,000
Total imports(cil                                ..         .     37,137    42,308      20000
Food                                            '         .      3,761     3,363
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..        ..        97         90             91  92  93  04   gs  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                     .        ..       100         93                  a Exports o     Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       ..         97        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                               1976      1986       1996       1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                10,686    13,673     34,956    37,013      3
Imports of goods and services                13,407    12,814     36,166    41,917    1
Resource balance                             -2,721      859      -1,210    -4,904      4
Net income                                     -651    -2,662       -366      -465      2
Net current transfers                             ..       ..       224      1,100
Current account balance                      -2,973     -854      -1,352    -4,269                2 9             9
Financing items (net)                         3,158      681       5,338
Changes in net reserves                        -185      173      -3,986                4l
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)            4.00E-4   1.75E-2        2.7       3.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,487   36,642      43,482    39,890
IBRD                                           0         0      2,175      2,079             G. 3,812       A: 2,079
IDA                                            0         0          0          0              :,1
Totai debt service                              305     1,816      2,680     2,562
IBRD                                           0         0        344       297
IDA                                            0         0          o          o     F: 9,500
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                0         0        665       600
Official creditors                            -6       650        248       -140
Private creditors                            863        17        113       934
Foreign direct investment                      6        16      4,498      4,500                     _E:24,493
Portfolio equity                               0         0        722          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0         0        249        522     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0         0        464       239      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0         0        197        155     C - IMF                        G- Short-terrrm
Net flows                                      0    0    266   84  _
Interest payments                              0         0        147        142
Net transfers                                  0         0        119        -58
World Bank                                                                                                                9/28/98



- 50 -
Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
Poland
Hard Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
Time Table of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                     15 months
Project prepared by:                       Government with IBRD Assistance
First IBRD Mission:                        February 1998
Departure of Appraisal Mission:            February 1999
Negotiations:                              April 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness:             July 1999
List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:           Not applicable



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 05/17/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Poland
Operations Portfolio
As of 17-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 13
Active Projects
PL-PE-55988    1999   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND               WHOLESALE MKT. II                       11.12        0.00        0.00              10.90        1.34        0.00
PL-PE-8616      1999   POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM         WHLSLE MARKETS PRJ I                    15.90        0.00        0.00              10.90        3.49        0.00
PL-PE-35082     1998   BISE AND PBK                     MUNICIPAL FINANCE                        22.00        0.00        0.00              20.22        8.77        0.00
PL-PE-53796    1998   GOVT. OF POLAND                    FLOOD EMERGENCY                        200.00        0.00        0.00             171.58       97.72        0.00
PL-PE-8593      1998   MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT             ROADS II                               300.00        0.00        0.00             292.59       18.56        0.00
PL-PE-36061    1997   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND               PORT ACCESS & MGMT.                     67.00        0.00        0.00              51.70        5.43        0.00
PL-PE-8595      1996   BIELSKO-BIALA AQUA S.A.           BIELSKO-BIALA WATER                     21.50        0.00        0.00              12.83        9.66        0.00
PL-PE-8604      1996   POLISH POWER GRID CO              POWER TRANSMISSION                     160.00        0.00        0.00             103.74       45.42        0.00
PL-PE-8614      1995   KATOWICE DISTRICT HEATING         KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY                    45.00        0.00        0.00              26.28       24.77        0.00
PL-PE-8610      1994   GOVT. OF POLAND                   FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                   146.00        0.00       42.00               2.46       17.19        2.45
PL-PE-8599      1993   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                ROADS                                  150.00        0.00        0.00               2.00         .67        0.00                     I
PL-PE-8587      1992   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                HEALTH                                 130.00        0.00       30.00              41.27       69.97       41.29
PL-PE-8590      1992   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                HOUSING                                200.00        0.00      180.00               9.12      189.11        9.12                    *n
PL-PE-8571      1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT                   280.00        0.00       47.28              63.75      111.04       63.76 6
PL-PE-8576      1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY           HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT                   340.00        0.00      137.50              17.06      154.49       15.66
PL-PE-8582      1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION                   100.00        0.00       20.00               6.38       26.38        6.38
Total                                                                                         2,188.52        0.00      456.78             842.78      784.01      138.66
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 867.62            1,968.14            2,835.76
of which has been repaid:                139.60              475.07              614.67
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,592.14            1,496.93            3,089.07
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              842.78                3.86              846.64
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:                                                                                                                                                                                      X  n
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.                                                                               o  ¢
G  1
N0 m
Generated by die Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                Page I



- 52 -                                        Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
Poland
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1990                  EDB-Piotr Ostrow         .05    0.00    0.00    0.00      .05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  CHEMAGEV                 .45    0.00    0.00    0.00      .45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  Philips Poland          3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  BONA                    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Huta Warszawa          29.66    0.00    4.50    0.00   13.59    0.00    3.75    0.00
1993                  PEF-Poland              0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.67    0.00    0.00
1993                  Sandoglass             16.06    0.00    8.27    6.77   16.06    0.00    8.27    6.77
1994                  Peters                  5.58    0.00    1.00    0.00    5.58    0.00      .88    0.00
1995                  Globi Retailing         0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Nesky                   0.00     .50    1.87    0.00    0.00      .50    1.87    0.00
1995/97/98            Intercell               0.00   11.51    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.51    0.00    0.00
1996                  Baltic Malt             5.12    1.94    0.00    0.00    5.12    1.87    0.00    0.00
1996                  Pam Bank               15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/97               Gaspol                  0.00    5.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.98    0.00    0.00
1997                  CPF                     0.00    1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00      .58    0.00    0.00
1997                  Norgips                10.68    0.00    0.00   20.10   10.68    0.00    0.00   20.10
1998                  Global Hotels           0.00    3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00
1998                  Izopol                  0.00    1.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.93    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   87.65   39.23   15.64   26.87   61.58   36.71   14.77   26.87
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eq!y Quasi  Partic
1997                  AMERBANK                8.00    0.00    7.00    0.00
1998                  BWP (BANK WP)           4.99    2.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  GLOBAL HOTELS           3.20    0.00    4.00    0.00
1998                  PAROC POLSKA            6.90    0.00    0.00    7.40
Total Pending Commitment:          23.09    2.00   11.00    7.40
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 05/17/99



MAP SECTION



140                               160                               18'                                                                 22                                          24
RU5SIAN                                                                              POLAND
Gd,olfGo dans!                         ,                                LTUAI                           HARD COAL SECTOR
0Sfopsk  Gdynia~~~~(~                                                                                   ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Gdonsk~~)Wb                                                                                       p     IMPORTANT HARD COAL
> aIIg                                                Suoeafki                  -       4                       B SN
I'            ~~~~Olsztyn7
10?    Goleniow                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMPORTANT HARD COAL BASINS
o                                                                                                                                                                i'                         EXPORTING PORTS
1 ,>QS'zczecin
M wAJOR PORTS
1'                                 1                                                                 L~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omza  - Biailystoka     SECTDIISANTO S
Pio            Byc1goszcz(                                                                   a-  1,I0                                                      SLCE CTE   N   ON
®  ToruIe6~J                                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS
I   ;r Rr6o,                                                -Cehns0I                                                                                                         I                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
eQ   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~~--~~~~~~~~-                                -)                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   ~~~~~~RIV ERS
Plock    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~00CANALS
Wioclawek'  ---P,0 rck                                                              BELARUS               -    - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Pozna~i (~                                                   eN
-Warsaw"
Konin                      ~~~~~~~(Wa rsza wa)*,                Siedlce 
0~~~~~~~~
G6ra 0                Leszno                                                              0
0~~~~~~
0                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sieradz0" Tyunik                                 -'     Lbi
O\  ~~~~~~~~~\                                          s~~~~~~~~~. ~~~ Piotrkdow o            Radom 0                                   (orC      4
Leqni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a o  ~~~~~~                                      ~~0cheIs,
:'~~~         ~ Jelenins                   retw"
Gora 0    SILESIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C k0e
t<  <'  ~~C~0                         25         750 Kilometer
~~       Op e    ~~~~~UPPER                                                          I
Opole ~~~~~  ~   reSILESIA                         }O~~~~~~    Tarnobrze~1
*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               *' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWDE                                                                   V.~~(         RUSSIAN
CZECH    ~~~~~~~~~(                                                     Rzeszow  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      /     50              '2                               k FEDERATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FDEATO
-50'          R     P     B    I,                                                                -        ®KrakI6w             Dered             0                                         0o-t0LITr?o HUANIA
o                                Krosno             6-~~~~~~~~~~~1                                            B-ELARUS 
ielsko,~ ~~~~~~~~r~n   rzmkl/UKRAINE    -'fWoo                                                                                         -.
Thi- mp osProd-cd by the Map BnoUo,tdo Th. Word R-ok                               PBOLAN.                                                                  / 
The b-ood-ie, -olor, d      -oitosad-oy other io/r-o,oo -c                                                                                                                                GERMAtNY 
Ahe 000 Isr mp do not isply., -the p-,oof Th. Word Book                                                             '   S  OC7%"'                                                                   .          ~/               URAN
jo,,zyidg-ont -o the leg.l etos dofry t-irrory or-y                                                                                                                                               x-  I  -                  UKRIN
Oro,oo  orocpOn  fsd  ooois              ~CZECH
.-pt-  f -1, b-do, i-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -REP                                                                                                                                                             -5-
AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                                               /    tECHT               RE
f            CICT\SLO AK             R E PU BL I C              * 2 
j,  ~~~~      16'                                    18                                    20,                                    22~UTI  ~HNAY    ROMANIA
I                                                                                                                   _______________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WTZ  UGAY17' c



IBRD 30179
A»NORWAY"  A                                  N
SWEDE                          ~~~~~~~RUSSIAN
(~~   ~~Q        5,  FEDERATION
fi  '  LAYVIA                                           ~~~~~~POLAND
2 1 FED[MON ~                                        j                     HARD COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
B< 00ELAR -UeS    t            v <   COAL MINING CONCESSIONS,                                                                     a---
PA                                                            UPPER SILESIABCOALLBASIN                            _--             i--S- ---- -                                             i
GERMANY                                                                                                Akbi JURAIND 1 10AsffgF=_
.1 .                                                                                      - !                                                      -                                                                                                 9
CZECH                             URAIEP
-.INERANY       2AT   IH    ONAL        B UKDARE._ . OBEQIDAE NDER HRGA
REP,BLI -
sWITZ         n  AUSA           HUNGARY          ROMANIADARY
LOWER SILESIA COAL BASIN
o                *ZWPAMra-yA t-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '-
G..o                        OWPIIb,,ych 
-Ty6y                                             O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CI,r-o6w
CZECH  REPUBLIC                            NMR,d,UEY
~    N.- ,R,,d,                            I                                                                                                                                                     COAL JOINT STOCK COMPANI ESCONCESSIONS:
0   2.      7.5 ID                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,5                             I   emCapIIaIOup
LJL..LJ                                                                                                                                                                              Rud~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o CspIIaI Orcu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~udi  aptl ru
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0  IIwckoS,W,ISA.
If                                                                                                                                                                                                             KcitowFc. Capial Oroup
I                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jostrupika W11A.
EXPERIMEENTAL RESEARCH MINE CONCESSIONS
S.A. CONCESSION BOUNDARIES                                         ISINGLE MINE COMPANY CONCESSIONS
* MINE SHAFTS
O    SELECTED CYITIS                                                                                                                                                              0C-,ho,W
® NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                              MINER UNDER LIQUIDATION AND
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                      T  BE LIQUIDATED UNDER THE PROGRAM
CZECH REPUBLIC
5,,,s,a,PN&,dD, 'M,'TE~~~~~~,H" U,;,NID, SMAA,,k                                                               U~~~~  2.5   5   7.5  10                                            __   MINING CONCESSION BOUNDARIES
~~ ,,L,,,~~~~~~~~~,,fl,w,,R,,,k ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                                                                            - --FORMER BOUNDARIES OF MERGED NINES
---AFPROXIMATE BOUNDARY
OF UFPER S LESIA COAL ASARA
MAY TA



