Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22422
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44900; TF-25706)
ONA
HARD COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE POLISH HARD COAL MINING SECTOR
06/22/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performice of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bk autwizaion  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Zloty (PLN)
4.04 PLN = US$ I
US$ I = .2475 PLN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                - Country Assistance Strategy
ECA                - Europe and Central Asia
EU                 - European Union
GAP                - Mining Labor Agency
ICR                - Implementation Completion Report
IMCSC              - Inter Ministerial Coal Steering Committee
LSDP               - Letter of Sector Development Policy
MoE                - Ministry of Economy
MoEP               - Ministry of Environmental Protection
MoF                - Ministry of Finance
MoLSP              - Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MoST               - Ministry of Statei Treasury
MSPs               - Miners Social Packages
NGO                - Non Governmental Organization
PARG               - State Hard Coal Mining Restructuring Company
PIC                - Public Information and Communications Campaign
PLN                - Polish Zloty
PSF                - Privatization Strategic Framework
SEA                - Sector Environmental Assessment
SECAL              - Sector Adjustment Loan
SPA                - Sector Privatization Assessment
TPY                - Tons Per Year
VAT                - Value Added Tax
ZUS                - Social Insurance Fund of Poland
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Michael F. Carter
Country Anchor:   Christopher L. Hall
Sector Manager/Director:   Henk Busz
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   John E. Strongman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
HARD COAL SECAL
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     8
6. Sustainability                                                                         9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Information                                                              14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   24
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                     25
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                    48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P057957                                      Project Name: HARD COAL SECAL
Team Leader: John E. Strongman                          TL Unit: CMNPO
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: June 25, 2001
1. Project Data
Name. HARD COAL SECAL                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-44900; TF-25706
Country/Department: POLAND                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/18/1998                             Effective:
Appraisal:  01/20/1999                              MTR:
Approval:  06/10/1999                             Closing: 09/30/2000         09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF POLAND/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                        Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Henk Busz                                Henk Busz
Team Leader at ICR:   John E. Strongman                       John E. Strongman
ICR Primary Author:   Christopher Gilbert Sheldon
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Background and Introduction
Hard coal represents the backbone of the Polish energy sector providing over 60 % of total primary energy
consumption in Poland and about two thirds of power sector fuel supplies, and accounts for almost 4% of
GDP. Poland's hard coal sector has suffered very large and increasing losses during the 1990's reaching
PLN 4.2 billion (US$1.2 billion equivalent) and PLN 3.2 billion (US$0.8 equivalent) in 1998 and 1999
respectively, and has become a severe drain on the government budget because it has failed to adjust to
shrinking domestic demand and sharply declining export sales and prices. Domestic demand declined from



102 million tons in 1997 to 84 million tons in 1999, and export prices declined from PLN 100 per ton in
1997 to PLN 87 per ton in 1999. The sector is also a major polluter that fails to pay its environmental fees
and fines which had reached over US$ibillion. To stop these losses and prepare the sector to compete
within the European Union, the Government made reform of the sector one of its highest priorities and put
in place a comprehensive Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program (the Program).
The Government's Program as approved on June 1998 provided for closure of about 19% (25.5 million
tons) of coal mining production capacity and a reduction of about 43% of the workforce (105,000 persons)
over the period 1999-2002. To facilitate and encourage the work force reduction needed, the Program
provided a significant package of social support measures which was introduced in June 1998. A greater
than expected fall in the demand for coal in 1999 resulted in coal sector losses remaining very high. As a
result the Government revised the Program in December 1999 to provide deeper reforms in employment
and coal production capacity reduction, to reduce costs and address the supply demand imbalance.
Cash costs of the Program are estimated at about US$2 billion over the period 1998 to 2002 consisting of
about US$1.5 billion for severance costs and US$0.5 billion for physical mine closure costs.The
Government has requested the Bank to assist the Government's budget in financing up to half of the cash
costs of the Program . An initial loan (Hard Coal SECAL) of EUR 280.13 (US$300 million equivalent)
was approved in June 1999 (Loan 4490-POL) and was fully disbursed to the Government's budget in
September 2000. Board presentation of a second loan (Hard Coal SECAL 2) for a further USS100 million
equivalent is scheduled for July 24, 2001 and a third loan (US$300 million equivalent SECAL 3) is
included in the FY 2003 lending program.
This is an intensive learning ICR. The results of the survey of beneficiaries and stakeholder workshop are
included in Annexes 8 and 9. The main finding is that the Project has been very successful in providing
financial assistance to miners wanting to leave the sector and in improving environmental performance, but
less successful in job creation.The survey included interviews with a wide range on stakeholders. We give
an example of an interview with a homemaker below. She tells how the support package to miners has been
helpful to the family but that new employment is still a problem. Follow up surveys indicate that most
miners who took a package are satisfied with their decision.
Sample Response from a Homemaker.
1. How many members are in your household?
4
2. What does your daily work involve?
I am housewife taking care of the family and children. I have never been employed or self-employed.
Children go to school and need to be brought up and taken care of.
3. You have certainly talked with your husband andfriends about recent developments in the coal mining
sector. What, in your opinion can be considered a success of the reform program (looking from your
family perspective)?
Husband has taken a miner's leave severance package. Has worked more than 22 years under the ground
suffered from ill health during the last two years, so it was doubtful that he would continue to work until
retirement. Opportunity to take up miner's leave severance package helped to stabilize and secure the
situation of the entire family.
4. What are the failures of the coal mining reform, primarily those that affected yourself (your close
-2 -



relations) directly?
The fact that the period of reform implementation ended with high unemployment and lack ofjobs for
wives of the miners who left mines. Family incomes dropped by 25%.
5. If you were to decide, what changes would you introduce to the coal mining sector reform?
Opportunities to freely find new employment outside mines for people who took miners' leaves severance
packages.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objectives are consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Poland
and comprise: (i) promoting structural reform and helping start the process of privatization in a major
state-owned sector; (ii) rationalizing the role of the State and improving corporate governance arrangements
in the sector; and (iii) helping mitigate the effects of the industry reform on local communities, and provide
support for retraining and improving the employment prospects of workers leaving the industry.
The project development objectives are based on supporting the Government to implement the Hard
Coal Sector Restructuring Program as approved by the Government in June 1998. The overall objective of
the Govermment Program is to restore profitability of the sector in a socially and environmentally
acceptable manner. Specifically, the Program focuses on four key elements: (i) restructuring and
rationalization of the sector's labour force; (ii) reducing production capacity; (iii) financial restructuring;
and (iv) improving management and corporate governance. It also puts strong emphasis on improving
environmental protection and increasing competition consistent with requirements as defined by the
European Union, and introducing privatization.
More specifically, the Restructuring Program, established the following targets as outlined below.
The targets were slightly modified in the Revised Program which was approved in December 1999:
i   Coal companies should obtain a positive result from operations, at the latest, by the end of year 2000.
This was revised to the end of 2001 in the Revised Program;
*   Production capacity of the coal mining sector will be reduced by approximately 25.5 million tons of
annual production by the year 2002 (from about 137 million TPY capacity in mid 1998). This was
revised to a total reduction of 35.5 millions in the Revised Program;
*   Employment in the coal mining sector will be reduced, through a voluntary program, to about 138,000
employees by the end of 2002 (from about 243,000 employees at end 1997 ). This was revised to
128,000 employees in the Revised Program;
*   Environmental management practices are to be improved to ensure that the sector becomes
environmentally sustainable. The Revised Program introduced a time frame of five years for the sector
to comply with environmental requirements; and
*   The Revised Program specifies that the coal companies should be privatized following restructuring.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the Bank project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The objectives of the project were implemented through the following seven project components.
1. Employment Restructuring and Social Packages
- 3 -



The core of the Program consists of employment restructuring in the coal mines based on voluntary
departures. The Govemment wished to ensure that there was an adequate safety net in place to support all
persons who would become unemployed as a result of the restructuring of the coal sector and had put in
place a comprehensive set of financial support measures, active labour market services and measures to
assist all unemployed workers in the mining regions and to encourage the development of new employment
activities outside the mining industry. Central to the restructuring was the Miners Social Package (MSP)
which comprised a range of options designed to encourage workers to leave the mines. These options
included: (i) a Miners Leave Severance Package consisting of up to five years of salary/wages to encourage
voluntary early retirement of eligible underground miners and coal washing plant workers, (ii) a Social
Allowance Package consisting of a two year wages allowance paid to workers that are interested in
re-employment outside of the mining sector, a single free training or retraining course, and job search
assistance to find altemate employment, and (iii) an Unconditional Lump Sum departure incentive
consisting of a one time payment given to workers who are willing to leave their employment in the mine.
The size of these incentives reduces gradually over time. The Program's objective was supported by second
tranche release conditions including the acceptance of Lump Sum Packages by at least 18,000 workers
since the start of the Program.
2. Capacity Restructuring
Under the original Program, reduction of production to match demand involved liquidation of 25.5 million
tons of capacity (about 19% of total capacity). A further reduction of 10 million tons capacity is planned
under the Revised Program, bring the total reduction to 35.5 million tons through 2002. This will involve
(a) complete closure of 23 mines and (b) shutting down large parts of other mines and uneconomic
production faces and levels. Thus, from 63 mines in 1998, 42 mines remained active by the end of 2000
with two more to be closed in years 2001 and 2002. The Govemment's target under the Program was
supported by the second tranche release condition of terminating production at 4 whole mines and
completing the closure of 5 mines.
3. Financial Restructuring
The Program provides for rescheduling or forgiveness of liabilities to Government and government
institutions including environmental funds - but not commercial liabilities. For the mining companies to be
eligible for this debt restructuring they must meet certain criteria including meeting current liabilities due to
the Social Insurance Fund (ZUS), the Labour Fund and the Fund for Guaranteed Workers Benefits in a
timely manner. The Program also aims to bring the sector to financial profitability by 2002. The loan
conditionality was designed to ensure that creditors were fully consulted in the financial restructuring
process and ensured that the draft financial restructuring plans for each mining company were provided for
review to the Inter Ministerial Coal Steering Committee (IMCSC) before submission to the Ministry of
Economy (which acts as shareholder for the government).
4. Management Strengthening
The mining companies operate as autonomous, independent companies supervised by independent
Supervisory Boards (Board of Directors) appointed by the shareholder. Management Boards (i.e.
Presidents and Vice Presidents) were appointed with four year employment contracts, for the period
1999-2002. These management contracts contain incentives based on financial performance, cost reduction
and enviromnental performance. As part of the Program, the mining companies prepared four-year business
plans (for 1999-2002). The business plans also served as an important input for the Government's
- 4 -



assessment of the strength of Company management and for deciding on management appointments. In
addition, annual operating plans are prepared each year which provide the basis for implementing the
business plans. Loan conditions included the appointment of new supervisory boards with at least one full
time member and that costs per ton be reduced by 1.5% in nominal terms (equivalent to about 9% in real
terms) from the first 9 months of 1998 to the first 9 months of 1999. The governance and the management
of the sector was improved by the second tranche release condition which required reconstitution of the
Supervisory Board for each company and approval by the shareholder of satisfactory Year 2000 operating
plans for each mining company.
5. Environmental Improvements
The most significant environmental problem is saline water discharges. Other significant issues include
land use damage from surface disposal of mine wastes, land subsidence, and releases of coal bed methane.
To address the above issues, actions were targeted at three levels. Firstly, the mining companies prepared
business plans which include environmental management issues. Secondly, the Ministry of Environmental
Protection (MoEP) conducted a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) using technical assistance funds
from the on-going Privatization and Restructuring Project (Loan 3342-POL). The findings of the SEA were
introduced into the mining company operating plans for the Year 2000. Thirdly, The MoEP, with the
concurrence of the Voivod Environmental Departments, and the State and Voivod Ecological Funds, will
review the environmental management plans and action programs, and will provide approval, once satisfied
about the feasibility and effectiveness of the Companies' action programs. It is only after this approval is
secured, that various environmental liabilities of the mining company would be waived and/or restructured.
6. Privatization
Privatization was specifically identified in the Revised Program as one of the tools to achieve the Program's
longer term objectives. The Government has emphasized its commitment to privatization of the industry in
the Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP).  The Government agreed to prepare a Sector
Privatization Assessment (SPA) under the project in order to develop its privatization strategy for the
mining companies. The Government also undertook to privatize two individual mines (Bogdanka and
Budryk) during the Program. The privatization efforts of the Government were supported by the loan
conditions including preparation of the SPA and progress in preparing Budryk and Bogdanka for
privatization.
7. Regional Development and Monitoring
The social impacts of the Program are being addressed through the Miners Social Package, retraining and
labour support services, and through emphasizing the need for a coordinated approach in the context of
regional development of Upper Silesia. To ensure strong coordination with regional authorities,
representatives of the Katowice Voivodship and the local government are members of the Inter-Ministerial
Coal Steering Committee for coal restructuring. The Program also fosters cooperation between the mining
company and the local administrations (Gminas) in respect to dealing with past liabilities to the gminas as
well as opportunities arising from the closure of mines and the reclamation of abandoned mine sites. The
government has also taken steps to ensure that the Program implementation is coordinated with the new
powiats (county governments) which were established effective January 1, 1999, as part of the regional
administrative reform. Multiple approaches are being used to monitor the social impact of restructuring
including labour and social assistance data, follow up surveys of workers taking social packages and
general labour market surveys and divestiture of social infrastructure. In addition, the Government has
mounted a Public Information and Communications (PIC) campaign, including public opinion surveys, to
- 5-



facilitate program implementation and gauge general public awareness and understanding of the Program.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions were made to the components of the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory. Project design was consistent with World Bank experience in
the sector. Ownership of the Project by Government and the commitment of Government to the objectives
of the Project were very strong. Project risks were well identified at entry and steps were taken to mitigate
risks where possible. The main risks to the Program were opposition from workers, insufficient funds for
MSP's, failure of the companies to become profitable and slow action to implement environmental
improvements.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The first and second tranches of the SECAL were released
with full compliance of tranche conditions and with no extension of the project closing date. Substantial
progress was made regarding employment and capacity restructuring which exceeded original expectations.
Corporate management and govemance improved. The Sector Privatization Assessment was completed.
There was a significant improvement in environmental management practices as a result of the Sector
Environmental Assessment. The main risk that proved substantial was the failure to improve profitability in
line with the original Program targets - which was due to the drop in demand and prices in 1999. The
mining companies were not able to pay all their taxes and fees to government entities in 1999 and 2000 and
a hard budget constraint could not be sustained. Also limited progress was made regarding financial
restructuring. A second risk that was realized was that insufficient funds were available in 1998 and 1999
to meet all of the very large demand for MSPs, which greatly exceeded the original projections. Even so,
employment downsizing greatly exceeded expectations and labor cost reductions were far greater than
expected.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs for each of the seven project components are discussed below.
1. Employment Restructuring and Miners Social Packages (MSP's)
The second tranche release condition of 18,000 lump sum MSP's was accomplished in October 1999, at
which time total coal industry employment was reduced by 57,000 workers to 186,000. Audits have
confirmed that all funds were properly accounted for. At the time the loan closed in September 2000,
(24,000) lump sum packages had been accepted and total employment was reduced by 83,000 workers to
160,000 - a very substantial accomplishment.
2. Capacity Restructuring
Five mines were liquidated and production was terminated at a further 5 mines, one more than was required
for second tranche release. Production was also terminated at 3 partial mines. This is also a very
substantial accomplishment. Audits have confirmed that all funds were properly accounted for.
3. Financial Restructuring
The mining companies' financial restructuring plans were reviewed by the IMCSC. However, most
companies have been unable to take advantage of the financial restructuring provisions of the Program due
to their inability to remain current on liabilities to Government, a condition of debt forgiveness. Revenues
in 1999 dropped by 15% in nominal terms (25% in real terms). In response companies made major
- 6 -



efficiency improvements and costs in 1999 were reduced by 4% in nominal terms (14% in real terms)
partly offsetting the drop in revenue and as noted in Section 2 the Government provided deeper
restructuring by revising the Program. The program called for the industry to achieve a positive result on
coal sales in Year 1999. This was not realized in that year, but was achieved in Year 2000.
4. Management Strengthening
The organizational structure of Management Boards and Supervisory Boards has proved effective in the
management of the sector. The accountability of management was improved through the use of company
business plans and annual operating plans. Performance was improved through the use of incentives
contained in the management contracts, consistent with the Program objectives. The supervisory board of
each mining company was reconstituted on January 1, 2000, including the appointment of one full time
supervisory board member for each company, as required under the Loan.
5. Environmental Improvements
As a result of the Sector Enviromnental Assessment the mining sector now has mine by mine environmental
management plans. Pollution from saline water discharges and dumping of waste have been substantially
reduced. The Ministry of Environment is an active partner in the Inter-ministerial Coal Steering Committee.
The Government's efforts to improve environmental performance were supported by the second tranche
release conditions which required reduction in the total saline content of water discharges and the quantity
of solid waste disposal by 10% each for the first 9 months of 1999 compared with the same period in 1997
and the aggregate amount of fees and fines for solid waste disposal being reduced at least by 5% for the
first 9 months of 1999 compared with the same period in 1998. The sector environmental performance was
even better than required under the second tranche conditionality. Total saline content of water discharges
and the quantity of solid waste generated were lower by 15% and 17% respectively for the first 9 months of
1999 compared to those of the same period in 1997. The aggregate amount of fees and fines assessed on
the Mining Companies for solid waste surface discharges were 8% lower for the first 9 months of 1999
compared to those for the same period in 1998. In June 2001, the project was one of only five projects
Bank wide to receive a World Bank "Green Award" for its environmental achievements.
6. Privatization
The SPA was useful in focusing industry and govemment attention on privatization and all that it entails,
and it outlines the next steps needed to prepare the sector for privatization. However a main conclusion
was that more restructuring would be needed before privatization could be undertaken and the SPA does
not provide an implementable privatization strategy. With regard to the two individual mines, good
progress has been made for Bogdanka but less for Budryk. The information memorandum has been
prepared and issued for Bogdanka. Four expressions of interest have been received and due diligence work
is taking place. Start of preparation of the information memorandum for Budryk was delayed for several
months due to a dispute with the tax authorities, but preparation is now well advanced. A third mine,
Jaworzno, was purchased by a local power company and will be privatized along with the associated power
plant.
7. Regional Development and Monitoring
The Upper Silesia region, where most coal mines are located, experienced high economic growth rates and
until very recently had unemployment well below the national average. These factors helped to ease the
social impact of the Program. Employment counselling, job placement and retraining services assisted
workers in finding new employment. Retraining was assisted by EU PHARE funding and included
equipping former miners with specific skills and licences required for new employment in areas such as
warehousing, driving and security. Business incubators, employment incentives and micro-credit schemes
assisted job creation. However for the region as a whole the loss of jobs presently exceeds new jobs. This is
- 7 -



an important area for further attention by Government.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The SECAL and the work of the Bank were instrumental in achieving the inclusiveness and effectiveness of
the Inter-Ministerial Coal Steering Committee. This committee brought together the Ministry of Economy,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, Ministry of the Treasury and the Ministry
of Environment. Most importantly the Ministry of Environment is an active member of the IMCSC and
environmental issues are now given much greater priority in the sector. Local Governments (Gminas) have
been strengthened by taking responsibility for social assets and services such as kindergartens and
hospitals, that used to be owned and managed by the mining companies. Regional planning of
infrastructure and project development has also been improved through the inclusion of the new powiats
(county governments) in coordinating program implementation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There are two key factors outside Government control namely (1) the overall employment market and (2)
the market for coal. The Government cannot control the employment market and while employment
restructuring has been successful the overall employment market in Silesia has declined. At the beginning
of 1999, the unemployment rate in Silesia at 8% was less than Poland's country average of 11.4%. In 1999
and 2000 unemployment throughout Poland increased, and the overall unemployment rate in Poland at end
2000 was 15%. Unemployment in Silesia increased at a more rapid rate than in the country as a whole over
this same period, though at 12.8% it was still lower than the country average. Although unemployment in
the Silesia region is high and rising, the share of miners in total unemployment is rather small, and
declining. Currently, ex-miners account for only 3.1% of all registered unemployed, down from some 4-5
percent observed in earlier periods. Labour surveys indicate that in Silesia the decline in employment
is higher than average due to lower than average job creation rather than job destruction.
Government has taken initiatives to improve the rate of job creation, but the findings of the ICR workshop
(Annex 9) indicate more will need to be done in the future. The second key factor is the market for coal.
The Government is committed to the free trade and pricing of coal as evidenced by their Letter of Sector
Development Policy. Demand for coal and prices are outside the control of Government and subject to
market forces. The demand and price for coal fell in 1999 causing significant financial difficulty for the
mining companies. Prices stabilized after companies cut production to address the supply/demand
imbalance. The Government responded well to the drop in prices in 1999 by proposing a Revised Program
with deeper employment and capacity restructuring. But because of the poor financial performance and the
voluntary nature of redundancies, the government was unable to sustain a hard budget constraint for the
industry.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government designed and approved the Program, including the incentive mechanisms to encourage
workers to leave the sector, the amount of production capacity to be closed, the conditions for financial
restructuring, and general sector policy on privatization and environment. The commitment of Government
to the Program has been strong. In particular, the Government held firm to its commitment on mine closure
despite very considerable worker and union opposition. However, more rapid progress could have been
- 8 -



achieved regarding employment restructuring, privatization and financial restructuring. When demand for
the MSP's in 1998 and 1999 exceeded the funds available, initiatives were taken to mobilize additional
funds from mining companies and from funds under control of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection, but the Ministry of Finance was not willing to release additional budgetary funds for MSP's and
some applicants were unable to obtain packages. With regard to privatization the Ministry of State
Treasury was slow to complete the necessary administrative steps to start the Sector Privatization
Assessment. The SPA was the final second tranche condition to be completed and delayed the release of the
second tranche by several months. Also a dispute with the tax office delayed start of preparing Budryk for
privatization. Both these factors have delayed progress in preparing the sector for privatization. As
mentioned in Section 4.2.2 most companies were unable to take advantage of the financial restructuring
provisions and Government efforts to make these provisions more achievable for the companies have had
limited effect so far.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Economy (MoE), as shareholder, has the authority to appoint and dismiss company
Presidents, and approves the company business plans. The MoE exercised strong control over the
companies.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no major changes to project costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely.
The employment downsizing, mine closures, and environmental improvements are all considered
sustainable. The Government's Restructuring Program involves the permanent severance of coal industry
workers and the irreversible closure of complete mines and parts of mines. Workers who accept a
redundancy package are not eligible for rehire. In addition the industry has a moratorium on hiring new
coal workers except for certain special skills and obligatory hires (such as young miners returning from
military service). The mines to be closed and closure plans have been reviewed by independent experts who
have confirmed the irreversibility of the closures and the closure of capacity is verified by an independent
regulatory authority in Poland. The preparation of mine by mine environmental management plans and the
better infornation available and increased involvement of the environmental authorities should help ensure
the sustainability of environmental improvements in the sector. By closing excess capacity and laying off
surplus workers, supply and demand can be brought back into balance, prices strengthened, efficiency
increased and costs reduced which should help restore profitability on coal operations. Financial
restructuring provisions will help address past financial liabilities so that by the end of the program the
industry is able to operate on an overall profitable basis with no direct or indirect government subsidies in a
sustained manner.  The final step of the reform process is privatization which should ensure the
sustainability of the reforrns.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government Program runs from 1998 to 2002. Further reforms will be necessary to close non-viable
mines and reduce the labor force so that the viable mines can be privatized. SECAL 2 continues the same
core objectives and components as SECAL I with revised targets in accordance with the Government's
Revised Program. As discussed in Section 3 above the revised Program increased employment restructuring
and capacity restructuring but delayed profitability expectations by one year. Project performance
monitoring and social impact monitoring will continue in SECAL 2 which also includes improved financial
-9-



performance and endorsement of a Privatization Strategic Framework (PSF). A third SECAL is also
programmed. This would help support further employment restructuring and capacity closure, and
implementation of privatization.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank responded quickly to the request of the Government
and took a pragmatic approach to the Project. The Bank was not in favor of the high cost of the MSP's but
accepted the Government position that the MSP's had been agreed with the Trade Unions and could not be
modified. The Bank took a comprehensive and realistic approach to sector reformn and the second tranche
conditionality was designed to support progress in six main areas - employment restructuring, capacity
restructuring, financial restructuring,   mining company institutional strengthening, environmental
improvements, and privatization.  The Bank placed particular emphasis on the need to strengthen the
environmental and privatization aspects of the Program and supported the Government in undertaking a
Sector Environmental Assessment and a Sector Privatization Assessment. In preparing the project, the
Bank also conducted an in depth review of the mining company business plans and closure activities which
are critical to the successful implementation of the Reform Program.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank team conducted supervision missions on an almost
monthly basis including quarterly reviews with each mining company of its performance. The Bank also
conducted an in depth follow up mission to monitor progress in implementing the mining companies
business plans and closure activities which resulted in identifying significant cost savings and efficiency
improvements for the mining companies. The Bank worked very closely and cooperatively with all its
counterparts in five ministries, seven mining companies and the State Hard Coal Mining company. The
Bank team designed a monthly 'scorecard' which was completed by the industry and recorded performance
on all aspects of the Program. The scorecard allowed ready monitoring of employment, production, sales,
financial and environmental performance. It was very effective in focusing the discussion with the mining
companies on key performance issues, and in analyzing actual to planned performance.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance is rated as satisfactory. The successful working relationship between the Bank team
and its counterparts contributed to the second tranche of the loan being released by the original closing date
with full compliance.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance in preparing the plan is considered satisfactory. The plan was extensively
discussed with the Trade Unions and the key elements were fully agreed prior to approval by the Council of
Ministers. The Bank carefully scrutinize the plan before agreeing to prepare the SECAL. While the Bank
considered the mining social packages to be more generous than necessary, this was not considered a
sufficient shortcoming to prevent the Bank from supporting the program. The Borrower also responded
positively during project preparation to Bank proposals regarding actions to improve project
implementation arrangements, and strengthen the environmental and privatization aspects of the Program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is considered satisfactory. Implementation of the employment
restructuring, capacity restructuring and environmental improvements has been very successful, although
- 10 -



there has been slower progress regarding financial performance and restructuring. Faced by the poor
financial performance in 1999, the Government moved quickly to take new initiatives to improve the
situation which were included in the Revised Program. Financial performance is improving, but remains
very dependent on coal prices which are set in the market place. Privatization has also moved more slowly
than expected, partly because of the inconclusive results of the SPA. Government has recently prepared and
endorsed a Privatization Strategic Framework (PSF) for the sector as a condition of the upcoming SECAL
2 loan. The PSF is being discussed with the social partners (trade unions).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Ministry of Economy was the lead implementing agency for the program and MoE performance is
considered satisfactory. The MoE, with support from the Bank, closely monitored the performance of the
mining companies to ensure that the plan was well implemented.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Experience in other countries, including industrialized countries such as United Kingdom and transition
economies such as the Russian Federation and Ukraine, indicate that the restructuring, downsizing and
privatization of a large State-owned coal mining industry is an extremely difficult task that takes many
years to accomplish. Thus far the Borrower has made substantial achievements in terms of sector reform
and Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The followin2 lessons may help with continued implementation of the Coal Sector Reform or
implementation of similar sectoral reforms in Poland or other countries.
1. The Government's comprehensive approach to coal sector reform has been generally successful and
should be maintained
2. The establishment and regular meetings of the IMCSC provides a very useful forum for all the different
government ministries to monitor implementation and address implementation issues in a coordinated
manner. It should be maintained.
3. The present Program has provided a very positive start to coal sector reform in Poland but there are
strong indications that further employment restructuring and mine closure beyond that in the present
Program will be needed to get to a fully viable and privatizable industry. A new plan for further
capacity and employment reduction should be developed during the final year of the present Program.
4. While very successful so far, the voluntary employment restructuring has slowed considerably and (as
in other countries) new miners' social packages will likely be needed to get a significant further
reduction in industry employment. In addition to incentives for workers to leave the sector, job creation
in the regional economy is an equally if not more important priority, as emphasized by the comments in
the ICR Stakeholder Workshop.
5. The most difficult aspect of the restructuring is to achieve improved financial performance and apply a
hard budget constraint successfully. The application of the hard budget constraint will need very
careful attention.
6. The financial performance of the industry depends very much on coal prices. If prices fall sharply, then
more subsidies will be needed. In this context, the earlier that privatization is accomplished, the more
quickly the government will be able to transfer the price risk to private owners and operators and
protect itself and the taxpayer from the risk of further subsidies.
7. Government needs to very carefully consider the risks of privatizing the better mines first, since this
could result in a large residual of mines that are unattractive to private investors, too large to close
- 11 -



quickly but requiring large subsidies to continue operating.
8. The extensive dialogue undertaken between the Govermnent and the Trade Unions supported the design
of an employment restructuring and mine closure program that could be effectively and successfully
implemented. This type of dialogue will also be a key element for designing the privatization of the
industry and any further employment restructuring and mine closures that may be needed beyond that
in the present Program
9. Prior to the reform, information about the industry was strictly controlled, thereby hindering the
imposition of financial discipline and implementation of environmental improvements. There would be
considerable benefit in Government ensuring that information about state industries is readily available
to all branches of government and to civil society.
Lessons Learned which might be useful for future Bank Operations to support coal sector reform in
Poland ( or similar reforms in other countries)
1. A Sector Adjustment operation (SECAL) can be a very useful instrument to support comprehensive
sector reform. Such operations require significant resources for both preparation and supervision if
they are to be able to provide in depth coverage of all the aspects involved (typically social,
environmental, technical, financial, managerial and organizational).
2. Bank staff can play a highly constructive role by contributing knowledge of experience of coal sector
restructuring and social mitigation approaches in other countries, by bringing skills that may not be
readily available to government, by carefully scrutinizing the performance of state enterprises, by
helping govemment to identify and focus on high priority issues  and by helping to build
consensus/resolve conflict between different ministries.
3. The Bank can also identify significant cost savings for the Borrower (e.g., in this case PLN 200 million
in unwarranted environmental investments and PLN 120 million in mine closure costs).
4. To maintain strong support in implementing this type of program and provide the benefits identified in
I and 2 above, requires (a) strong local presence through field office staff; (b) an intensive supervision
schedule; (c) strong team work and sufficient budget to use specialists from several different disciplines
and Bank units (mining specialists, social specialists, environmental specialists, financial specialists
and privatization specialists).
5. The Bank can play an important role in making sure that all the interactions take place that are
necessary to build broad based support such that the Government can make progress in preparing and
implementing a privatization strategy.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY                                     Warsaw, 30 May 2001
Under Secretary of State
Andrzej Karbownik
DR-1 ! 083 / JS /3647/       /2001
- 12 -



Mr. Christopher L. HALL
Director of the World Bank Office
in Warsaw
ul. Emilii Plater 53   9th floor
Dear Mr. Hall,
In answer to the letter of 7 May 2001 conceming the report on the adjustment loan for Poland's coal mining
sector - SECAL, I would like to inform as follows.
Cooperation with the World Bank in the technical and economic aspect has had a positive effect on the
implementation of the govemment program of hard coal mining reform. The support of World Bank experts
and advisors for the Steering Committee and its individual members has contributed to positive results
being attained in the implementation of Polish mining reform.
Below are the effects achieved in the process of restructuring of this sector of Polish economy in the years
1998-2000, significantly financed from funds acquired within the SECAL loan granted by the World Bank:
1.    The govemment program of hard coal mining has been carried out for three years already and its
implementation has been supported for two years by the Sejm Act on the Adjustment of Hard Coal Mining,
amended by the Sejm of Poland on 15 December 2000. Taking up implementation of the govemment
program in 1998 has led to significant acceleration of the pace of restructuring of hard coal mining.
2.     Hard coal mining reform has been carried out in conditions of declining demand of the domestic
market for coal in the years 1998-2000. The total drop in hard coal sales in 1998-2000 in comparison with
1997 was 24.0 million tons. The decline in coal demand in 1998-1999 was accompanied by a lowering of
the coal sale price. In 1998 the average sale price of coal was zl.121.55/t and in comparison with 1997 had
risen by only 1.7%. Given the average annual inflation of 11.8%, this meant that in real terms it dropped by
9.1%. In 1999 the average sale price declined to zl.1 17.80/t, i.e. below the 1997 level. In 2000 there was a
rise of the average coal sale price to zl.131.91/t, i.e. by 12% in comparison with 1999. Taking into account
the indicators of average annual inflation in 1999-2000 (7.3% and 10.1 % respectively), this nonetheless
meant that the average coal sale price acquired in 2000 was 8.1 % lower in real terms than the 1998 price.
3.    In 1998-2000 there was elimination of 26.18 million tons of unprofitable production capacity in
hard coal mining, i.e. 1.63 million t/year more than stipulated in the govemment reform program.
Elimination of production capacity was achieved mainly through total liquidation of 21 mines and partial
liquidation of 9 mines.
4.    In 1998-2000 employment in hard coal mining declined by 88,300 persons, i.e. 6,400 persons more
than planned in the govemment reform program. In 1998 employment declined by 35,400 persons, in 1999
by 34,300 persons, and in 2000 by 18,600 persons. This meant that in 1998-1999 employment reductions
were greater by 11,100 and 4,700 persons respectively than the govemment assumptions, and in 2000 they
were smaller by 9,400 persons. Acquiring such a significant employment reduction in 1998-2000 was
- 13 -



possible thanks to the implementation of the Mining Social Package, which was applied by a total of
61,200 persons. In 2000 mine workers were already significantly less interested in the safety net and
activation instruments of the Mining Social Package.
5.     For the implementation of the government reform program, in 1998-2000 hard coal mining
obtained zl.4,358.8 million in support from the state budget, and partly from the Labor Fund and from the
Guaranteed Employee Benefits Fund. The acquired funds were zl.48.4 million higher than the amount of
z1.4,310.4 million established in the government program. Z1.2,953.1 million, i.e. 67.7% of all available
funds, was used for employment restructuring. Zl.1,0 10.4 million, i.e. 23.2% of all funds, was used for the
elimination of production capacity. The remaining zl.395.3 million, i.e. 9.1 % of acquired funds, was used
mainly for cash equivalents to pay for the right of mining old age and disability pensioners to free coal, for
coal allowances for mining old age and disability pensioners of totally liquidated mines, for equalizing
pensions from totally liquidated mines and for removal of mining damages caused by reactivation of old
workings.
6.     In 1998-2000 the unit cost of sold coal dropped from zl.144.16/t to zl.129.54/t, i.e. by 10.1%, with
coal sales falling by 11.6% during this time and with average annual inflation in 1999-2000 being 7.3% and
10.1%. In comparable conditions, i.e. after expressing the costs of sold coal in the price conditions of one
year, the decline of the unit cost of sold coal in 2000 in comparison with 1998 was 24.0% in real terms.
Such a significant reduction of the unit cost of sold coal is above all the result of the attained employment
reduction and the elimination of unprofitable production capacity.
7.     In 1998-2000 there was a gradual improvement of the unit result on coal sales. Whereas in 1998
the unit loss from sales amounted to z1.22.61/t and was higher by zl.3.06/t than predicted in the government
program, in 1999 it shrank to zl.13.10/t, i.e. by over 42% in comparison with 1998. In 2000 mining
attained a positive unit result of zl.2.37/t for the first time since 1994. The main cause of improvement of
the unit result from coal sales in 1998-2000 compared with 1998 was the real reduction of the unit cost of
coal sold during this time by 24%.
8.     In 2000 there were already stronger trends of improvement of the economic-financial situation of
hard coal mining that had started in late 1999. Hard coal mining attained a positive result on coal sales of
z1.238.7 million, i.e. I year earlier than projected in the Correction of the government program. The
improved coal sale results were the basic factor that lowered losses on operating activity from zl.3,314.5
million in 1998 to z1.368.2 million in 2000. During this time there was also a reduction of the net financial
loss of hard coal mining, from zl.4,276.2 million in 1998 to zl.1,614.8 million in 2000. The high rate of
improvement of the financial results of hard coal mining in 1998-2000 gives grounds to say that it is
realistic to attain the main goal of the government reform program - a positive net financial result, by 2002.
In presenting the above positive results of the reform, I also express the hope that the recently
negotiated second adjustment loan for Polish hard coal mining - SECAL 2 will be an equally significant
factor allowing for continuation of restructuring of the sector.
(b) Cofinanciers:
none
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
none
- 14 -



10. Additional Information
n.a.
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome  Impact Indicators:
t;50;0 ItdlcatorlMatrtx:090900;:          Prjce In las PSR                        ActatLaes Estimate   00 
- Number of miners having accepted lump   18000                                24000 est
sum packages;
- number of mines having been closed;  5                                      15
-number of mines having stopped        6                                      12 mines and 9 parts of mines with an
production;                                                                    annual production capacity of 18.4 million tpy
coal
- cost per ton reduced in real terms over the >0%                             13%
previous year;
- number of mines being prepared for   2                                      2
privatization;
- reduction in amount of environmental fees 2%                                8%
and fines as compared to 1998
reduction in quantity of saline content in    5%                              15%
water as compared to 1997;
- reduction in quantity of soild waste  10%                                    17%
discharge as compared to 1997.
Output Indicators:
IndicatoriMatrix                     oje       in l  PSR                    Acullas Estimate
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Total Baseline Cost                                 0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs             0.00
Total Financing Required             0.00           0.00
Not applicable for SECAL
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      CB         NoCB         Othero        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Not applicable for SECAL
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Expenditure Category     ICB         NoCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
- 17 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Not applicable for SECAL
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b  Com  onent (in US$ million equivalent)
BO        Govt.                as         Govt                R
Not applicable for SECAL
-18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
,Stage ofProjectCycle             : No. offPrsonsand Specialty                   Perfornance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists,  FMS, etcX)      Implemnentation   Development
Montear   count               SpecialtY                       Progress J0      Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 1998                    2   Mining Advisor, Energy
Specialist
July 1998                   2   Mining Advisor, Energy
Specialist
August/Sept. 1998           6   Mining Advisor, Energy
Specialist, Operations Officer, 2
financial specialists,
Environmentalist
September 1998              6   Labour Specialists (4), External
affairs (2)
October 1998                8   Mining Advisor, Energy
Specialist, Labour specialists (3),
Environmental Specialist,
Operations officer.
November 1998               3   Mining Advisor, Financial
Specialist, Environmental
Specialist
December 1998               3   Mining Advisor, Energy
Specialist, Financial Specialist
January 1999                2   Financial Specialist, Labour
Specialist.
January/Feb 1999           1]   Mining Advisor, Financial
Specialist, Mining Engineers (6)
Environmental Specialist,Labor
Specialists (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1999                  8   Mining Advisor, Energy
Specialist, Financial
Specialist, Sector Manager,
Legal, Privatization
Specialist, Chief Economist,
Country Officer
April 1999                  2   Mining Advisor, Operations
Negotiations                     officer
Supervision
July 1999                    3   Mining advisor, Mining               S               S
specialist, Operations officer
September 1999               2   Mining advisor, Operations           S               S
officer
October 1999                 4   Labour specialists (3),              S               S
Operations officer
- 20 -



October 1999                13   Mining Advisor, Operations           S              S
officer, Energy specialist, Mining
Engineers (7), Environmentalist,
Financial specialists (2)
December 1999                4   Mining Advisor, Financial            S               S
specialist, privatization advisors
(2)
February 2000                1   Mining advisor                       S               S
March 2000                   3   Mining advisor, Operations           S               S
officer, Operations assistant
April 2000                   3   Operations officer, Labour           S               S
specialists (2)
April 2000                   6   Mining advisor, Operations           S               S
officer, Operations assistant,
Financial specialist, privatization
advisor, Senior operations officer
May 2000                     3   Mining advisor, Mining               S               S
specialist, Operations officer
June 2000                    1   Mining Advisor                       S               S
August 2000                  2   Mining advisor, Operations           S               S
officer
ICR
May 2001                    3    ICR Primary Author,                  S               S
Operations officer,
Operations assistant
Note: From September 2000 to June 2001 missions continued for the preparation, appraisal and negotiation
of Coal SECAL 2.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                10.4                        48.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    135.9                       534.0
Supervision                              133.2                       611.9
ICR                                        6.7                        32.7
Total                                    286.2                       1227.3
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OI Sector Policies                       O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
C Physical                               OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
i Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Private sector development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
O Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
0 Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU   OHU
E Overall                                             OHS OS  O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
0 Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
0 Government implementation performance               O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
0 Implementation agencyperformance                    O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
0 Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Government of Poland Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program - approved by the Council of Ministers
June 30, 1998.
Enabling Law on Adjusting the Hard Coal Mining Sector to Functioning Under Conditions of Market
Economy and on Specific Privileges and Tasks of Mining Communes, December 26, 1998 and an
amendment to the law dated December 15, 2000.
Revision to Government Hard Coal Reform Program, December 21, 1999
Mining Company Four Year Business Plans 1999 - 2002
Mining Company Annual Technical and Operational Plans 1999, 2000, 2001
Monthly Mining Industry Scorecards ( late 1999 - date)
Staff Mission Back to Office Reports, consultants' reports and other Loan Processing Documents (1998 -
2001)
- 24 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 8 Survey of Beneficiaries
Introduction
A survey of beneficiaries was conducted as part of the intensive learning component of the ICR. The survey
was designed by Christopher Sheldon (the primary author of the ICR) and was conducted by Pawel
Kaminski and Maciej Koziara. Assistance in interpretation was provided by Jan Rutkowski and Dorota
Holzer-Zelazewska, and administrative support was provided by Malgorzata Michnowska. The World
Bank would like to thank all of those who responded to the survey for their valuable contribution.
The survey was small in size and broad in scope, covering all aspects of the Project. It is primarily a survey
of perceptions by various beneficiaries of the Project and is not designed to be a full statistical analysis of
all aspects of the Project. The survey took two forms - an anonymous general questionnaire and individual
interview. Separate social surveys have been conducted under the Project which have also been used in
preparing the ICR.
The general findings of the survey are presented below along with ten complete individual interviews from
a variety of beneficiaries, including housewives of miners, which provide some interesting perspectives of
the Project. The response to the survey exceed expectations with 149 responses being received. Most
responses were from miners (60% of respondents) however it should also be recognized there were 243,000
employees in the hard coal sector at the start of the Government reform Program and that miners and their
families are perhaps the most directly impacted by the Program. All coal holding companies responded to
the survey as did all of the Government ministries in the Inter-Ministerial Coal Steering Committee. One of
the more surprising responses was from Gminas who in most cases did not consider themselves
beneficiaries of the Project. Responses from other beneficiaries such as suppliers and investors provide
useful information but are not of a sufficient sample size for any statistical analysis.
The questionnaire was designed around the program objectives and expected benefits as referred to in the
Memorandum of the President dated May 18, 1999. Beneficiaries were classified as counterparts,
implementers, recipients and other, as shown in the matrix at the end of this annex.
The questions seek to test whether the expected benefits of the Program were achieved in the view of each
beneficiary group. Where benefits can be measured in other ways, such as environmental improvements,
the survey is testing each stakeholder groups perception of these benefits. The individual interview seeks to
record the direct experiences, positive and negative, of the Program.
Program Objectives
Restore profitability of the Hard Coal Sector in a socially and environmentally acceptable manner.
Specifically through:-
Employment restructuring
Capacity Restructuring
Financial Restructuring
Improves Corporate Governance
Environmental Improvement
Introducing Privatization
- 25 -



Progarn Benefits
The Program should provide substantial benefits to the economy and to various social groups. In particular,
as a result of Program implementation:-
Redundant Miners - income support and employment/business assistance
*      Remaining Miners - a more stable industry and safer mining conditions
*      Regional Economy - improved labor mobility, redeployment of labor
*     Region - reduced pollution and clean up of abandoned sites and facilities
*      Energy Sector - stable coal supplies at internationally competitive prices and improved coal
quality.
*      Overall increase in competitiveness of Polish economy.
A sample of the general questionnaire and individual interview questionnaire, and a matrix of beneficiaries
are shown at the end of this annex.
Results of the General Questionnaire
A total of 149 responses were received. The responses were grouped into 5 categories as shown in the table
below.
Table 1 - Responses
Type of Respondent     Number of Responses  Percent %
Government                       27                18
Miners and their families        91                61
Mining Companies                  15                10
Supplier and Customers            10                7
Civil Society                     6                 4
Total                            149              100
Employment Restructuring
This is one of the most sensitive areas of the Program. The questionnaire results indicate that a fairly
balanced view of the level of income support for miners leaving the sector. Not surprisingly most miners
tend to disagree that the level of support was sufficient, while Government and Mining Companies tend to
agree. However the fact that many miners did agree tends to indicate the package was appropriately
designed to be attractive to the miners. In addition the miners social surveys show that most miners who
took an MSP are satisfied with their decision. However repeat surveys are showing a decline in satisfaction
as miners are finding new employment more difficult to find than expected. The results indicate miners are
less satisfied with assistance in seeking new employment, retraining and starting new businesses.
- 26 -



Q I (a) In your opinion did the employment restructuring component of the Program provide sufficient
income support for miners leaving the sector?
Type of      Disagree Agree  Total
Respondent
Government           6       16    22
Miners               54       35     89
Mining Companies      3       8      11
Total                63      59    122
Q I (b) In your opinion did the employment restructuring component of the Program provide sufficient
assistance to miners in seeking new employment, re-training, start new business?
Type of      Disagree Agree  Total
Respondent
Government           12       9     21
Miners               49       34    83
Mining Companies      5       6      11
Total                66      49    115
One of the expected benefits of the restructuring was to provide a more stable sector for those who
remained. Most miners who remained in the sector did not perceive the sector to be more stable or
themselves to have a more stable income. This is despite a major reduction in financial losses during the
Program. The miners view, however, may reflect concerns about the need for more employment and
capacity reduction after the present Program is completed in 2002.
Capacity Restructuring
As part of mine closures old abandoned sites were cleaned up and many non mining social assets such as
day care centers and health facilities were turned over to local Government. Both of these aspects were
perceived as a success by beneficiaries as shown in the graphs below.
- 27 -



Q2 (d) In your opinion did the capacity restructuring under the Program improve the environment through
cleaning up old or abandoned sites and industrial facilities?
C,,
(D                          71
0
Uz)       4 1             ; 0  *j!!  '
(0
U,
z       Disagree           Agree
Q2 (e) In your opinion did the capacity restructuring under the Program provide additional facilities to
local Governnent?
C:
Ui
V                       fAt000 100
0
o         20
z       Disagree           Agree
Financial Performance
This has been one of the more challenging areas of the Project.
Most mining companies and Government agree that the financial situation of the companies has improved
as has the long term viability of the sector. The actual financial results of the mining companies have
improved dramatically and tax and ZUS payments are increasing. However all five suppliers surveyed
disagreed that the attractiveness of the sector had improved for suppliers. Perhaps this is due to a decline in
purchases due to decrease in production.
- 28 -



Environment
Environment was one of the most successful components of the Project. There was overwhelming
agreement on the contribution of the Project to improving the environment. Direct impacts on the
environment such as waste material and saline water discharges are measured separately. However the
results of the questionnaire show the perception by a variety of beneficiaries, most of whom live in the
mining region, of the improvement to the environment.
Q4 (a) In your opinion did the environmental aspect of the Program reduce pollution?
C,,
cn
V                             79
35
0
E
z       Disagree            Agree
Q4 (b) In your opinion did the environmental aspect of the Program draw attention to the major
environmental issues of the Sector?
.)
CD                           89
-o
o02
0~
C,,
a)
S.-
0      ~~20
E
z       Disagree            Agree
Privatization
The results of the questionnaire indicate that the Project has raised awareness of the potential of the Sector
for privatization, however the understanding of the benefits of privatization did not improve for most
groups.
- 29 -



Q 5 (a) In your opinion did the privatization aspect of the Program raise awareness of the potential of the
Sector for privatization?
V                             82
0
CL                       !:0i    XSS0 A
0.
CD,
a)~~3
4 - 
Z       Disagree            Agree
Q 5 (b) In your opinion did the privatization aspect of the Program improve understanding of the benefits
of privatization of the Sector?
at         72
c
a,
CL
ca_                           37
7       Disagree            Agree
While the majority of respondents appear not to be persuaded privatization will bring benefits to the sector,
two thirds of mining companies responding considered privatization would benefit the sector.
Question 5 (c) asked if the privatization aspect of the Programn helped prepare the Sector for privatization.
Almnost all Government respondents agreed (13 out of 14 responses). For the remainder of respondents
about half agreed and half disagreed.
The Project was helpful in drawing attention to the key issues for privatization as shown by the following
responses of the mining companies and Government. Overall about three quarters of respondents agreed
with Q 5 (d). It is interesting to note that over three quarters of Governunent and all of the mining
companies responding agreed.
- 30 -



Q5 (d) In your opinion did the privatization aspect of the Program draw attention to the key issues required
for privatization of the Sector?
Type of      Disagree Agree  Total
Respondent                     _
Government           3       13      16
Mining Companies     0       10    10
Total                3       23    26
Management Strengthening and Corporate Governance
Most mining companies, Government and miners who responded to the questionnaire perceived that
management performance had improved.
Government response was that coordination between Government ministries involved in had improved.
Likewise mining companies and Gminas considered coordination between them to have improved.
Performance of the World Bank
Overall the World Bank was considered by respondents to have made a moderate to major contribution to
the success of the Program. Particularly in employment and capacity restructuring.
Q 7 (h) In your opinion what was the contribution of the World Bank to overall Program implementation?
U,
XJ                          47
0
a)          ~~~~23      ll24
4-
0
2
-D
E 
z     None    Minor   Moderate   Major
-31 -



The Individual Interview
The individual interview records the direct experiences of beneficiaries in their own words. Twenty five
responses were received and ten responses have been included in the ICR, unedited, to represent a variety
of views and experiences. The responses vary from Government Ministries, mining companies and
housewives impacted by the Program and give a unique and personal view to the successes and challenges
of the restructuring Program, and suggestions for improvement.
Results of the Interview
Respondent Information
Namne:       Janusz Sadowski
Institution:    Ministry of Economy (22) 693 51 92
Title/position: Advisor to the Minister in the Departrnent for Industry Restructuring
Date:        27 April, 2001.
Ouestions
1.    What is your role in the Project?
(a)    Co-ordination of MoE activities regarding preparation of SECAL 1;
(b)    Participation in discussions with the World Bank representatives during consecutive Bank missions
preparing the Project;
(c)    Participation in preparation of the document package for negotiations;
(d)    Participation in negotiations of the SECAL 1 Loan Agreement.
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of
your interest?
Project has lead to a significant progress on the way to achieve primary objective of the hard coal mining
sector restructuring i.e. assisting entities operating within this sector to achieve profitability. This main
objective is fulfilled by implementation of implementation and achievement of individual goals including:
appropriate level of employment reduction and liquidation of surplus production capacity.
As at the end of 2000 hard coal mining employment level was 155,032 persons i.e. during the period of
three years of programme implementation employment was reduced by the total of 88,272 persons i.e.
36.3%.
During the period 1998 - 2000 the total of 61.2 thousand workers used the MSP instruments i.e. more, by
8.2 thousand, than assumed under the Government programme.
During 1998 -- 2000 the total reduction of production capacity was 26.18 million tonnes/year which
favourably compares to Government programme assumptions of 24.55 million tonnes/year. Production was
discontinued in 12 fully liquidated mines and 9 partially liquidated mines. capacity reduction in fully
liquidated mines reached the level of 12.4 million t/y and in partially liquidated mines - 6.0 million t/y.
Further capacity reduction was achieved by liquidation of areas, fields and levels (by 3.86 million t/y) and
shortening of the length of production faces in operating mines (by 3.92 million t/y).
- 32 -



Since August, 1999 the decline in coal prices was stopped and the coal prices stabilised on domestic market
and continuous trend of price increase in exports commenced in the year 2000.
In 2000 hard coal mining sector generated positive unit results on sales of 2.37 PLN/t, while the
programme assumed a negative 2.57 PLN/t.
3.    What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
Significant reduction of revenue in the 1st half of 1999 in the mining sector due to a drop in domestic coal
sales accompanied by reduction in coal prices created a threat to positive implementation of individual
programme goals.
The revenue decline occurred due to accumulation of a series of negative factors influencing developments
on the hard coal market. These factors were unforeseeable at the programme designing stage.
Domestic coal sales projection, as provided in the Government programme, for 1999 and subsequent years
assumed increase in hard coal consumption by system power plants as well as undertaking programmes
designed to protect domestic market against oversized imports.
In view of the sales results of 1998 and the 1 st half of 1999 discrepancies between projected results and
actual situation were discovered. Hence, it was necessary to introduce adjustments to the Government
programme in order to make assumptions of the programme more realistic and introduce appropriate
changes to net off reduced revenue by additional significant cost reductions by way of additional reduction
of both employment and production capacity.
4.    What changes would you recommend if the Project were to be implemented again?
Should the next programme be implemented, it would be necessary to consider a greater focus on issues
regarding financial restructuring of the sector, including its debt reduction and forgiveness.
******~* ** ******* * * **** *****
Respondent Information
Name:         Wodzimierz Komaszewski
Institution:    Katowicki Holding Weglowy S.A. tel.: 032 7573147
Title/position: Director, Human Resource Management, Investments and Development Strategy
Date:        25 April, 2001.
Questions
1.    What is your role in the Project?
Development of main assumptions for Katowicki Holding Weglowy S.A. restructuring based on alternative
projections of financial results (selection of mines for liquidation, defining needs and capabilities of
employment reduction, defining production cost reduction opportunities, implementation oversight).
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of
- 33 -



your interest?
Main success of the Project is adjustment of production capacity levels to opportunities to achieve
profitable coal sales by way of liquidation of unprofitable mines and significant employment reduction.
Furthermore, the fact that significant employment reduction and thereby reduction of costs was achieved
without social conflicts should be considered a significant success.
The above was achieved, primarily, by applying protection instruments under the MSP, primarily miners'
leaves and one-time unconditional severances. These instruments were popular and continue to enjoy broad
interest amongst miners willing to leave the sector.
3.    What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
The main failure of the Project was the fact that the Project structure did not take account of issues relating
to new job creation programmes designed for redundant miners.
In addition, the Project also failed in introduction of so called social allowance to MSP instruments.
Practically, this instrument failed to match requirements of the miners; hence, its utilisation remained
marginal.
Lack of protection instruments designed to help surface workers (besides a portion of this work force
employed in coal processing plants) constituting ca. 15% of the total coal mining sector employment, was
additional Project failure.
4.     What changes would you recommend if the Project were to be implemented again?
Should any changes be made to the Project design it would be wise to introduce protection instruments
addressing problems of surface workers: These could include a modified version of social allowance - an
item that was not popular among underground workers.
It seems that this gap may be fulfilled with a new protection instrument - the incentive package. This
instrument, co-funded by EC PHARE provides surface workers with opportunity to re-train and acquire
new skills and qualifications free of charge and constitutes an incentive to change work place. Undoubtedly
this initiative will have a positive impact upon progress in surface labour force restructuring.
*******~******* ** * *********
Respondent information
Name:         Teresa Recho
Institution:    ZG BYTOM I/ tel. 289 00 11
Title/position: Payroll inspector
Date:         17 April, 2001.
Ouestions
1.    What is your role in the Project?
My role included gathering information, calculation and preparation of account settlements regarding
benefits provided under the MSP.
- 34 -



2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of
your interest?
The main success of the Project was providing miners leaving the sector with relatively long adaptation
period to be used for re-training and re-deployment. The Project also facilitated lifting the burden of costs
incurred during the period from handing in the notice until taking up a new job from mining plants.
3.    What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
The shortcoming of the Project can be described as an insufficient awareness by the miners of the
attractiveness of the social allowances offered. Furthermore, miners faced difficulties in re-training and
re-deployment and in finding new jobs. In addition, the Project required compliance with complicated
procedures goveming application submissions and account settlements with respect to amounts received for
ZUS contribution refund; which resulted in a number of complaints from employers employing ex-miners.
4.    What changes would you recommend if the Project were to be implemented again?
Should the Project be implemented again I would suggest streamlining of account settlement procedures
regarding benefits and incorporating certain flexibility regarding the use of resources received for various
forms of assistance. I would also suggest to ensure better level of sector's stabilization for miners
remaining in the sector and to extend the Project implementation period.
Respondent information
Name:         Artur Wojtk6w
Institution:    KWK BORYNIA
Title/position: Deputy Director for Labour
Date:         19 April, 2001.
1.    What is your role in the Project?
Implementation, together with subordinate staff, of the Project objectives including employment and asset
restructuring.
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of
your interest?
*     Employment restructuring - reduction of current employment level under the MSP Programme,
redundancies without group lay-offs and social unrest, broad opportunities for re-deployment and
retraining.
*     Asset restructuring - disposal of non-operational assets, spinning off private companies on the
basis of former mine assets.
3.    What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
- 35 -



experienced directly?
*      Lack of instruments encouraging surface employees to leave the mine;
Problems with finding new jobs for redundant workers (high unemployment rate).
4.    What changes would you recommend if the Project were to be implemented again?
*      Creation financially attractive instruments for surface workers, encouraging them to leave the
sector;
*      Allocation of greater financial resources to the Project;
*      Greater focus on new job creation schemes.
Respondent information
Name:        Tomasz Gierwatowski
Institution:    Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy
Position:     Social Monitoring in Silesia, Co-ordinator
Date:         10 April, 2001.
Ouestions
1.    What is your role in the Project?
Co-ordination of the implementation of social monitoring in Silesia.
Preparation of quarterly reports regarding labour market/unemployment in the region under restructuring,
social assistance and disposal of social assets by mining companies.
Managing research contracts:
(a)    survey of the Silesian labour market - by Rudzka Agencja Rozwoju "INWESTOR"
(b)   tracking survey gathering information on situation of miners who had used Miners' Social Package
- by Main Institute of Mining.
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of
your interest?
(a)    Setting up and implementation of the system of monitoring of the hard coal sector restructuring
process, involving:
-      general monitoring activity conducted by the State Coal Sector Restructuring Agency
-      social monitoring i.e. unemployment level, assistance programmes addressed to ex coal
sector employees, tracking survey of employees that had used the Miners' Social Package and monitoring
of labour market trends etc.
(b)    Significant number of persons leaving the mining sector in a relatively short time (2.5 year);
(c)    Relatively low level of unemployment amongst ex-miners (only ca. 3.4 per cent. of the total
unemployment level in Silesia).
- 36 -



3.    What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
(a)   small number ofjobs in areas subject to hard coal mining restructuring programme;
(b)   insufficient incentives for ex-coal sector workers to seek new jobs outside of the sector
(c)    poor cooperation between the framework of labour offices and GAP Offices for Occupational
Consultancy in the areas under restructuring;
(d)   insufficient involvement of mining gminas in implementation of the restructuring programme,
including insufficient involvement in job creation activities;
(e)    high and growing indebtedness of the sector, primarily to social security institution (ZUS) and
public finance sector (tax office).
4.    What changes would you recommend if the Project was to be implemented again?
(a)   linking one time severances and other GSP instruments with labour redeployment and retraining
activities;
(b)   limiting social package to increase funding creation of subsidised jobs;
(c)    supporting economic development of areas under restructuring by establishment of technology
parks, economic zones where ex-workers from coal and related industries would find jobs;
(d)    supporting job creation process, primarily by ensuring active involvement of mining gminas;
(e)    acceleration of the privatisation process.
Main Mining Institute, Katowice
QUESTIONNAIRE
The hard coal mining reform programme has been implemented since 1998. There are various
opinions on the programme, usually expressed by people directly involved in the sector (mine
workers, workers of coal companies etc.), miners leaving mines or various non-mining communities
and circles. Rarely opinions can be heard of persons that, due to everyday duties and concerns have
their own opinions on effects of the reform to date. Hence, we would like to solicit opinions from
miners' wives, who are not employed or have no professional occupation but instead they take care of
their households.
Please provide exhaustive answers to questions below
1.    How many members are in your household?
4
2.    What does your daily work involve?
I am housewife taking care of the family and children. I have never been employed or self-employed.
Children go to school and need to be brought up and taken care of.
3.    You have certainly talked with your husband and friends about recent developments in the
- 37 -



coal mining sector. What, in your opinion can be considered a success of the reform programme
(looking from your family perspective)?
Husband has taken a miner's leave. Has worked more than 22 years under the ground suffered from ill
health during the last two years, so it was doubtful that he would continue to work until retirement.
Opportunity to take up miner's leave stabilised and secured situation of the entire family.
4.    What are the failures of the coal mining reform, primarily those that affected yourself (your
close relations) directly?
The fact that the period of reforn implementation ended with high unemployment and lack of jobs for
wives of the miners who left mines.
Family incomes dropped by 25%.
5.    If you were to decide, what changes would you introduce to the coal mining sector reform?
Opportunities to freely find new employment outside mines for people at miners' leaves.
6.    Please provide fotlowing information about yourself, for statistical purposes only:
4.1.   Age (number of years)                43
4.2.   Education status                     vocational
4.3.   Place of residence (name of town)   Ruda Slaska
Thankyou for participation
Main Mining Institute, Katowice
QUESTIONNAIRE
The hard coal mining reform programme has been implemented since 1998. There are various
opinions on the programme, usually expressed by people directly involved in the sector (mine
workers, workers of coal companies etc.), miners leaving mines or various non-mining communities
and circles. Rarely opinions can be heard of persons that, due to everyday duties and concerns have
their own opinions on effects of the reform to date. Hence, we would like to solicit opinions from
miners' wives, who are not employed or have no professional occupation but instead they take care of
their households.
Please provide exhaustive answers to questions below
1.    How many members are in your household?
5
- 38 -



2.    What does your daily work involve?
I do not work professionally although I would very much like to. Due to lack of job offers on the labour
market, I have to, in spite of the fact that I have completed secondary education, be a non-working
housewife taking care of the household and bringing up children.
3.     You have certainly talked with your husband and friends about recent developments in the
coal mining sector. What, in your opinion can be considered a success of the reform programme
(looking from your family perspective)?
I am not a specialist in this area but I understand that old and unprofitable mines should be closed down.
The only success of the reform, I believe, is the fact that workers can be continuously employed in mines
under liquidation.
4.    What are the shortcomings of the coal mining reform, primarily those that affected yourself
(your close relations) directly?
My family was not affected by the reform because my husband is still working but his wages are
continuously lower relative to inflation. I know families of miners who took up one time severances and no
they have no means to provide for their living.
5.    If you were to decide, what changes would you introduce to the coal mining sector reform?
If I were to decide I would not introduce any privileges like miners leaves or unconditional severances. It
would be enough to stop recruiting new workers to the mining sector and employment level would be
reduced by retirement and in time natural attrition will decrease the employment level. It would take more
time but would be less painful. By introducing the reform we show that we want to be better than western
or other highly developed countries.
6.    Please provide following information about yourself, for statistical purposes only:
4.1.   Age (number of years)                 39
4.2.   Education status                     secondary
4.3.   Place of residence (name of town)    Swietochlowice
Respondent information
Name:         Adam Fudali
Institution:    RYBNIK Municipality tel.: 4222310
Position:    Mayor
Date:         25 April, 2001.
Ouestions
1.    What is your role in the Project?
- 39 -



Attempts to minimize negative effects of the restructuring programme for the municipality.
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of your
interest?
*      Recovery of significant amounts of overdue payments due from mining company to the
municipality with respect to property tax.
*      Establishment, on the basis of mine assets, jointly with Rybnicka Sp6lka Weglowa S.A. of the
Business Zone ltd.
3.     What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
Increase of unemployment rate in the municipality, connected with sectoral restructuring.
Mining auxiliary entities have been forgotten: the situation of the sector has a negative impact upon their
financial standing and generates effects in form of insolvency's (due to reduction of orders from the sector
and due to failure, by the sector, to pay its dues, etc.).
Difficulties in selling surplus coal.
4.     What changes would you recommend if the Project were to be implemented again?
*     Reclamation of the land degraded by mining; improvement of technical condition of former mine
buildings, currently transferred to gminas;
*     Increase of allocations to job creation activities by way of investments in capital projects (e.g. road
construction), state budget funding or financial engineering (state budget, aid resources, gmina own
budgets);
*     remedy of the sector's financial situation, no tolerance to coal sector indebtedness to the state
budget, gmina budgets as well as suppliers and contractors.
Resuondent information
Name:         Grazyna Zduniczyk-Studnicka
Institution:    Office of the Speaker of the Voivodship (032) 207838, 2552518
Position:    Ph.D.
Date:        24 April, 2001.
Ouestions
1.    What is your role in the Project?
Analysis of the impact of the Hard Coal Sector Reform upon economy in the region.
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of your
interest?
-40 -



Creation of basis for a better use of production and non-production related assets of mines and setting up
new organisational structures using such assets as base. Attempts to rationalize business processes within
the sector, greater care for environment, preventing outbreaks of social unrest in the voivodship.
3.     What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
Insufficient resolution of the problems of the sector's indebtedness, continuous lack of market forces in coal
mining sector operations, increasing socio-economic problems in the region (growing unemployment also
among young people due to dramatic drop in the number of available jobs), unresolved problem of so called
mining gminas (loss of revenue and problems of companies).
4.     What changes would you recommend if the Project was to be implemented again?
The main thrust should involve redirection of resources financing social umbrellas to actual creation of new
jobs within the region.
** ** *** * ***** ** ****
Respondent information
Name:         Krzysztof Rak
Institution:    Bank Slaski S.A. tel. 32 357 80 57
Position:     Head of section, Corporate Services, Corporate Banking Department
Questions
1.     What is your role in the Project?
Development and oversight of the policy regarding co-operation of the Bank with hard coal sector
enterprises.
2.    In your view what are the main successes of the Project, particularly in the area of your
interest?
Progress in restoration of hard coal mining financing liquidity.
3.     What were the main shortcomings of the Project, particularly those that you have
experienced directly?
The hard coal mining sector generated "good" financial results due, primarily, to price increase and not
cost reduction.
Netting off sales drop by price increase can generate positive outcome only in a short-term perspective.
Maintaining the above trend will threaten competitive advantage of hard coal (relative to other energy
carriers) and domestic industry including, primarily, the chief coal sector customer i.e. power sector.
Hence, further significant cost reduction should by no means be postponed. Payroll costs are dominating in
the coal production cost structure. The effect of cost reduction by way of employment restructuring has
- 41 -



already been largely utilised.
Employment level has been reduced beyond indicators planned under the reform, however, apparently
interest and approval among the miners in voluntary redeployment has significantly declined. The hard coal
mining reform more and more often is perceived (and criticised) from the standpoint of increasing
unemployment within the region. The problem results from a lack of support of the reform by appropriately
fast increase in the number of alternative jobs in businesses operating outside of the mining sector.
Opportunities of employment in and around the mining sector have exhausted. Financial standing of
businesses established on the basis of former mine assets leaves a lot to be desired.
4.    What changes would you recommend if the Project were to be implemented again?
Allocation of more financial resources to job creation activities outside of the hard coal mining sector.
*************** ** *******
Ouestionnaire
Poland Hard Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
Background
The Government of Poland introduced the Hard Coal Sector Reform Program ("the Program") in
1998 to restore profitability to the hard coal mining sector in a socially and environmentally
sustainable manner. Specifically, the Program focused on four key elements: (i) restructuring and
rationalization of the sector's labor force; (ii) reducing production capacity; (iii) financial
restructuring; and (iv) improving management and corporate governance. It also puts strong
emphasis on improving environmental protection, increasing competition, and introducing
privatization, consistent with requirements as defined by the European Union. The Program will
run from 1998 to 2002.
The World Bank supported the Government Program by providing technical assistance and a
Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL 1) of US$300 million to finance approximately half of the
employment restructuring and physical mine closure costs of the Program in the years 1999 and
2000. The SECAL 1 project closed in September 2000 and a second loan (SECAL 2) is being
prepared to continue support for the Program.
Objective of the Questionnaire
This questionnaire is part of the World Bank review of the impact of SECAL 1. The objective of
the questionnaire is to assess the impact of the Government's Hard Coal Sector Reform Program
and the success of SECAL 1 in supporting the Program.
The questions are designed around the core components of the Program and the expected
benefits.
- 42 -



Responses to the questionnaire will be treated as confidential. A report summarizing the responses
will be prepared and presented at an evaluation workshop scheduled for May 2001.
The World Bank would like to thank the respondents for their cooperation. If you have any
questions please contact Mr. Maciej Koziara of the World Bank on in Warsaw on 022 520 8000.
Information on the Respondent
Type of Organization or Individual. (Please select one)
Member of Inter-ministerial Coal        Government Agency
Steering Committee
Mining Company                          Tax Authority (incl. ZUS)
Miner leaving the Hard Coal Sector      Miner remaining in Hard Coal Sector
Gmina                                   Powiat
Supplier to the Hard Coal Sector        Customer
Financial Sector (Banks)                Potential Investor
Non Government Organization (NGO)        Trade Union
Housewife/Homemaker                     Other (Please describe)
Ouestion 1 - Employment Restructuring
In your opinion did the employment restructuring components of the Program:
No    Strongly  Disagree   Agree  Strongly
Response  Disagre                  Agree
e
a.    Provide sufficient income support
for miners leaving the sector
b.    Provide sufficient assistance for
miners in seeking new employment,
re-training, or starting a new business
c.    Provide a more stable industry for
the miners who remained in the Sector
d.    Provide a more secure income for
the miners who remained in the Sector
e.    Provide sufficient information on
the options for workers wanting to leave
the Sector
f.    Improve labor mobility and provide
redeployment of labor in the regional
economy                               _
- 43 -



g.    Achieve these objectives in a
socially acceptable manner.
Question 2 - Capacitv Restructuring and Physical Mine Closure
In your opinion did the capacity restructuring under the Program:
No    Strongly  Disagree   Agree   Strongly
Response  Disagre                    Agree
.______________ _  e
a.    Provide a more stable supply of
coal
b.    Improve coal quality
c.    Provide safer working conditions
for the workers
d.    Improve the environment through
cleaning up old or abandoned sites and
industrial facilities
e.    Provide additional facilities to local
Government
f.    Achieve these objectives in a
socially acceptable manner.                       _
g.    Achieve these objectives in an
environmentally acceptable manner.
Question 3- Financial Restructurin2 and Improved Financial Performance
In your opinion did the financial restructuring component of the Program:
No    Strongly  Disagree   Agree   Strongly
Response  Disagre                    Agree
a.    Improve the financial position of
the mining companies
b.    Improve the long term viability of
the Sector
c.    Enhance the attractiveness of the
Sector for suppliers
d.    Create new economic growth
through the divestment of non core
business activities into new businesses
- 44 -



Ouestion 4- Environmental Improvement
In your opinion did the environmental aspect of the Program:
No    Strongly  Disagree   Agree   Strongly
Response  Disagre                  Agree
e
a.    Reduce pollution
b.    Draw attention to the major
environmental issues of the Sector
c.    Provide a plan of action to address
the environmental issues of the Sector
d.    Get mining companies to be more
concerned about the environment
Ouestion 5- Privatization
In your opinion did the privatization aspect of the Program:
No    Strongly  Disagree   Agree   Strongly
Response  Disagre                  Agree
e
a.    Raise awareness of the potential of
the Sector for privatization
b.    Improve understanding of the
benefits of privatization of the Sector
c.    Help prepare the Sector for
privatization
d.    Draw attention to the key issues
required for privatization of the Sector
e.    Enhance the attractiveness of the
Sector for private investment
Ouestion 6 - Corporate Governance and Monitorin2
In your opinion did the corporate governance and monitoring component of the Program:
No    Strongly  Disagree   Agree   Strongly
Response  Disagre                  Agree
a.    Improve the performance of mining
company management
- 45 -



b.    Provide sufficient information on
the performance of the Program
c.   Improve coordination between
Government Ministries involved in the
Program
d.   Improve coordination between the
mining companies and the Gminas
e.   Improve coordination between
national, regional (Powiats) and local
(Gminas) Government
Ouestion 7 - Performance of the World Bank Proiect
In your opinion what was the contribution of the World Bank SECAL 1 and technical assistance
in supporting the Govermment Programs goals of:
No     None   Minor  Moderate  Major
Response
a.    Employment Restructuring
b.    Capacity Restructuring and Physical
Mine Closure
c.    Financial Restructuring and
Improved Financial Performance
d.    Environmental Performance
e.    Privatization
f.    Corporate Governance and
Monitoring
g.   Improving the overall contribution
of the Sector to the economy of Poland   |_ l
h.    Contribution of the World Bank to |
overall Program_Implementation      l       l         l       l_ l_l
- 46 -



Matrix of Beneficiaries by Proiect Component
Types of      Counterpart      Implementing          Recipient              Other
Beneficiaries by                    Agency
Project Component
Employment        .  IMCSC      . Mining           .  Miners who took    . Other Employers
Companies          packages (10)        (5)
. GAP (Labor       .  Miners who        . Small Business (5)
Agency - 1 plus 3    remained (10)      . Chambers of
mine site offices)    .  Mining Companies  Commerce (2)
. Trade Unions (1)
. Housewives (5)
Capacity         .  IMCSC      . Mining            .   Miners (safety)    .  Energy Sector
Restructuring and              Companies           .   Gminas (6)       (3)
Physical Mine                                      .   Mining Companies .  Other
Closure                                                                 Customers (3)
Financial        .  IMCSC      . Mining            .   Mining Companies .  Financial Sector
Restructuring                  Companies          .   Gminas            (e.g. Banks - 2)
. Tax Authorities   .   Environmental    .  Potential
(Local and National - Funds             Investors (2)
6)                 .   Miners           .  Suppliers (5)
Environment      .  IMCSC      . Mining            .   Gminas           .  NGO's (3)
Improvement                    Companies           .   Powiats (1)
. MoEn
Introduction of    .   IMCSC   . MoE               .   Mining Companies .  Foreign Mining
Privatization                  . MoST              .   Polish Investors (3) Companies (2)
.  Energy Sector
Corporate         .  IMCSC      . MoE              .  Mining Companies
Govemance and                   . PARG (1)         .  Miners taking
Monitoring                                         packages
.  Labor Agencies
. Gminas and
Powiats
IMCSC includes the following ministries who would be interviewed separately - the Ministries of
Economy, State Treasury, Finance, Environment and Labor and Social Policy.
( ) Number of targeted surveys. Total is approximately 90. Actual received was 149.
- 47 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
A workshop with stakeholders was held in the Warsaw office of the World Bank on May 24, 2001. The
workshop was well attended by senior representatives of a wide range of stakeholders including
Government, mining companies, trade unions, labor agencies, and NGO's. The workshop was led by Pawel
Kaminski (Task Manager Warsaw, Hard Coal SECAL). A full list of attendees is shown below.
One of the greatest benefits of the workshop was that it brought together many different stakeholders for
the first time to share their views and experiences. The World Bank acted as a convener and facilitator of a
lively and informative exchange between stakeholders. The highlights of the discussion are recorded below.
Given the value added by the workshop the Bank Project team intends to organize similar events for
SECAL 2 and SECAL 3.
Hiehli2hts of the Workshop
"A change in attitude"
Stachowicz Stanislaw, President of KWK "Bogdanka " noted as a success the change in mentality of the
trade unions who are longer calling for subsidies, realizing this is no longer a way out.
Henryk Nakonieczny of Trade Union, NSZZ "SOLIDARNOSC" responded there is also a change in
management mentality who previously focused on production and not on sales.
Artur Rudy of The Upper Silesian Regional Development Agency Co. noted as a success the keenness of
the youth in the region to learn and improve their qualifications, which was caused by better awareness
and understanding of changing needs.
Employment Restructuring
Most stakeholders agreed that the Miners Social Package (MSP) has been very successful in attracting
workers to leave the sector. Several noted one of the major successes of the Program was that the
restructuring occurred without any major social disruption. Over 85,000 workers left the sector from 1998
to 2000.
However the general economic conditions in the region have changed since the Program started and general
unemployrnent in Silesia has increased rapidly. Ms Danuta Kmiecik of the Katowice Voivodship
Employment Office noted that the coal reform also overlaps with the steel sector reform. Job creation is not
keeping up with job losses in the region.
Job Creation
One of the major challenges to the Program is how to assist miners leaving the sector to remain
economically active. A number of initiatives have been established including retraining and support for
starting new businesses. However most stakeholders felt more needed to be done for job creation.
Regional Impact and the Role of Local and Regional Government and Communities
One of the concerns expressed was that job creation seems to be focused on individuals or small and
medium enterprises and not at a regional level. Regional planning was seen as important for job creation.
Several stakeholders expressed concern at the regional impact of the Program and criticized the
Government for not having a better understanding of this regional impact nor a regional focus.
Communities were urged to take a more active role in the Program.
- 48 -



The Impact on Women
The project was also criticized for not better considering the impact of the restructuring on women. Women
may be required to enter the workforce as a result of the reform and no information as presented on how
women were affected. It was recommended that the impact on women be surveyed and that miners social
packages be available for women. Several stakeholders agreed with the need for packages that are available
to women and the Government advised that a package to surface workers is being introduced that would
also be available to women. Previously the packages were targeted to underground workers who were men.
Financial Restructuring
The financial difficulties of 1999 made it very difficult for the companies to meet the financial restructuring
provisions of the reform Program. The situation improved in 2000 and 2001 and most stakeholders
acknowledge the marked improvement in the financial performance of the mining companies. Jozef Kisiel
of the Katowice Tax Authority noted that personal income tax is (PIT) is now paid at 100% and payments
of VAT have greatly improved.
The Environment
Pressure on the environment has eased under the Programn as pollution and discharges from the mines have
been reduced. Some of this impact is due to the decrease in production however many stakeholders advised
there is a general perception that the environment is improving. Subsidence remains an environmental
concern.
"A cleaner environment"
In preparation for the ICR Workshop, Barbara Baran from the Association of Women After Forties, met
women and other residents in their homes to asked about the benefits of the Program. Most people
commented that there is a much cleaner environment.
Privatization
The Government advised that a privatization program has been drafted and is being discussed with social
partners. Slawomir Lukaslewicz of the Trade Union "PPRZEROBKA" commented that if workers are to
be convinced of privatization they need to have models of success.
Government Ownership of the Program
The Government stressed that the Hard Coal Reform Program was designed by Poland for Poland. While
the World Bank did agree to finance the Program with certain conditionality the responsibility for the
reform and the design of the Program was made by Government in consultation with social partners.
Conclusions
The workshop concluded by summarizing the key success and challenges of the Project.
Successes
>  employment restructuring in the mining sector without social unrest and a functioning Miners Social
Package
> creation of new workplaces by divestment of Mining Sector non core businesses
> improvement in financial result of mining sector and improvement in payment of liabilities (ZUS, PIT,
VAT)
>  improvement in payment of current liabilities to the budget
> reduction of the impact of the mining sector on environment
> increased willingness of youth to obtain higher education and awareness of the economic situation in
- 49 -



the region
;  change in mentality in the sector and in Trade Union's from dependence on subsidies
Challenges
> secondary labor market, lack of new workplaces in local market, labor mobility, lack of grow of new
enterprises
> loss of finance (income) for the gminas, poverty of residents
> considering the impact on women and developing instruments to meet their needs (training programs,
miners leave packages for women)
> activity of gmina's in creating new workplaces
;  need for further future restructuring of the coal sector
> lack of assessment of impact on regional economy
- 50 -



List of attendees
The World Bank would like to thank all stakeholders who participated in the ICR workshop for their
valuable input.
Institution                               Name
1 Ministry of Economy                          Mr. Henryk Kopec
2 Ministry of Economy                           Mr. Janusz Swadowski
3 Ministry of Labour and Social Policy          Mr. Andrzej Kawalec
4 Ministry of Environment                       Mr. Grzegorz Sojski
5 Ministry of Environment                       Mr. Eugeniusz Jedrysik
6 Ministry of Finance                           Mrs. Grazyna Kozlowska - Plewa
7 Ministry of Finance                           Mr. Beata Nehrebecka
8 Ministry of State Treaury                    Mr. Tomasz Papis
9 Voivodship office/Upper Silesian Regional     Mr. Artur Rudy
Development Agency Co.
10 Marshall Office                              Mrs. Grazyna Zdunczuk - Studnicka
11 Bytomska Mining Company                      Mr. Andrzej Skowronski
12 Gliwice Mining Company                       Mr. Janusz Imiela
13 Jastrebska Mining Company                    Mrs. Ewa Marek - Piotrowska
14 Katowice Coal Holding Company                Mr. Wlodzimierz Komaszewski
15 Nadwislanska Mining Company                  Mr. Marek Uszko
16 Rudska Mining Company                        Mr. Dariusz Tatara
17 Rybnick Mining Company                       Mr. Piotr Rykala
18 KWK Bogdanka                                 Mr. Stanislaw Stachowicz
19 Polish Foundation For Energy Efficiency      Mr. Stanislaw Pasierb
20 Institute for Sustainable Development         Mr. Wojciech Stodulski
21 Women's Right Center                          Mrs. Barbara Zylicz
22 National Agency Energy Respect                Mr. Tadeusz Skoczkowski
23 E5 (NGO)                                      Mr. Ewaryst Hille
24 KARAT Coalition                               Mrs. Kinga Lohman
25 Association of Women After Fourties           Mrs. Barbara Baran
26 Trade Union "Przer6bka"                       Chairman - S. Lukasiewicz
27 NSZZ"Solidamosc"                              Chairman - Henryk Nakonieczny
28 Voivodship Employment Office in Katowice      Mrs. Danuta Kmiecik
29 Mining Labour Agency                          Mr. Piotr Mielnicki
30 ZUS Centrala - Social Security Headquarters   Mr. Dariusz Szwarc
31 Tax Chamber in Katowice                       Mr. Jozef Kisiel
32 Central Mining institute                      Mr. Konrad Tausz
33 WFOSiGW Katowice                              Mr. Wlodzimierz Sokol
34 PARG                                          Henryk Paszcz
35 World Bank                                    Mr. Pawel Kaminski
36 World Bank                                    Mr. Christopher Gilbert Sheldon
37 World Bank                                    Mr. Jan Rutkowski
38 World Bank                                    Ms. Iwona Warzecha
- 51 -



I 39|World Bank                                 |Mr. Jacek Wojciechowicz
| 40 World Bank                                 |Mr. Maciej Koziara
- 52 -



