Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB225 
Project Name 
HIV/AIDS and STI Prevention and Control 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P083169 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Health 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 20, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 31, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 17, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Though isolated geographically, increasing cross-border migration and international travel is creating a 
situation where the Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan is no longer impervious to HIV/AIDS.  Bhutan 
appears to be at early stages of a low-grade HIV epidemic (defined as HIV prevalence below 5% in any 
defined high risk sub-population and below 1% in the general population).  UNAIDS estimates that about 
100 Bhutanese were living with HIV/AIDS at the end of 2001, which amounts to a prevalence rate of less 
than 0.01%; however, only 45 have been detected through a combination of sentinel surveillance, contact 
tracing, and clinical screening, since 1993 when the first case was reported.   However, there are 
mounting concerns because the number of new infections reported each year appears to be rising. The 
majority of these infections were acquired through unprotected sex.     
Bhutan has several risk factors and conditions that could fuel the spread of the virus.  Bhutan is a 
landlocked country, bordering the Northeast states of India, West Bengal, and Tibet.  The country’s 
borders are porous, increasingly so, with thriving commerce and trade.  Many of the northeastern Indian 
states and Nepal are already experiencing generalized or concentrated epidemics.  In addition, Bhutan has 
a significant level of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), which increase the likelihood of acquiring 
and transmitting HIV.  Authoritative and consistent anecdotal reports from clinicians also suggest that 
both gonorrhea and chlamydia are very common, with cases frequently being reported in the southern 
regions as well as the central and eastern regions.  Other risk factors in Bhutan include existence of sex 
work, limited access to condoms, which are available only at health facilities or from village health 
workers; and an emerging problem of substance abuse, particularly among youth.  In addition, relaxed 
sexual norms between men and women and high mobility, which is associated with an increase in trade 
and in the road networks, as well as foreign training and military movements both across national borders 
and within the country, could contribute to the spread of HIV and STIs. 
It is important to note that Bhutan does not appear to conform to the typical pattern of the HIV epidemic 
in Asia where the spread of HIV is driven by commercial sex and injecting drug use (IDU), at least in its 
initial stages. Commercial sex work appears to be limited in scale and primarily focused in border towns 
and injecting drug use is also believed to be limited. The role of these risk groups in the transmission of 
HIV appears to be less significant in Bhutan than in other countries.
1
  Casual sex, on the other hand, is 
                                                          
 
1
 In general, HIV infection enters communities by first infecting those whose behavior puts them at highest risk.  
Commercial sex is typically the main driving engine of HIV spread in most Asian countries, with injecting drug use 
often playing a large role by causing a large number of infections among IDUs and their sexual partners and/or by 
Page  2
 
 
reported to be prevalent among both males and females, suggesting the possibility that a large-scale 
heterosexual epidemic is possible, depending on the frequency and degree of sexual mixing in the 
country.  Results from a risk and vulnerability study
2
 carried out during project preparation suggest that 
non-paid casual sex with strangers and other non-regular partners is common among long distance 
drivers, armed forces, migrant workers and drug users. These behaviors tend to occur in specific 
geographical locations (e.g. bars, restaurants, vegetable markets) and events (e.g. festivals). Respondents 
in the study also identified several additional risk groups including businessmen and civil servants who 
travel frequently; village girls who live near highways, engage in seasonal work or travel to sell farm 
produce; girls/women employed as temporary help in offices, singers in bars, or maids; and schoolgirls 
and unemployed youth.   Although this initial study begins to define risk groups, the nature of casual sex 
behaviors requires more extensive examination (i.e., who is more likely to engage in casual sex, where is 
this prevalent (geographical variation—urban/rural, western/eastern regions; and what conditions and 
situations promote these behaviors (e.g, festivals, events, and travel).  Understanding the overlapping of 
sexual behaviors and networks—i.e., buying sex in Bhutan or elsewhere and engaging in multiple 
partners, in casual and primary partnerships—would provide critical information for improving HIV and 
STI prevention interventions. 
Although HIV prevalence is low, it is clear that numerous factors that could fuel the spread of HIV 
infection are present in the country.  Thus, action to prevent such a spread in this early stage would not 
only not only saves lives, but also mitigate potentially devastating impact on the economy and unique 
social and cultural fabric of Bhutan. 
National Response
.  In 1988, five years before the first HIV infection was detected, RGOB established a 
National AIDS Control Program (NACP).  The program is situated in the Ministry of Health (MOH), 
under the Department of Public Health, and has focused on overseeing sentinel surveillance,  distributing 
condoms to health facilities, implementing advocacy and communications activities, and monitoring 
implementation of STI treatment and Information, Education and Communications (IEC) that are taking 
place at the Dzongkhag (district) level through the medical officers and health workers.  The program has 
two full time staff members, one overseeing infection control and the other HIV/AIDS and STI 
prevention activities.  Information, Communications Bureau (ICB), which is responsible for development 
of education materials and planning communications activities, and the Royal Institute of Health Services 
(RIHS), which provides basic training to mid-level health workers, nurses, and lab technicians, also 
provide input into the national program.  In 2002 multisectoral task forces (MSTFs), composed of 
government officials and individuals from the private sector and civil society, were established in all 
districts with the mandate to carry out health promotion and HIV/AIDS awareness.  
Unlike many other aid-dependent countries, Bhutan has a strong sense of development priorities and of 
the comparative advantage of various donors.  The donors, including DANIDA and UN agencies
 
such as 
WHO, UNICEF, UNDP, and UNFPA, have worked closely with the government over the past decade in 
supporting the health sector in general, including HIV/AIDS prevention and control efforts.  DANIDA 
was the largest donor, strengthening the health infrastructure and information systems, and WHO has 
provided both technical and financial assistance to the country’s HIV/AIDS prevention program that 
                                                                                                                               
                                                           
 
“jump-starting” a commercial sex epidemic leading to substantial heterosexual spread in the population-at-large (if 
IDUs are the first group in the country to become infected and they have significant sexual exposure to sex 
workers).   
2
 
The risk and vulnerability study used qualitative methods and interviewed key informants and member of five 
priority groups identified prior to the data collection as follows: long distance drivers, migrant workers, commercial 
sex workers, drug users and armed forces. 
 
Page  3
 
 
included short-term consultants in the areas of sentinel surveillance and health education and finances to 
travel to conferences and to global and regional events.   Other support came from UNFPA, which has 
supported development and distribution of national standards and guidelines for contraceptive services 
(counseling & prevention of STIs) to field staff, and condom procurement.  UNDP provided US$200,000 
to strengthen the capacity of the MSTFs in planning and managing district
-
based HIV prevention and 
advocacy activities.   
Key Challenges
.  The national response of RGOB has been commendable, especially given the low level 
of HIV prevalence.  Bhutan faces, however, several issues and challenges in scaling up the HIV/AIDS 
response:  (i) efforts to date have been ad-hoc and not sustained; (ii) inadequate information on the nature 
of the epidemic and risk factors; (iii) NACP has staffing shortage and weak capacity; (iv) stigma attached 
to HIV/AIDS, especially people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) is widespread; (v) response lies solely 
within MOH.  The following areas would need to addressed and supported: 
(i)  Instituting a strategic response and focused prevention
.  The project would support development of a 
national HIV/AIDS policy, strengthening of existing institutions for sustainability, and interventions that 
will have the highest impact in reducing the spread of HIV.  In a low prevalence setting, such as Bhutan, 
this entails HIV/AIDS prevention efforts to reach individuals and communities that have higher rates of 
sexual partner exchange (commercial and/or casual) or needle sharing, in addition to target geographical 
hot spots (potentially high transmission areas), such as Phuntsoling, a town bordering West Bengal.  
These interventions would initially focus on known groups that are at highest risk, such as sex workers 
and mobile populations, and “hotspots” and events (bars, festivals, etc) where casual sex encounters occur 
most frequently.  Interventions would be expanded to cover other groups as information about risk 
behaviors and the epidemic is garnered through special studies, second generation surveillance and 
population surveys.  Interventions would comprise provision of STI and Voluntary Counseling and 
Testing (VCT) services through extensive outreach, referral, and involving other providers that have 
access to areas where risk behaviors take place or to populations that may engage in risk behaviors.  
Additional measures include providing condoms (ensuring availability and convenient access through 
public and private channels) and employing communications strategies that will bring about behavioral 
change outcomes, such as an increase in condom use in commercial and casual sex relations, improved 
safe sex negotiations skills, timely STI care and treatment, and partner reduction.  
(ii)  Gaining better understanding of the epidemic through improved strategic information systems
.  
There is little or no systematic data to accurately describe risk behaviors in the Bhutanese population, or 
assess the potential for HIV spread in the country.   There are many assumptions and much conflicting 
information.  In preparation for the project, a risk and vulnerability study was carried out to provide 
preliminary information and an assessment to improve the behavioral and biological surveillance system 
was undertaken. These assessments form the basis to develop a strong behavioral and sero-surveillance 
system and monitoring and evaluation, to be financed by the proposed project.   
(iii)  Strengthening institutions
.  The proposed project would strengthen NACP in its technical capacity 
(a program director will be recruited), and put in place a project management team to facilitate NACP and 
other implementing agencies, which include other departments and programs within MOH, NGOs/CBOs, 
dzongkhag authorities, and other line ministries.  Considering human resource constraints in Bhutan, the 
project would institutionalize a well-planned and sustained technical assistance program and prioritize 
training and hands-on learning programs in and out of the country. 
(iv)  Reducing stigma
.   There is high degree of fear and stigma attached to HIV/AIDS and to people and 
families affected by the virus. In a rapid assessment undertaken, PLWHA report high level of fear of 
disclosure of status to friends, families and communities, and mental anguish. Care and support is limited 
with little or no medical treatment available for HIV/AIDS related diagnoses. The project would support 
Page  4
 
 
efforts to reduce stigma and discrimination by: (i) advocacy by opinion leaders to promote positive 
attitudes towards PLWHA; (ii) providing care and treatment for PLWHA, including ART; and (iii) 
involving PLWHA in prevention programs.    
(v)  Engaging a multisectoral approach through involvement of key line ministries other than health 
and civil society
.  The proposed project would promote multisectoral involvement, especially among key 
sectors, such as education, labor, and the armed forces, as well as NGOs and community based 
organizations.  To do so, in addition to funds set aside for the multisectoral agencies, including National 
AIDS Commission (NAC), to implement prevention programs, the project would support strengthen 
technical and implementation capacity and increase advocacy to heighten high-level political commitment 
in other sectors and in the districts. 
RGOB recognizes that at this epidemiological juncture, the country has a unique opportunity to act 
vigorously, tackling the abovementioned challenges, and effectively scaling up and 
accelerating the 
national response to ensure that the level of infection in the country remains low.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The proposed project aims to reduce the risk of HIV and STI transmission among the general population, 
in particular groups whose sexual behaviors put them at high risk.  This project development objective 
would contribute to the goal of maintaining Bhutan’s low level HIV/AIDS epidemic status.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank is presently financing HIV/AIDS programs in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Pakistan 
through both IDA credit and grant.  As one of the largest financiers of HIV/AIDS control programs in the 
world, the Bank brings to the fore global and regional expertise and experience in assisting Bhutan.  In 
addition, the Bank’s unique experience in Bhutan, garnering lessons from analytical work and from 
previous and ongoing investments in many sectors (i.e. education), enriches the project design and 
implementation strategy.  The Bank’s involvement creates a higher visibility politically and socially to the 
issue of HIV/AIDS, underscores a development dimension of HIV/AIDS, more than a health-sector 
focused approach.  Moreover, the Bank places emphasis on improving the national program to produce 
the greatest impact given the stage of the epidemic and resource constraints, and strengthening capacity of 
local institutions in the public and private sectors, and provide regular and sustained implementation 
support, which will be required for scaling up, enhancing, and accelerating the Bhutan’s fight against 
HIV/AIDS and STIs.   
The Bank assistance would represent the largest source of funds for HIV/AIDS and STI prevention and 
control in Bhutan, complementing the financial and technical support from donors, such as DANIDA, and 
UN partners, in particular UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, and WHO.   
4. Description 
 
Component 1 – Prevention of HIV/AIDS and STIs
 will support: 
(i) 
improving access to and use of condoms through condom social marketing, which includes 
demand generation and availability of condoms through public and private channels and outlets, 
and strengthening logistics and information systems to ensure timely distribution of condoms in 
public health facilities, and to all implementing agencies, including community based 
organizations (CBOs);  
Page  5
 
 
(ii) 
elevating political and societal leadership and commitment to HIV/AIDS and STI prevention and 
control through advocacy targeted at high-level political and socially influential individuals and 
organizations, such as parliamentarians and religious bodies;  
(iii) 
increasing knowledge about HIV/AIDS and STIs and positive attitudes toward prevention and 
safer sexual behaviors among the general public through mass media and targeted interventions 
specifically designed to reach the local populations (e.g., at festivals and religious rituals), in 
addition to training of village health workers, traditional healers, and public health staff, and 
innovative initiatives to be undertaken by other sectors, such as Ministry of Education, 
Multisectoral Task Forces (MSTFs), NGOs, CBOs, and local businesses;  
(iv) 
promoting behaviors that reduce the risk for HIV and STI among priority groups through peer 
education, innovative outreach and communications strategies, and provision of voluntary 
counselling and testing, and STI treatment.  In addition to priority subpopulations including the 
armed forces, mobile populations (such as truck drivers), sex workers, and out-of-school youth, 
priorty areas (“hotspots”) where high risk behavior occurs among general population groups will 
be targeted.  
 
Component 2 – Institutional Strengthening and Building Capacity
 will support: 
(i) 
strengthening laboratory services by instituting a national quality assurance for all laboratories, 
establishing an information system, ensuring adequate equipment and reagents, and training 
technicians to ensure improvement in HIV and STI diagnostics and treatment;  
(ii) 
improving blood transfusion services through policy development, training of technicians and 
health workers, and campaigns to increase clinical and safe use of blood and blood products and 
voluntary donation; 
(iii) 
enhancing management, technical, and implementation capacity of the National AIDS Control 
Program, and implementing agencies (within Ministry of Health, other line ministries, and other 
civil society organizations), and strategic planning through formulation of a National Policy on 
HIV/AIDS, local and foreign training, and technical assistance. 
 
Component 3 
– 
Care, Support and Treatment of AIDS and STIs
 will support: 
(i) 
increasing access and use of VCT services through establishment of two stand-alone centers and 
three center attached to health facilities (in a phased manner) in key geographical areas, training 
of counselors, outreach services for difficult to reach populations, and demand generation for 
VCT services. 
(ii) 
strengthening management of AIDS and Opportunistic Infections (OI) and establishing care and 
support for PLWHA through development of national treatment guidelines for a comprehensive 
care and support approach, including anti-retroviral treatment as indicated; establishing and 
training district level clinical teams; improving laboratory support; instituting a drug information 
systems; and innovative grants or subprojects to involve PLWHA.   
(iii) 
improving management of STIs through routine screening of antenatal syphilis at district and 
army hospitals, updating existing STI syndromic management guidelines, improving syndromic 
treatment of STIs including antibiotic susceptibility studies, widespread dissemination of updated 
treatment guidelines to pharmacies and health facilities, and training of health care providers. 
Page  6
 
 
(iv) 
reinforcing waste management and infection control through training of health personnel, 
monitoring, and procurement of equipment and supplies (a national waste management plan was 
developed during project preparation). 
Component 4:  Strategic Information for HIV/AIDS and STI
 will support: 
(i) 
enhancing management information systems and use of information technology to promote 
evidence based decision making and strategic planning through development of IT infrastructure 
and training on management and use of data. 
(ii) 
strengthening operational research capacity, especially to carry out social and behavioral research 
through training and TA.  
(iii) 
establishing second generation surveillance and monitoring and evaluation systems, which 
include conducting assessments, population survey and special studies, obtaining technical 
assistance, and providing foreign training. 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.17 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
5.60 
 
Total 5.77 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Estimated Period of Implementation:  5 years 
Institutional arrangement
.  Main institutions involved in implementing HIV/AIDS and STI prevention 
and care and formulating related policies are the Ministry of Health—through the Project Management 
Team (PMT), the National AIDS control Program, various divisions and programs of MOH, such as 
Public Health Laboratory and School Health, other line ministries, civil society, including NGOs and 
CBOs, and private for-profit sector.   Their roles and responsibilities are described below:     
National AIDS Commission
.  The National AIDS Committee (NAC) was established in 1994, but has 
seldom metIn February 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers has called for revitalization of the National AIDS 
Commission (formerly Committee).  The Commission, chaired by the Minister of Health, includes 
members from various key ministries, representing Labor, Home Affairs, Finance, Civil Service, Armed 
Forces, Education, as well as representative from MSTFs and civil society (i.e. National Women’s 
Association of Bhutan, and Kuensel, Bhutanese newspaper).  The Commission would be responsible for 
overseeing the overall national effort on HIV/AIDS and STI prevention, care and treatment, formulating 
policies, coordinating the national response, and mobilizing resources, commitment and collaboration 
from the public and private sectors, and civil society.  The project would build capacity of NAC to make 
policies, and undertake advocacy, coordination across the various sectors, and monitoring.     
Ministry of Health
.  MOH would continue to assume the technical leadership and management of NACP 
and the proposed project.  The Departments of Policy and Planning, Public Health, and Medical Services, 
through central and district level medical staff, health workers and technicians, would be responsible for 
implementing many of the activities, across the project components, in particular in laboratory support, 
HIV/AIDS care and STI management. 
National AIDS Control Program
, situated in the Ministry of Health, under the Directorate of Public 
Health, is headed by a Program Director.   NACP will (i) provide technical leadership on HIV/AIDS and 
Page  7
 
 
support to all implementing agencies; (ii) monitor and ensure technical quality of interventions; (iii) 
identify HIV/AIDS training needs, and coordinate with Master Plan for HRD; (iv) in collaboration with 
PPD, manage HIV/AIDS information generated from surveillance and M&E system; and (v) liaise with 
external donors, the Bank, and others to ensure that all program activities are coordinated.  NACP will 
collaborate with and receive management and administrative support from the Project Management 
Team. 
 
Other Line Ministries
.  Reaching at risk populations with HIV and STI prevention would also be 
achieved through involvement of line ministries other than health.  Six priority ministries have been 
identified:  the Ministry of Education to work with youth in and out of school; the Armed Forces with the 
personnel and families of the Army, Police, and Royal Body Guard; Ministry of Information and 
Communications with transport workers (including truck drivers); Ministry of Labor and Human 
Resources with migrant workers; Royal Civil Service Commission with civil servants; and the Ministry of 
Home and Cultural Affairs Religion and Cultural Affairs Department with the religious community. Each 
selected line ministry, with a designated focal point, would prepare an annual workplan, which would 
then be reviewed and approved by the PMT and Technical Committee.  The focal point  - an individual 
identified in each participating Ministry or Agency - would be responsible for coordinating HIV/AIDS 
related activities in their respective institutions adapting the components of the national program to the 
specific needs and characteristics of their constituencies and target populations.  The workplan exercise 
would be incorporated into the existing RGOB planning and budgeting process.  The first year would 
focus on developing workplans and providing technical input into the process based on knowledge of best 
practices.  The OM and Annex 6 details the annual workplan process, including eligible expenditures, 
results monitoring, and reporting.   
Dzongkhags
.  At the district level, with the leadership of the Dzongda (Governor), the health authorities 
(i.e., District Medical Officer and District Health Supervisor) would be responsible for managing and 
coordinating prevention activities, and implementation would be largely carried out by: (i) Multisectoral 
Task Forces (MSTF) members who would focus on undertaking advocacy (e.g., reducing stigma), 
providing political and social support for prevention activities, and mobilizing the community; and (ii) a 
network of outreach workers/peer educators who would be established to provide core prevention 
services, including condom distribution, referral for VCT and STI treatment, and increasing knowledge 
about HIV transmission and prevention.  Although all twenty Dzongkhags would be involved in 
implementation, some, which have a higher level of risk (i.e., greater number of “hotspots” and high risk 
populations), would require greater resources and management and technical input.  Dzongkhags would 
be responsible for developing an annual workplan, which would submitted to and approved by PMT and 
the Technical Committee, including NACP, to ensure that proposed activities are in line with national 
objectives, are of sound quality, and follow procedures and eligible expenditures that are detailed in the 
OM. In addition, monitoring of results by PMT and NACP would ensure that Dzongkhags which can 
demonstrate results as planned would receive more funds.  The first year of the project would focus on 
building capacity of the Dzongkhags to under HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support. 
Multisectoral Task Forces
.  MSTFs have been established in all districts with the mandate to address 
health issues; at present they are primarily working on HIV/AIDS awareness-promoting activities.  In 
2002, UNDP funded capacity building of MSTFs and provided seed funds for prevention activities. 
MSTFs would continue to play a significant role in coordinating HIV prevention at the district level under 
the proposed project.  Specifically, MSTFs would submit their proposal to the Dzongkhag.  Their primary 
role would be to engage in advocacy, coordinate, implement and/or monitor approved activities and 
support member NGOs, CBOs and private organizations in implementing HIV/AIDS activities in their 
Dzongkhag. 
Page  8
 
 
NGOs/CBOs and private sector
.  In Bhutan, emerging local NGOs and CBOs though limited at present 
time, provide an opportunity for the program to expand access to prevention services to the grassroots and 
highly vulnerable populations.  Many of the existing NGOs and CBOs belong to MSTF.  The role of the 
private sector in the proposed project would be primarily two-fold: providing consultancy and services 
according to the contract, and engaging in advocacy among business firms and leaders.   These 
NGOs/CBOs and private organizations would receive funds in two ways:  (i) thr
ough Dzongkhag as a 
member of MSTF (workplan); and (ii) direct funding from MOH with submission of a small proposal 
(subproject).   
Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
: Consultants, contractors, and suppliers operating across the 
country and the region may be contracted through PMT to support program activities.   
Project Management
.  With an objective of building in-house capacity of MOH, a team will be 
established to provide management and administrative support to the implementing agencies.  Situated in 
the Secretariat, PMT has the following role and responsibilities:  (i) coordinate and manage 
implementation of project activities with IAs (e.g., MOH departments and divisions, other sectors, 
Dzonghkags, MSTFs, and NGOs); (ii) regularly supervise, monitor, evaluate, and report on project 
activities to the relevant government agencies and to the Bank; (iii) oversee financial management and 
procurement of goods, civil works, and consultancies; and (iv) liaise with the Bank on a regular basis on 
all project-related activities, including planning and preparation of missions.  
Technical Committee
:
 The Technical Committee would ensure that preparation and implementation by 
NACP, PMT staff and consultants is in conformity with the objectives of the project and is carried out 
according to the terms of reference for specific components/activities. The Technical Committee will be 
chaired by the Director of the Department of Public Health and would comprise PMT staff, NACP 
program manager, component coordinators, and representatives of relevant institutions and programs.   
This Committee would also provide an entry point for input from donor agencies.  
Responsibilities of this committee include: (i) ensure coordination between the project, MoH, the health 
authorities and other public entities; (ii) coordinate the activities of different donors in order to increase 
the efficient use of resources;  (iii) approve work-plans submitted by public institutions; (iv) approve sub-
projects submitted by NGOs and other civil society organization; (v) ensure that the Project Operational 
Manual (OM) are developed and maintained updated; (vi) ensure that the hiring of the Technical 
Assistance and  all training activities are timely prepared and organized and will also ensure that 
communications and coordination and reporting links with the related stakeholders are established and 
well conducted; (vii) coordinate Bank and other Donors’ supervision missions, and carry out the mid-term 
review of the project; (viii) ensure that implementation is in conformity with the objectives of the project 
and is carried out according to the terms of reference for specific objectives/ activities. 
Implementation mechanisms
.  The project would employ three types of implementation mechanisms:  
workplan, subprojects, and contracts.  The type of implementing agency and type of intervention would 
determine the mechanisms. Annex 6 details the cycle and critieria. 
\01fi
Workplan
.  The divisions and programs within MoH, other line ministries and Dzongkhags, would 
prepare an annual workplan for project activities, following the existing annual planning mechanism 
(as set by MOF) and according to the cycle and criteria established in the OM.  Funds would be 
disbursed based on utilization certificate and results achieved. 
 
\01fi
Subprojects
.  NGOs and private institutions would be eligible based on selection criteria, detailed in 
the OM, would develop a proposal and financing plan for a subproject, and upon approval of the 
proposal by PMT and the Technical Committee, including NACP, the implementation agency (IA) 
Page  9
 
 
would sign a legal agreement with the Project Coordinator and funds would be disbursed based on 
utilization certificate and reporting on progress and results.
 
 
\01fi
Contracting
.  IA (e.g., suppliers, contractors, private sector) would be recruited and hired based on 
IDA Guidelines and Standard Bidding Documents and, upon selection, IA would sign a contract with 
the Project Coordinator.  Payment would then be released upon meeting the specified indicators and 
deliverables.
 
 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
RGOB has indicated strong commitment to fighting HIV/AIDS. It heeded the HIV/AIDS threat early, 
recognizing the dangerous repercussions of apathy, inaction, and denial that frequently accompany a low 
prevalence setting.  More recently, the National Assembly addressed HIV/AIDS issues over each of the 
past four consecutive sessions. The Ninth Five-Year Plan has also identified HIV/AIDS and STD 
prevention and control as one of the country’s most important programs, in the context of addressing 
emerging health issues for the Bhutanese population and promoting healthy outcomes of women and 
adolescents.  In addition, Her Majesty Queen Ashi Sangay Choden Wangchuk is the UNFPA Goodwill 
Ambassador, and an outspoken advocate of HIV/AIDS and STI prevention.  In February 2004 the Cabinet 
of Ministers called upon revitalization of the National AIDS Committee.  A newly named National AIDS 
Commission with expansion of its membership to civil society and private sector, has been reconstituted 
to strengthen multisectoral involvement in HIV/AIDS.  Although commitment from sectors, other than 
health and at district level varies, the project would support advocacy, training, to increase awareness and 
relevance of HIV/AIDS as a multisectoral and development issue.  
To ensure implementation sustainability, the project design and strategy utilizes and builds capacity of 
existing institutions to manage and implement the project and relies on leadership and champions within 
MOH.  The leadership from MOH is expected, given that the epidemic remains invisible to many other 
sectors.  The project would strengthen engagement of other line ministries and civil society in HIV/AIDS 
prevention and cultivate leadership from all sectors.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
This project builds on key lessons learned in designing and implementing HIV/AIDS projects in the 
region and around the world: 
\01fi
Key stakeholders from the public and private sectors, civil society, such as the media and religious 
body, and donor agencies, have been involved in project preparation and will continue their 
involvement throughout implementation, to ensure country’s ownership and reduce political and 
social risks to the project. 
\01fi
Emphasis is placed on improving strategic information systems, namely surveillance and monitoring 
and evaluation, for planning and policy decisions, in particular given poor data on risk behaviors and 
conditions. 
\01fi
Prevention of HIV and STIs remains the core of the response and support, in particular at this very 
early stage of the epidemic. However, the increasing numbers of PLWHA make the development and 
implementation of a comprehensive care and support package essential.  
\01fi
Prevention and treatment are not mutually exclusive, as care, support and treatment for PLHA could 
reduce the spread of HIV through biological (by reducing the infectivity/viral load) and social (by 
increasing involvement of PLWA in education and advocacy) means. 
Page  10
 
 
\01fi
Prevention and care and support services are linked in the project. The provision of medical treatment 
and counseling services for PLWHA and prevention of mother to child transmission will encourage 
use of VCT services, as well as PLWHA involvement in prevention programs. However, the BCC 
strategy will take steps to avoid the negative outcome of increased risk behaviors, due to a perceived 
mitigation of the effects of HIV infection as a result of ART availability. 
\01fi
Respecting rights, specifically in HIV/AIDS testing and treatment of PLHA and highly vulnerable 
populations, is a critical aspect of prevention and control.  This effort would prevent the epidemic 
from going underground, and thereby, further fueling the spread of HIV. 
 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
With support from DANIDA, RGOB has prepared a draft Health Care Waste Management Plan.  The 
proposed project would finance two components of this plan: (i) waste that is a direct result of project 
financed activities; and (ii) establish a system to treat and dispose of clinical waste produced by the 
National Referral Hospital in Thimpu in an environmentally acceptable manner.  The components include 
sharps management, technical assistance for training and awareness raising on HCWM for health care 
personnel, and procurement of supplies and equipment. 
While there is no national legislation on healthcare waste management in Bhutan, the RGOB has taken 
different initiatives for enforcing good practices and measures for handling general biomedical waste. 
There are Infection Control Guidelines and Environmental Codes of Practices for Hazardous Waste 
Management which provides some basic guidelines for segregation and disposal of biomedical waste. 
Waste management and infection control is also a part of the curricula offered by the Royal Institute of 
Health Services.  Additionally there are new guidelines with regard to solid waste management including 
biomedical waste generated from healthcare facilities. An assessment completed in 2002 noted that health 
workers have a reasonably good knowledge of occupational safety and good practices but these are not 
always practiced often because of lack of resources and proper equipment.  
 
With support from DANIDA, RGOB has prepared a draft Health Care Waste Management Plan.  The 
proposed project would finance two components of this plan: (i) waste that is a direct result of project 
financed activities; and (ii) establish a system to treat and dispose of clinical waste produced by the 
National Referral Hospital in Thimpu in an environmentally acceptable manner.  The components include 
sharps management, technical assistance for training and awareness raising on HCWM for health care 
personnel, and procurement of supplies and equipment. 
MOH is currently undertaking extensive consultations with various key stakeholders, such as the Thimpu 
City Corporation and National Environmental Commission, as well as incorporating the comments from 
IDA team into the Plan.  Upon the completion of the revisions, RGOB intends to disclose the Plan to the 
general public. 
As stated in the Special Procedures for Compliance with Safeguards to support accelerated 
implementation of HIV/AIDS projects, the Bank will accept the receipt of an acceptable HCWMP as a 
condition prior to commencing implementation of the project, rather than prior
 to appraisal of the overall 
project, and disclosure of HCWMP will not be required before
 appraisal.  The project appraisal will begin 
on April 1.  It was agreed that public disclosure of the Plan will take place prior to negotiations. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
Page  11
 
 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
 
 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Draft Health care waste management plan 
HIV/AIDS risk and vulnerability study:  Qualitative Assessment 
Surveillance report 
Assessment of AIDS Treatment option 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Hnin Hnin Pyne 
Title: Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-3208 
Email: hpyne@worldbank.org 
 
12.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
