Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H103-BHU 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS and STI Prevention and Control Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 1, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H103-BHU 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 2004, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immuno-deficiency Syndrome; 
 
(b) 
“Community-Based Organization” or “CBO” means a community-based 
organization established and operating in the Recipient’s territory and registered with the 
Recipient, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive an Innovation 
Grant (as hereinafter defined);  
 
(c) 
“Dzongkhag” means a district established under the Recipient’s laws; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“HIV” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus; 
 
(f) 
“Infection Control and Health Care Waste Management Plan” means  the 
Recipient’s National Plan for Health Care Waste Management dated April 20, 2004, 
Page  3
-
2
-
including any amendments to such document, satisfactory to the Association, that shall: 
(i) enable the Recipient to assess, among other things, the Project’s environmental and 
public health impacts; and (ii) where applicable, govern the preparation of environmental 
management plans and other appropriate mechanisms, satisfactory to the Association, 
required to mitigate and monitor any adverse impacts from carrying out the Project; 
 
(g) 
“Innovation Grant” means the innovation grants made, or proposed to be 
made, by the Recipient to Line Ministries and Agencies (as hereinafter defined), 
Dzongkhags, NGOs (as hereinafter defined), CBOs, or other entities, to finance a 
Workplan (as hereinafter defined) or a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined), as the case 
may be; 
 
(h) 
“Innovation Grant Agreement” means a written agreement to be entered 
into between MoH (as hereinafter defined) and NGOs (as hereinafter defined), CBOs, or 
other entities, as the case may be, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Line Ministries and Agencies” means the Recipient’s ministries or 
agencies participating in this project, including, among others, the Recipient’s Ministries 
of Health, Labor and Human Resources, Information and Communications, Education, 
Home and Cultural Affairs, and various agencies or departments within any of the 
Recipient’s ministries, such as, inter alia, the Royal Civil Service Commission, Religious 
Affairs, and Armed Forces; 
 
(j) 
“MoH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health or any successor entity 
thereto; 
 
(k) 
“MSTFs” means the Multisectoral Task Forces established to address 
health issues at each Dzongkhags; 
 
(l) 
“National STD/AIDS Control Program” means the Recipient’s National 
STD/AIDS Control Program to implement National HIV/AIDS Commission (as 
hereinafter defined) policy decisions and oversee implementation of HIV/AIDS and STI 
(as hereinafter defined) prevention and control activities; 
 
(m) 
“National HIV/AIDS Commission” means a commission chaired by the 
Minister of Health and comprising representatives from Line Ministries and Agencies 
as well as MSTFs, NGOs (as hereinafter defined) and CBOs, and private sector 
organizations; 
 
(n) 
“Non-Governmental Organization” or “NGO” means a non-
governmental organization established and operating in the Recipient’s territory and 
registered with the Recipient, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and, as a result, has received or is entitled to 
receive an Innovation Grant; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“OI” means opportunistic infections; 
 
(p) 
“Operational Manual” means the Recipient’s Project Operational Manual 
dated April 27, 2004, as amended from time to time with the Association’s agreement, 
containing, among other things, details regarding, project implementation plan, staffing 
arrangements and terms of references, the Innovation Grants, criteria for selecting 
Community-Based Organizations and Non-Governmental Organizations for Project 
activities, including criteria for monitoring and evaluation activities; 
 
(q) 
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS; 
 
(r) 
“PMT” means the Project Management Team established within MoH 
for assisting in carrying out the Project; 
 
(s) 
“Priority Groups” means populations that are greatest at risk of 
contracting HIV/AIDS and STIs, namely, inter alia, sex workers, transport workers, 
armed forces personnel, out-of-school youth, and migrant workers; 
 
(t) 
“Priority Areas” means areas declared hotspot
s
by
the Recipient where 
high risk behavior to contract HIV/AIDS and STIs (as hereinafter defined) exist;   
 
(u) 
“Second Generation Surveillance” means the Recipient’s ongoing 
systematic collection, collation, and analysis of behavioral and serological data for 
compilation of strategic information for HIV/AIDS and STIs (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(v) 
“Sub-Project” means a specific activity or set of activities financed, or 
proposed to be financed, through an Innovation Grant made under Part A.3 or C.2 of the 
Project; 
 
(w) 
“STIs” means Sexually Transmitted Infections; 
 
(x) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(y) 
“VCT” means voluntary counseling and testing; and 
 
(z) 
“Workplan” means annual work plan of each of the Line Ministries and 
Agencies, and Dzongkhags to implement the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Royal Monetary Authority on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States dollars or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 15 
and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate education, 
environmental and social, health, sanitary, administrative, financial and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4. The Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Tashichhodzong 
 
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
890-201 
 
323154 
 
Thimphu, 
Bhutan 
     
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New York, New York, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
By /s/ Daw Penjo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Enrique Pantoja 
 
Acting Country Director 
Bhutan 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of  
 
Grant Allocated 
Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Civil works 
    70,000 
97% 
 
(2)  Goods, equipment and 
1,240,000 
100% of foreign 
 
vehicles  
expenditures, 
100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 95% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3)  Services 
 
97% 
 
(a)  
Consultants’ services 
 
690,000 
 
(b)  Services other than  
 
120,000 
 
Consultants’ services 
 
Under Parts A.2 and  
 
D.1 of the Project 
 
(4) Training 
 
    1,070,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Innovation Grants 
560,000 
  
   100% 
 
(6)  Incremental Operating Costs                
100,000 
50% of expenditures 
 
up
to June 30, 2009 
 
(7)  Unallocated 
          
150,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 
    4,000,000 
 
========== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  12
-
11
-
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means vehicle maintenance, 
fuel, insurance, supervision field visits (travel and per diem), office rental, office 
supplies, utilities, and communications expenses, including internet connections. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of SDR 350,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2004; and (b) expenditures under Category (5), unless and until 
guidelines for the processing, approval, and implementation of Innovation Grants 
satisfactory to the Association have been developed and adopted by the Recipient. 
 
4.  
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the 
provisions of the Rules on the Sales Tax, Customs and Excise Act of the Kingdom of 
Bhutan 2000, which provide for an exemption of taxes and customs duties levied in the 
territory of the Recipient on goods for this Project. If any change is made to said rules 
which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods, the percentages 
referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods and equipment under contracts 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent each; (iii) service of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) service of individual 
consultants under contract costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (v) services other 
than consultants’ services under contracts costing less than $30,000 each; (vi) training; 
(vii) Innovation Grants; and (viii) all Incremental Operating Costs, each under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
6. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to reduce the risk of 
HIV/AIDS and STI transmission. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Prevention of HIV/AIDS and STIs
Supporting the following broad-based programs that will contribute to reducing 
the spread of HIV/AIDS and STIs: 
 
1. 
Promoting of safer sex behaviors, including increasing condom availability and 
use. 
 
2. 
Undertaking of advocacy and increasing knowledge among policy makers and 
opinion leaders, the media, law enforcement, health-care providers, and religious bodies. 
 
3. 
Financing of Innovation Grants through Workplans and Sub-Projects that 
include: (i) promoting behavior change among Priority Groups, including Priority Areas 
through peer education, innovative outreach and communications strategies related to 
HIV/AIDS and STIs; and (ii) provision of VCT and STI treatment to Priority Groups. 
 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening of laboratory services to ensure improvement in HIV and STI 
diagnostics and treatment through: (i) the instituting of a national quality assurance for all 
laboratories; (ii) the establishing of a laboratory information system; and (iii) the 
provision of training to technical staff. 
 
2. 
Improving of blood transfusion services through: (i) the developing of a policy 
on blood safety; (ii) the carrying out of campaigns to mobilize and increase voluntary 
blood donation; and (iii) the provision of training to technical and/or healthcare staff on 
safe blood transfusion and rational use of blood and blood products. 
 
3. 
Enhancing capacity of the following agencies involved in Bhutan’s response to 
HIV/AIDS and STIs: 
 
(a) 
National STD/AIDS Control Program. 
 
(b) 
National HIV/AIDS Commission. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(c) 
Line Ministries and Agencies, and Dzongkhags. 
 
(d) 
NGOs, CBOs and other voluntary and private organizations. 
 
4. 
Formulating of a National Policy on HIV/AIDS, through the provision of 
technical assistance and training. 
 
Part C
:
Care, Support and Treatment of HIV/AIDS and STIs
1. 
Establishment of about five VCT centers in key areas to provide VCT services, 
including the carrying out of outreach services to vulnerable areas and the provision of 
training to counselors at selected hospitals. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of management of HIV/AIDS and OI, and establishing support for 
PLWHA through: (i) the developing of national treatment guidelines for a comprehensive 
care and support approach, including anti-retroviral treatment; (ii) the establishing and 
training of Dzongkhag level clinical teams; (iii) the improving of laboratory support; (iv) 
the instituting of a drug administrative system; and (v) the provision of Innovation 
Grants. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of management of STIs through: (i) the carrying out of routine 
screening of ANC syphilis at Dzongkhag and army hospitals; (ii) the updating of existing 
STI syndromic management guidelines; (iii) the improving of syndromic treatment of 
STIs, including the carrying out of antibiotic susceptibility studies; (iv) the disseminating 
of updated treatment guidelines to pharmacies and health facilities; and (v) the provision 
of training to health care providers. 
 
4. 
Implementation of the Infection Control and Health Care Waste Management 
Plan through the provision of training and equipment to staff of health facilities. 
 
Part D
:
Strategic Information for HIV/AIDS and STI
1. 
Expansion of the existing information technology (IT) infrastructure through:  
(i) the promoting of evidence based decision making and strategic planning; (ii) the 
installation of local area network (LAN) and implementing network linkage between 
information systems; and (iii) the provision of technical assistance and training. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of operational research capacity programs, including the carrying 
out of social and behavioral research activities through the provision of  training and 
technical assistance. 
 
3. 
Establishment of Second Generation Surveillance and monitoring and evaluation 
systems, through the carrying out of various studies, surveys and assessments, and 
provision of training. 
Page  15
-
14
-
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Sec
tion I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.  
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract and works 
irrespective of the value under the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, provided 
that: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
(iii) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed with the Association; 
 
(iv) 
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(v) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
 
(vi) 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidders or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(x) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
 
(xi) 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
 
(xii) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xiii) 
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xiv) 
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
(A) 
if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be 
disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next 
lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
 
(B) 
if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of 
the Association. 
 
(xv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (i) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (ii) for all 
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period; 
 
(xvi) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; and 
 
(xvii) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods and activities related to, inter alia: (a) installation of local area network 
(LAN), including implementing network linkage between information systems; 
 
(b) communications activities, all estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (c) HIV test kits, may all be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
(a) Goods, including, inter alia, software, books, journals costing $1000 
equivalent or less per contract financed under Innovation Grants; (b) communications 
activities, estimated to cost less than $5000 equivalent per contract; and (c) vehicles and 
ARV drugs, may all be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning  
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
Page  19
-
18
-
approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) the first contract for works awarded in accordance with 
paragraph C.1 of this Section I irrespective of the value; (ii) each subsequent contracts for 
works awarded in accordance with paragraph C.1 of this Section I estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more; (iii) each contract for goods awarded in accordance with 
paragraph B.1 of this Section I irrespective of the value; and (iv) the first contract for 
goods awarded in accordance with paragraph C.1 of this Section I irrespective of the 
value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.1 through 
2.28 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  20
-
19
-
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, with prior 
concurrence of the Association, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  21
-
20
-
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, for purposes of the Project, maintain the Operational Manual 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with said Manual. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operational Manual if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a PMT within MoH for the overall coordination and 
management of the Project, and ensure that the PMT is adequately staffed with 
individuals having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association 
throughout the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that a project coordinator, a finance officer, an accountant, a 
procurement officer and a technical officer, all suitably qualified and experienced and 
acceptable to the Association, shall be assigned to the PMT throughout the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and other measures set forth in the Infection 
Control and Health Care Waste Management Plan in accordance with the objectives, 
policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set forth therein, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
implementation. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Innovation Grants:  
 
(a) 
under Sub-Projects shall be made to NGOs, CBOs, or other entities, as 
the case may be, in accordance with the Operational Manual, with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(b) 
under Workplans shall be made to Line Ministries and Agencies, and 
Dzongkhags, in accordance with the Operational Manual, with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts that do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
Page  25
-
24
-
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to that provision in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
Page  26
-
25
-
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be Granted to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Procedures, Terms and Conditions for carrying out Sub-Projects 
 
1. 
An Innovation Grant for Sub-Projects under Parts A.3 and C.2 of the Project 
shall be made by the Recipient, through MoH, only: 
 
(a) 
to a CBO, NGO, or other entity, as the case may be, if that entity has 
established, to the satisfaction of MoH, and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, that it has the organization, management, staffing and other resources 
required for the efficient carrying out of Sub-Projects, and has prepared an acceptable 
plan for the carrying out of said Sub-Project; and 
 
(b) 
for Sub-Projects that are: (i) technically feasible and cost effective, and 
designed in accordance with appropriate environmental and health standards; and 
(ii) reviewed and approved by the Association. 
 
2. 
All Innovation Grants shall be made only upon such terms and conditions under 
which MoH, shall obtain, through an Innovation Grant Agreement, rights adequate and 
appropriate to protect the interests of the Association and the Recipient. These rights shall 
include among other things: 
 
(a) 
require the CBO, NGO, or other entity, as the case may be, which 
receives an Innovation Grant, to carry out and operate Sub-Projects with due diligence 
and efficiency, in accordance with sound educational, technical, financial and managerial 
standards, and pursuant to the environmental, social and other principles, measures, 
procedures and guidelines set out in the Operational Manual and, where applicable, the 
Infection Control and Health Care Waste Management Plan; 
 
(b) 
require the CBO, NGO, or other entity, as the case may be, to maintain 
policies, procedures and records adequate to enable the entity to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the 
carrying out of Sub-Projects and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(c) 
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of Sub-Projects; 
 
(d) 
require that the CBO, NGO, or other entity, as the case may be, shall 
insure or make adequate provision for the insurance of the goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and 
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation; 
 
Page  28
-
27
-
(e) 
obtain all such information as the Association and/or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be derived from such 
Sub-Project; 
 
(f) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods and works financed under Sub-Projects, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents related thereto; and 
 
(g) 
suspend or terminate the right of the CBO, NGO, or other entity, as the 
case may be, to the use of the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by such CBO, NGO, or 
other entity to perform its obligations under its agreement with MoH providing for the 
Innovation Grant. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” 
shall continue to read “credit”.  
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
 
Page  30
-
29
-
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02(a)(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement 
or any development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
(c) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02(c)(i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
 
7. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
