Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4785-MR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For the Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 29, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4785-MR 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 29, 2010, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF MAURITANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
16,900,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s minister at the time responsible 
for economy. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development  
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development 
BP 238 
Nouakchott 
Mauritania 
Facsimile:  
222-525-33-35 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  4
3
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
AGREED at Nouakchott, Islamic Republic of Mauritania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
 
By //s// H.E. Sidi Ould Tah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By //s// Brahim Ould Abdelwedoud 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient
’s central and local 
governments to (i) improve access to basic services and infrastructure in targeted urban 
areas; and (ii) increase access to micro-finance and income generating activities for the 
slum population. 
1. 
The Project consists of the following part: 
2. 
Provision of Basic Urban Infrastructure in the Main Cities 
Carrying out of basic urban infrastructure works and provision of services in 
slums of the Main Cities through: (a) the construction or rehabilitation of paved and 
unpaved roads; and (b ) the extension of the water network (including rainwater drainage, 
treatment and potable water distribution) and electricity transmission line and distribution 
network (including street lighting), for the purpose of, 
inter alia
,
supporting labor 
intensive economic activities. 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Project Coordination Unit 
(a) 
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Recipient shall 
maintain the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which shall remain 
responsible for the Project coordination and implementation including, 
inter alia
,
financial management, supervision, monitoring, reporting, 
auditing, and capacity building. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PCU, throughout the implementation 
of the Project, consists of professional staff, all in adequate number and 
with terms of reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.   
2. Municipal 
Contracts 
(a) 
The Recipient shall enter into municipal contracts (each a “Municipal 
Contract”) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association with 
each of the Main Cities pursuant to which, 
inter alia
,
the Recipient shall 
provide funds on a grant basis for the financing of basic urban 
infrastructure in such Main City and the Main City shall: (i) commit to 
enter into a MDOD Agreement for the implementation of the civil works 
needed to complete such basic urban infrastructure, and other related 
services; (ii) provide the resources necessary for the recurrent 
maintenance of such basic infrastructure; and (iii) achieve agreed results. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Municipal Contracts in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Municipal 
Contracts or any of their provisions
.
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Paragraph (b) above, the 
Recipient shall ensure that the Main City shall contribute the resources 
needed for the maintenance of the basic urban infrastructure financed 
under the Project, in accordance with the terms and conditions of its 
Municipal Contract. 
Page  7
6
3. 
MDOD Agreements  
(a) 
The Recipient shall enter into a framework agreement in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association with AMEXTIPE, and cause 
each Main City to enter into an agreement with AMEXTIPE for the 
purpose of carrying out and supervising the civil works for the Project 
and other related services including procurement, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association (each a 
“MDOD Agreement”). 
(b) 
Without limitation to the generality of Paragraph (a) above, each MDOD 
Agreement shall include provisions pursuant to which the Recipient and 
the Main City shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Association, including the right to require each Main 
City and AMEXTIPE to cause:  
(A) its activities under the Project to be carried out with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, 
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Association, including, without limitation to the 
generality of the foregoing, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Financing 
proceeds other than the Recipient, and in accordance with the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, as well as the Environmental and Social Management 
Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan prepared for its activities under 
the Project, if applicable to this type of activities;  
(B) the resources required for the purpose of its activities under the 
Project to be provided, promptly as needed;  
(C) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Financing to be procured in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement;  
(D) policies and procedures to be maintained, which are adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Association, the progress of the activities carried out 
under the Project and the achievement of its objectives;  
Page  8
7
(E) (1) a financial management system to be maintained and financial 
statements to be prepared in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the activities carried out in the Main City under the Project; and (2) at the 
Association’s or the Recipient’s request, such financial statements to be 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, and the financial statements as so audited to be promptly 
furnished to the Recipient and the Association;  
(F) the Recipient and the Association to be able to inspect the activities 
carried out in the Main City under the Project, their operation and any 
relevant records and documents; and  
(G) all such information as the Recipient or the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing to be prepared and furnished 
to the Recipient and the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise, and shall cause each Main City to exercise, 
their respective rights under the MDOD Agreements in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall, and shall cause each Main City 
to, refrain from assigning, amending, abrogating
 
or
waiving the MDOD 
Agreements or any of their provisions. 
4. 
The Recipient shall not request a withdrawal from the Financing Account for the 
financing of basic urban infrastructure in a Main City unless: (i) a framework 
agreement has been signed between the Recipient and AMEXTIPE; (ii) a 
Municipal Contract has been signed between the Recipient and such Main City in 
accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iii) a MDOD 
Agreement has been signed between such Main City and AMEXTIPE in 
accordance with Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (iv) the 
Association has received satisfactory evidence of compliance with the applicable 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework.  
B. 
Other Implementation Arrangements
 
1. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual.  
Page  9
8
(b) 
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient 
shall have amended the Project Implementation Manual in order to 
reflect the specific requirements of the Project. 
(c) 
The Project Implementation Manual may be amended from time to time 
in consultation with the Association.  Unless the Recipient and the 
Association shall otherwise agree in writing, the Recipient shall not 
amend, abrogate, or waive any provision of the Project Implementation 
Manual in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, could have 
a
material adverse impact on the implementation of the Project. 
(d) 
In the event that any provision of the Project Implementation Manual 
shall conflict with any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that, throughout the implementation of the Project, the 
Project shall be implemented in accordance with the guidelines, procedures, 
timetables and other specifications set forth in the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework.  In particular, 
the Recipient shall ensure that:   
(a) 
for each activity under the Project of a category for which the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework provides that an 
Environmental and Social Management Plan should be prepared, such 
Environmental and Social Management Plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, is effectively prepared and locally 
disclosed, before the implementation of such activity, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework, 
and the relevant activity is implemented in accordance with its 
Environmental and Social Management Plan; and 
(b) 
for each activity under the Project of a category for which the 
Resettlement Policy Framework provides that a Resettlement Action 
Plan should be prepared, such Resettlement Action Plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, is effectively prepared and 
locally disclosed, before the implementation of such activity, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework, 
Page  10
9
and the relevant activity is implemented in accordance with its 
Resettlement Action Plan. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to 
compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements, the 
Recipient shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of 
any of the Safeguard Documents.  
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the 
Association
,
on a 
semi-annual basis, reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguard 
Documents, giving details of:  
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents;  
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
smooth implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and  
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
4. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with 
any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
E. Counterpart 
funds 
1. 
In accordance with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
to the Recipient’s obligations under said Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, 
the Recipient shall contribute an amount of not less than the equivalent of two 
million four hundred thousand Dollars ($2,400,000) for the financing of 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Financing, including fees payable to AMEXTIPE under the MDOD Agreements 
and Operating Costs from July 1
st
,
2011 to the Closing Date, all as counterpart 
funds (“Counterpart Funds”). 
2. 
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, 
the Project Account in Ouguiya in the name of the PCU in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, for the payment of Counterpart Funds. 
3. 
The Recipient shall deposit in the Project Account the amount of Counterpart 
Funds in two installments as follows: 
(a) 
no later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, an initial amount 
equivalent to one million two hundred thousand Dollars ($1,200,000); 
and 
Page  11
10 
 
(b) 
no later than ten (10) months after the Effective Date, the balance of the 
Counterpart Funds or an amount equivalent to one million two hundred 
thousand Dollars ($1,200,000), whichever is more; 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project other than those financed 
from the proceeds of the Financing. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than November 30, 2012. 
3. 
Twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be agreed 
upon by the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient shall, in conjunction 
with the Association, carry out a mid-
term review of the Project (the “Mid-term 
Review”), covering the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
The Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not less than three (3) months prior to 
the beginning of the Mid-term Review, or on such later date agreed upon with the 
Association in writing, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective of the Project 
during the period following such date. Following the Mid-term Review, the 
Recipient shall act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause to be taken, 
any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project. 
Page  12
11 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one month after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
No later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
adapted its financial management system in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, for the management of the proceeds of the Financing. 
5. 
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
either (i) recruited an external independent auditor selected on the basis of terms 
of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, or (ii) amended 
the terms of reference of the external independent auditor recruited for the audit 
of the financial statements of the Recipient’s for the Original Project, for the 
purpose of, 
inter alia
,
carrying out the financial audits referred to in Paragraph 3 
above. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  13
12 
 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding (*)  
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting subject to prior approval from the Association 
(*) National Competitive Bidding may be used subject to complying with the 
following provisions: 
(i) 
bids shall be advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation;  
(ii) 
bid evaluation, bidder qualification and award criteria shall be specified 
clearly in the bidding documents;  
(iii) 
bidders shall be given adequate response time (minimum four weeks) to 
prepare and submit bids;  
(iv) 
bids shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder provided that this 
bidder is qualified;  
(v) 
eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, shall not be precluded from 
participating; and  
(vi) 
no preference margin shall be granted to domestic contractors. 
Page  14
13 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Consultants Qualifications 
(b)  Least Cost Selection  
(c)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d)  Single Source Selection subject to prior approval from the Association 
3. Training
.
Training shall be carried out on the basis of annual programs and 
budgets, which shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall, 
inter alia
,
identify: (a) particulars of the training envisaged; (b) the personnel to 
be trained; (c) the selection method of the institution or individuals conducting 
such training; (d) the institution conducting such training if identified; (e) the 
purpose and justification for such training; (f) the location and duration of the 
proposed training; and (g) the estimate of the cost of such training. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% (inclusive of 
Page  15
14 
 
Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures, consisting of works, goods and consultants 
services for the Project, as well as Training, audits and Operating Costs. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
Page  16
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2020 to and including 
June 15, 2030 
1% 
commencing December 15, 2030 to and including 
June 15, 2050 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  17
16 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“AMEXTIPE” means 
Agence Mauritanienne d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêt 
Public pour l’Emploi,
 an entity established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law no. 
64-098, dated June 9, 1964, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.  
5. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Recipient’s 
document entitled “
Programme de Developpement Urbain (PDU) 
–
Cellule de 
Coordination (CCP/PDU) -
 
Plan Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale 
(PCGES) Rapport Provisoire
”, dated May 2010, detailing: (a) the measures to be 
taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or 
offset adverse environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable 
levels, and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures, including 
monitoring and institution strengthening. 
6. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the Recipient’s document 
prepared and disclosed in accordance with the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework with respect to an activity under the Project, that 
details: (i) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of 
such activity to eliminate or offset adverse environmental or social impacts, or to 
reduce them to acceptable levels, and (ii) the actions needed to implement these 
measures. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
Page  18
17 
 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
8. 
“Main Cities” means collectively the following cities on the Recipient’s territory: 
Akjoujt, Aleg, Atar, Kaédi, Kiffa, Nouadhibou, Rosso, Sélibaby, and Tidikja; and 
“Main City” means one of such Main Cities as the context shall require. 
9. 
“MDOD Agreement” means an agreement (
convention de maîtrise d’ouvrage 
déléguée
)
referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
10. 
“Municipal Contract” means an agreement referred to in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
11. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating expenses, based on annual 
budgets approved by the Association, incurred by the PCU, on account of the 
Project as operation and maintenance costs of office, vehicles and office 
equipment; water and electricity utilities, telephone, office supplies, bank 
charges, additional staff costs, travel and supervision costs, 
per diem
,
but 
excluding the salaries and indemnities of officials and public servants of the 
Recipient’s civil service.  
12. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for an 
Urban Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
October 31, 2001 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 3574). 
13. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
14. 
“Ouguiya” means the currency having legal tender on the Recipient’s territory. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006 and May 2010. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 18, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
17. 
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the Project coordination unit 
formally established and operating in the Recipient’s ministry responsible for 
economic affairs and development pursuant to Recipient’s decision (
arrêté
)
No. 
R
403/MAED of May 14, 2001, and transferred under the authority of the 
Recipient’s ministry responsible for economy pursuant to Recipient’s Decree No. 
184-2008/PM of October 19, 2008.  
Page  19
18 
 
18. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Recipient’s manual referred to in 
the Original Financing Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the approval of the Association. 
19. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Recipient’s document prepared and 
disclosed in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework with respect to 
an activity under the Project, which, 
inter alia
,
(i) contains a census survey of 
Displaced Persons and valuation of assets, (ii) describes compensation and other 
resettlement assistance to be provided, consultation to be conducted with 
Displaced Persons about acceptable alternatives, institutional responsibilities for 
the implementation and procedures for grievance redress, and arrangements for 
monitoring and evaluation, and (iii) contains a timetable and budget for the 
implementation of such measures.  
20. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Recipient’s document entitled 
“
Programme de Developpement Urbain (PDU) 
–
Cellule de Coordination 
(CCP/PDU) – Cadre de Politique de Réinstallation – Rapport Provisoire
”
dated 
May 2010, containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications 
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to 
Displaced Persons, as amended from time to time with the prior written consent 
of the Association. 
21. 
“Safeguard Documents” means collectively the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, as well as the 
Environmental and Social Management Plans and the Resettlement Action Plans 
prepared for specific activities carried out under the Project, if any. 
22. 
“Training” means the cost of training under the Project, based on annual budgets 
approved by the Association pursuant to Section III.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, including costs associated with seminars, workshops, conference and 
study tours, travel and subsistence costs for training participants, services of 
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training 
materials and other activities directly related to course preparation and 
implementation. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
Page  20
19 
 
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of 
financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation 
or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity 
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection 
with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”
 
Page  21
20 
 
Section III.   
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn 13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
Page  22
21 
 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.
”
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.”
 
