Report No. PID9240
Project Name                     Kosovo-Pilot Water Supply Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       KVPE70365
Borrower(s)                      UNMIK
Implementing Agency
Address UNMIK
EU Pillar for Economic Reconstruction and
Development, Public Utilities
Department
Central Government Building, Pristina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Jo Hanns Dieter Trutschler
Tel: +381 38 500 223, ext. 5640
Email: tau_jt@yahoo.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 25, 2000
Projected Board Date             Project to be approved by the RVP.   Expected
date: November 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues. The most critical issues facing UNMIK in the urban
water sector include:System neglect, both over the last years and
exacerbated since the conflict, and damage from the conflict itself, have
left water supply infrastructure incapable of meeting existing
demand.Water companies suffer from weak management capacity and
inefficient operation, largely as a result of (a) the exodus of
management, which since 1989 has been dominated by ethnic Serbs; (b) the
economic recession since 1989; and (c) the legacy of a centrally planned
economy which provided little incentive for efficient delivery of public
services to consumers.The need to develop water resources management
policies, including water allocation mechanisms.Government Strategy. Given
the post-conflict situation and the initial focus, by both UNMIK and the
donor community, on addressing the most critical urgent needs of the
population, a comprehensive sector strategy is only now being
developed.UNMIK's approach, which the Bank strongly supports, has been to
establish a sector-wide donor coordination group, comprising the donor
community and local stakeholders, to formulate and implement a sector
reform strategy. The overarching guidelines within which the water sector
reform is being developed, and of which this project is designed to be a
part, include:For the Urgent- and Near-term:Urgent works for the
restoration of service levels to pre-conflict conditionsObtaining and
directing external funds in a coordinated fashion to ensure effective
donor coordination to take advantage of donor comparative advantagesFor
the Medium- and Long-term:Development of appropriate regulatory and legal
frameworks and institutionsEnsuring sustainability through improved cost
recovery and enhanced management and efficiency



2. Objectives
The overall objective of the Project is to assist the recipient to test
the reform of the water sector in the GjakovS (Dakovica)-Rahovec
(Orahovac) area (the "Project area"). The Project development objective
will be achieved through (a) the sustainable and efficient provision of
water supply services in the Project area; (b) supporting urgent repairs
to infrastructure; (c) the demonstration of the viability of private
sector participation in the provision of water supply services; and (d)
the development of a model for integrated water resources management in
the Project area.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is uniquely positioned to add value in supporting the project and
the broader aspects of sectoral reform which are ongoing. Specifically,
the Bank's brings to the table:broad international experience, both in
private sector participation in the water and sanitation sector and in the
design of development projects in post-conflict areas;the relationships to
mobilize other sources of funds for donor cooperation;policy development
expertise and experience in the design of institutional regimes for water
resources management; andthe Bank's extensive experience in development of
sustainable mechanisms for water resources management.
4. Description
The total project costs will be approximately US$ 5.92 million, including
US$ 1.32 million in financing from KFW, already under implementation. The
Project components are summarized below.
The Urban Water Supply Improvement Component will aim to improve the
quality and efficiency of water supply provision in the Project area.
There are three sub-components:
The Urgent Infrastructure Repairs Sub-Component will finance works and
goods to resolve urgent system repairs needed as a result of damage from
the conflict and lack of maintenance. Cofinancing from KfW (already under
implementation) will assist in the identification of needs and in the
completion of the urgent rehabilitation works during this first phase of
Project implementation.
The Management Improvement Sub-Component will finance a management
contract with a private operator and consultant services to improve water
service efficiency in the Project area. An internationally experienced
water operator will be contracted to be responsible for all aspects of
operational and financial management of the newly combined water supply
company. A performance-based management contract for a period of 2 years
will be internationally procured through a competitive bidding process,
with prequalification. Physical targets for investment, including the
establishment of a financial management system will be incorporated into
the management contract and will serve to measure the performance of the
operator during the first year of this contract.
The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Fund Sub-Component will provide
investment funds to finance works, goods and services for infrastructure
improvements in the second phase of Project implementation. The operator
of the management contract will be responsible for directing component
investment, and will develop semiannual budgets / workplans and revised
investment plans for rehabilitation and improved operation.
-2 -



The Integrated Water Resources Management Component will finance
consultant services, training and study tours to develop a framework for
integrated water resources management for the Project area, focused
primarily on the issue of allocation of water between water supply and
irrigation users. Possible mechanisms to be studied, and for which
proposals should be prepared, include an irrigation water users
association, a water resource management entity responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the Radoniqui dam and market-based water
allocation instruments, including tradable water rights.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                               0
IBRD
IDA
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU           1.32
SPECIAL FINANCING                        4.6
Total Project Cost                       5.92
6. Implementation
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of 3 years, with a
closing date of January 15, 2004. The Public Utility Department of UNMIK'
s Pillar IV, Economic Reconstruction and Development, will have overall
responsibility for project implementation, under the monitoring of the
Central Procurement Entity (CPE) and the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA).
CFA will be responsible for the financial management aspects of the Grant
administration, reporting to PUD. This includes: (i) opening of a Special
Account as a sub-account to their existing commercial bank account; (ii)
replenishment of the Special Account using their financial accounting
system; (iii) preparation of the required Bank reports; and (iv) auditing
of the Grant funds on an annual basis. The CFA will be appointing the
European Court of Auditors to undertake an audit of the entire Kosovo
budget. It is acceptable to the Bank to have an opinion on the project
and Company' accounts as a part of the overall audit (initial Company
accounts will be prepared during the first months of Project
implementation by an independent accounting firm financed under the
Grant). Traditional disbursement procedures will be utilized. Once
acceptable PMRs are produced, a move to PMR-based disbursements could be
considered. Implementation arrangements for the different components are
as follows:Component 1: Urban Water Supply Improvement ComponentUNMIK will
enter into a performance-based contract for management services for the
Management Improvement Sub-Component. A semi-annual independent review
financed by the project will take place to review the operator's
activities and to monitor compliance with technical and management
performance targets outlined in the contract. Technical specifications and
bidding package for the management contract will be completed during the
initial phase of project implementation. The private sector operator will
have responsibility, on behalf of UNMIK, for managing the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Sub-Component. This will involve responsibility for all
procurement of goods, works, and services and for technical assessment of
rehabilitation works to be completed (contracts will be signed by PUD). A
tentative investment plan was identified during preparation. Using this
plan as guidance, the operator will prepare semi-annual investment plans
to be financed under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Sub-Component upon
approval by UNMIK and the Bank. Procurement and financial management will
-3 -



be managed by Pillar IV with support from the CPE and CFA in the first
phase of implementation (during which only 2 or 3 contracts for urgent
repairs and the management contract will be signed under this component).
In the first six months of the management contract, the private operator
will be responsible for establishing a financial management system and
developing the procurement capacity of the Company, and will subsequently
assume responsibility on behalf of UNMIK for procurement and financial
management during the remainder of the project.Component 2: Integrated
Water Resources Management ComponentUNMIK will be responsible for
contracting technical assistance to undertake the preparation of studies
and develop workplans for the implementation of an integrated water
resources management strategy for the project area.
7. Sustainability
As one of its main objectives, the Project aims to increase the
sustainability of urban water supply. Involvement of the private sector
and the associated improvements in financial and operational management
will be key tools to ensure sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and
implementation of water resources management and urban water supply
projects throughout the world, and specifically borrows on the lessons
learned from the design and implementation of projects involving
management contracts for water supply and from the Bank's participation in
emergency projects in post-conflict areas, particularly in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Some of the critical lessons learned and applied in this
Project's preparation include:the complexities involved in operating in
post-conflict areas and the need for simplicity in project design;the
difficulties involved in the use of local contractors who are often
unaccustomed to competitive bidding processes;the difficulties which arise
from project operations in areas with mines and unexploded ordinance;the
need for the authority of the operator in all aspects of company
management;the importance of integrating project activities within a
broader context of sectoral reform, with a focus on regulatory and legal
issues;the need for full cooperation of stakeholders, including company
management, government, and consumers; andthe need for effective
coordination with other donors working in the sector.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no significant environmental issues in
the Project area as the works undertaken will be limited to repair of
existing infrastructure.    An Environmental Management Plan has been
prepared to mitigate and prevent any possible issues in this respect.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Manuel G. Marino
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-6692
-4-



Fax: 202-477-1386
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



