Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21531-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (SERBIA AND
MONTENEGRO) (KOSOVO)
FOR A
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
December 21, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Deutsche Mark (DM)
DM 0.43 = US$1
US$1 = DM 2.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CPE - Central Procurement Entity
CFA - Central Fiscal Authority
EMP - Environmental Management Plan
GTZ - Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
KfW - Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau
KCB - Kosovo Consolidated Budget
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
PSP - Private Sector Participation
PUD - Public Utilities Department
SDC - Swiss Development Corporation
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
STA - Single Treasury Account
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager    Walter Stottmann, ECSIN
Sector Director:    Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Manuel Marifio, ECSIN



KOSOVO
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        5
3. Benefits and target population                                                       6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         10
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            10
2. Financial                                                                           10
3. Technical                                                                           11
4. Institutional                                                                       11
5. Environmental                                                                       12
6. Social                                                                              13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      16
2. Critical risks                                                                      17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      18



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              19
2. Other                                                                                19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            19
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           25
Annex 4: Not Applicable                                                                   26
Annex 5: Not Applicable                                                                    27
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        28
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      38
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    39
Annex 9: Not Applicable                                                                   40
Annex 10: Not Applicable                                                                  41
Annex 11: Tentative Investmnent Plan                                                       42
Annex 12: Management Contract                                                             49



KOSOVO
Pilot Water Supply Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: December 21, 2000                            Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman   Sector Manager/Director: Walter A. Stottmann
Project ID: P070365                                Sector(s): WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)   Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ 1 Loan    [1 ] Credit    [Xp  Grant   [ I Guarantee     [ I Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 4.60
~Fi`nancin-gPlan:  Sour                                          .oa
BORROWER                                                        0.00            0.00          0.00
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                  0.00            1.32          1.32
SPECIAL FINANCING                                               0.00            4.60          4.60
Total:                                                          0.00            5.92 X        5.92
Borrower: UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION
Responsible agency: UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION
EU Pillar for Economic Reconstruction and Development, Public Utilities Department
Address: Central Government Building, Pristina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Jo Hanns Dieter Trutschler
Tel: +381 38 500 223, ext. 5640              Fax:                  Email: taujt@yahoo.com
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
_                 2001j200Zi   -.I-_
Annual  2.20          2.10   |  1.60 | .
Cumulative    2.20        4.30 l     5.90
Project implementation period: 3 years
Note: All references to "Borrower" and "Loan" throughout this document should be understood to refer to "Grant
Recipient" and "Grant" respectively.
wC PA FP, m



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the Project is to assist the recipient to test the reform of the water sector
in the Gjakove (Dakovica)-Rahovec (Orahovac) area (the "Project area"). The Project
development objective will be achieved through (a) the sustainable and efficient provision of water
supply services in the Project area; (b) supporting urgent repairs to infrastructure; (c) the
demonstration of the viability of private sector participation in the provision of water supply
services; and (d) the development of a model for integrated water resources management in the
Project area.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key Project performnance indicators include: (a) consumers metered; (b) collection ratios; (c)
installation of a computer-based cadastre and a financial management system; (d) reception by
United Nations Interim Administration of bids for the management contract; and (e) a proposal
for establishment of users associations and mechanisms for water resources allocation in the
Project area developed by 6/15/2002.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: n/a      Date of latest CAS discussion:
The Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (R99-178) identifies four priority challenges:
meeting near-term needs, putting in place effective public institutions and policies, repairing the
damage of conflict, and restarting economic activity and beginning transition. Through both the
Project and the role which the Bank is playing in the development of a strategy for sector
development, the Bank's efforts are focused on addressing both the near-term needs and the
medium-term sustainability issues which face the water sector.
Meeting near-term needs and repairing the damage of conflict. The Project area is one of the most
severely damaged areas of Kosovo. Initial estimates of the damage to the city of Gjakove
(Dakovica) include the destruction of nearly 75% of the commercial and residential buildings. Due
to both damage to the Radoniqi water supply system during the conflict, and, more importantly,
to the lack of regular maintenance of the network for nearly a full year, there are immediate needs
for the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure that the Project will help address. This might
include clearance of mines in the adjacent areas.
Puttingin place effective public institutions and policies. Hidrosistemi Radoniqi operates a
complex system that includes the Radoniqi reservoir and water treatment plant, distribution of
water to the city of Gjakove (Dakovica) and to several villages of this municipality, bulk water
supply to Rahovec (Orahovac) and Lumbardhy (in Prizren, to the South), and an irrigation district
with roughly 10,000 ha under cultivation. The company suffers from weak management, low
-2 -



operating efficiency, and a deficient regulatory and institutional framework, with no existing
mechanisms for water resources management. The project will support the establishment of a
financially sustainable model of service provision, including the involvement of the private sector,
and the development of the critical policies and institutional framework for sector reform,
particularly with regards to water resources management.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues. The most critical issues facing United Nations Interim Administration in the
urban water sector include:
* System neglect, both over the last years and exacerbated since the conflict, and damage from
the conflict itself, have left water supply infrastructure incapable of meeting existing demand.
*  Water companies suffer from weak management capacity and inefficient operation, largely as
a result of (a) the exodus of management, which since 1989 has been dominated by ethnic
Serbs; (b) the economic recession since 1989; and (c) the legacy of a centrally planned
economy which provided little incentive for efficient delivery of public services to consumers.
= The need to develop water resources management policies, including water allocation
mechanisms.
Government Strategy. Given the post-conflict situation and the initial focus, by both United
Nations Interim Administration and the donor community, on addressing the most critical urgent
needs of the population, a comprehensive sector strategy is only now being developed.
United Nations Interim Administration's approach, which the Bank strongly supports, has been to
establish a sector-wide donor coordination group, comprising the donor community and local
stakeholders, to formulate and implement a sector reform strategy. The overarching guidelines
within which the water sector reform is being developed, and of which this project is designed to
be a part, include:
For the Urgent- and Near-term:
* Urgent works for the restoration of service levels to pre-conflict conditions.
* Obtaining and directing external funds in a coordinated fashion to ensure effective donor
coordination to take advantage of donor comparative advantages.
For the Medium- and Long-term:
* Development of appropriate regulatory and legal frameworks and institutions.
* Enstring sustainability through improved cost recovery and enhanced management and
efficiency.
-3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses both the near-term immediate needs and longer-term structural issues which
have been identified as critical to the reform of the sector. While the project is focused on the
rehabilitation and management of the water supply system in the area, activities implemented
within the Project form an integral piece of United Nations Interim Administration's overarching
sector reform strategy in coordination with other donors. Priority sector issues to be addressed by
the Project include:
Urgent- and Near-term
* urgent repairs required to address high physical losses and low service quality;
Medium- and Long-term
* weak management, which has led to inefficient operation and maintenance, low cost recovery,
and lack of demand management strategies;
*  rehabilitation of the water supply system to restore service conditions; and
* the need for effective water resources allocation.
The key strategic choices made during project preparation were (a) to pilot the involvement of a
private operator in the management of the water supply company; (b) to select Project area; and
(c) to focus on urban water supply issues.
The project seeks to address management strengthening through the involvement of a private
operator under a management contract with performance based incentives. This will allow the
piloting of private sector participation in the delivery of water services in Kosovo in a gradual
manner, consistent with the development of the sector's regulatory framework (see Annex 12 for
details on the management contract).
The Project area water supply system, including the dam and treatment facility, is part of a
complex water resources management system, serving different users and representative of the
allocation issues faced in other areas of Kosovo. The company in charge of this system
(Hidrosistemi Radoniqi) has had a relative continuity of local management staff since the early
1980s. This continuity of management makes it the best candidate in Kosovo for piloting the
involvement of the private sector in the delivery of water supply, a key component of United
Nations Interim Administration's strategy for sector development. In the opinion of both the team
and United Nations Interim Administration, no other potential project area would reap the
immediate benefits of private sector participation as would the Project area.
Because of the Bank's ongoing operation in the rural sector through the Community Development
Fund, the project focuses on improving service quality for the urban areas of the Project area. By
focusin-g on urban water supply, the project effectively complements the CDF's efforts in rural
areas and does not present a competing financing window for village level water supply systems.
The Bank's Project would build on the work by KfW in addressing some of the area's most urgent
needs and would also complement the work other donors, particularly GTZ, are carrying out to
develop the sector institutipnal and regulatory framework.
-4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The total project costs will be approximately US$ 5.92 million, including US$ 1.32 million in
financing from KFW, already under implementation. The Project components are summarized
below.
1. Urban Water Supply Imnprovement                    0.00       0.0      0.000.S
Component
a. Urgent Infrastructure Repairs  Other Water         2.17      36.7       0.85      18.5
Supply &
Sanitation
b. Management hnprovement         Other Water         2.00       33.8      2.00      43.5
Supply &
Sanitation
c. Infrastructure Rehabilitation  Other Water         1.45      24.5       1.45      31.5
Supply &
Sanitation
2. Integrated Water Resources     Other Water         0.30        5.1      0.30       6.5
Management Component              Supply &
Sanitation
Total Project Costs                   5.92      100.0      4.60     100.0
Total Financing Required                    5.92     100.0      4.60      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project seeks to support the implementation of several policy reforms, both during Project
preparation and during implementation.
During Project preparation, the Bank, in coordination with other donors, under the overall
leadership of GTZ, has supported United Nations Interim Administration to (a) initiate the overall
sector reform program through the rationalization of water supply services in the Project area,
which includes the combination of two previously independent water supply companies in
Gjakove (Dakovica) and Rahovec (Orahovac), and the separation of the irrigation service; (b)
clarify the legal status of the water companies and the irrigation service provider; (c) establish the
statutes and appoint a Supervisory Board for the newly combined water supply company; (d)
develop municipal water service standards; and (e) prepare a Service Agreement which defines
the responsibilities and rights of the company and frame those of the private operator.
As a result of these activities, a Regulation on the Establishment of the Administrative
Department of Public Utilities has been issued, establishing its responsibilities and functions, as,
-5 -



well as a Policy Position Paper that addresses the ownership, legal status and regulatory issues of
the water utilities. A Service Agreement has also been prepared for the "Gjakove-Rahovec Water
Company" (the Company).
During implementation, the Project will directly support private sector participation in the water
sector through the signing of a management contract with an international private sector operator.
In addition to the policy and institutional reforms in the Project area, and linked to them, the Bank
will continue to participate in the Donor Coordination Group to develop the parallel sector-wide
reform efforts which are also underway. In this respect, the Project will also provide technical
assistance for the development of a modem, integrated water resources management framework
in the Project area. Studies to be financed will identify and evaluate the establishment of an
irrigation water users association, creating a water resources management entity responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the Radoniqi Dam, and developing the mechanisms for overall
water resources allocation.
3. Benefits and target population:
Apart from the general benefits that will be derived from policy development and sector reform,
the Project will have a direct impact on the populations of Project area (total current population
approximately 200,000), as well as on users of bulk water provided by Hidrosistemi Radoniqi in
Metohija. Beneficiaries will include residential, commercial, agricultural, and industrial water
users. The key project benefits will be:
Restoration of water supply service quality. It will include replacement and repair of
destroyed/damaged sections of the water supply network and urgent repairs to the water
treatment facilities. Significant improvements in both the quantity and quality of water available
will be achieved, primarily through loss control, repairs to the treatment plant and increased
efficiency in the network operation.
Improved service efficiency and sustainability. The Project will achieve greater operational
efficiency, financial sustainability and local capacity building, by bringing in internationally
experienced management from the private sector. Hidrosistemi Radoniqi is a unique case in
Kosovo as it has enjoyed some local management continuity in the context of both the political
and economic changes since 1989 and changes since the conflict. There is considerable
opportunity to build upon existing technical and management capacity through the technical
assistance provided by the international managers and technical specialists.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of 3 years, with a closing date of January
15, 20a4. The Public Utility Department of United Nations Interim Administration's Pillar IV,
Economic Reconstruction and Development, will have overall responsibility for project
implementation, under the monitoring of the Central Procurement Entity (CPE) and the Central
Fiscal Authority (CFA).
-6 -



According to the structure of United Nations Interim Administration, only CFA, which acts as the
Ministry of Finance, has the authority to open bank accounts, conduct and monitor financial
transactions, including the appointment of an independent auditor, and to establish the regulatory
framework for procurement and payments transactions. Therefore, CFA will be responsible for
the financial management aspects of the Grant administration, reporting to PUD. This includes:
(i) opening of a Special Account as a sub-account to their existing commercial bank account; (ii)
replenishment of the Special Account using their financial accounting system; (iii) preparation of
the required Bank reports; and (iv) auditing of the Grant funds on an annual basis. An assessment
of the financial management capacity of the CFA has been conducted. It was concluded that the
existing system meets the minimum criteria for proper Grant administration and reporting. The
system will be programmed so that it is able to produce Project Management Reports (PMR)
from the start of operations (full PMRs of acceptable quality are expected to be produced by
September, 2001). The CFA will be appointing the European Court of Auditors to undertake an
audit of the entire Kosovo budget. It is acceptable to the Bank to have an opinion on the project
and Company' accounts as a part of the overall audit (initial Company accounts will be prepared
during the first months of Project implementation by an independent accounting firm financed
under the Grant). Traditional disbursement procedures will be utilized. Once acceptable PMRs are
produced, a move to PMR-based disbursements could be considered. More details are provided
in Annex 6. Implementation arrangements for the different components are as follows:
Component 1: Urban Water Supy Improvement Component
United Nations Interim Administration will enter into a performance-based contract for
management services for the Management Improvement Sub-Component. A  semi-annual
independent review financed by the project will take place to review the operator's activities and
to monitor compliance with technical and management performance targets outlined in the
contract. Technical specifications and bidding package for the management contract will be
completed during the initial phase of project implementation.
The private sector operator will have responsibility, on behalf of United Nations Interim
Administration, for managing the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Sub-Component. This will involve
responsibility for all procurement of goods, works, and services and for technical assessment of
rehabilitation works to be completed (contracts will be signed by PUD). Annex 11 includes a
tentative investment plan identified during preparation. Using this plan as guidance, the operator
will prepare semi-annual investment plans to be financed under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Sub-Component upon approval by United Nations Interim Administration and the Bank.
Procurement and financial management will be managed by Pillar IV with support from the CPE
and CFA in the first phase of implementation (during which only 2 or 3 contracts for urgent
repairs and the management contract will be signed under this component). In the first six months
of the management contract, the private operator will be responsible for establishing a financial
management system and developing the procurement capacity of the Company, and will
subsequently assume responsibility on behalf of United Nations Interim Administration for
procurement and financial management during the remainder of the project.
-7 -



Component 2: Integrated Water Resources Management Component
United Nations Interim Administration will be responsible for contracting technical assistance to
undertake the preparation of studies and develop workplans for the implementation of an
integrated water resources management strategy for the project area. Terms of Reference will be
completed during appraisal.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A number of design alternatives were considered during Project preparation. These include:
A Technical Assistance Project. One option considered was to provide a grant for the contracting
of technical assistance to develop stronger management capacity within Hidrosistemi Radoniqi
without entering into a performance-based management contract. Not unlike a management
contract, consultants would be responsible for staff training and in the development of modern
systems for company and water resources management, but would not have overall responsibility
for the success or failure of the company. It was decided that demonstrating the viability of
private sector participation is critical to the success of the sector reform in the medium term and
that given the willingness of company management to work with the operator, the risks were
relatively small compared to the potential benefits to the company and to consumers.
A Fund for Urgent Rehabilitation Needs. The team considered the preparation of a quick
disbursing fund for water sector reconstruction, with specific investments determined during
Project preparation and undertaken through competitive bidding. While such an option would
prove relatively easy to prepare and supervise, it clearly did not provide the opportunity to
leverage the value-added that could be captured from involving the private sector and in pursuing
a sustainable management strategy. Instead, a phased approach has been adopted, with
investments for the first stage of Project implementation identified during preparation and funds
for rehabilitation, to be managed by the private operator, during the second phase, within the
scope of works agreed upon during preparation (see Annex 11 for the indicative investment plan).
Such an approach allows for the linkage of investment with other aspects of sector reform in the
area, including the establishment of tariffs based on willingness to pay, cost recovery objectives,
and demand management strategies, and, critically, takes advantage of the private operator's
comparative advantage and capacity to select investments.
- 8-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Community Development Fund      S             S
Other development agencies
GTZ - Technical Assistance
Program
KfW - Gjakove Water Project
European Agency for
Reconstruction - Project under
preparation
SDC - Project under
preparation
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and implementation of water
resources management and urban water supply projects throughout the world, and specifically
borrows on the lessons learned from the design and implementation of projects involving
management contracts for water supply and from the Bank's participation in emergency projects
in post-conflict areas, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Some of the critical lessons learned and applied in this Project's preparation include:
* the complexities involved in operating in post-conflict areas and the need for simplicity in
project design;
* the difficulties involved in the use of local contractors who are often unaccustomed to
competitive bidding processes;
* the difficulties which arise from project operations in areas with mines and unexploded
ordinance;
* the-need for the authority of the operator in all aspects of company management;
*  the importance of integrating project activities within a broader context of sectoral reform,
with a focus on regulatory and legal issues;
* the need for full cooperation of stakeholders, including company management, government,
and consumers; and
* the need for effective coordination with other donors working in the sector.
-9-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
United Nations Interim Administration has formally requested the active participation of the
donor community in the overall sectoral discussions, and has specifically requested that the Bank
be responsible for Project area water issues. United Nations Interim Administration has convened
the first two sector-wide donor meetings to address sector reform and legal/institutional policy for
the water sector. The meetings strongly endorsed the approach taken by the Bank and
cofinancing was confirmed with KfW. In addition, extensive discussions were held with local
stakeholders at the municipal and regional administrative levels. In these meetings the proposed
Project concept, including the involvement of a private operator under a management contract
type of arrangement, was met with strong support.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is uniquely positioned to add value in supporting the project and the broader aspects of
sectoral reform which are ongoing. Specifically, the Bank brings to the table:
e broad international experience, both in private sector participation in the water and sanitation
sector and in the design of development projects in post-conflict areas;
3 the relationships to mobilize other sources of funds for donor cooperation;
3 policy development expertise and experience in the design of institutional regimes for water
resources management; and
v the Bank's extensive experience in development of sustainable mechanisms for water
resources management.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the post-conflict reconstruction and institutional reform nature of the project, the project
economic analysis has focused on use of least cost analysis, and no project internal rate of return
(IRR) will be calculated. It is expected that the project will have significant economic benefits
based on the situation on the ground and experience with similar projects in other countries.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The present financial situation of Hidrosistemi Radoniqi and the Rahovec (Orahovac) municipal
water company is unclear given the lack of an appropriate financial management system and
scarce and unreliable financial data. Recent available data indicate that collection rates are very
low, at approximately 20%, cost recovery is insufficient to meet operating expenses, despite the
minimal levels of maintenance and operation of infrastructure, and both companies are reliant
- 10-



upon United Nations Interim Administration subsidies for staff salaries. The Project aims to
establish sustainable financial management of Hidrosistemi Radoniqi with clear goals for cost
recovery in a regulated environment.
Fiscal Impact:
As a grant, the Project will have no direct fiscal impact on the United Nations Interim
Administration Kosovo budget. In the longer run, the establishment of a financially viable water
supply utility will have a positive fiscal impact, relieving United Nations Interim Administration of
its current responsibility for paying subsidies to the water company's staff for salaries.
3. Technical:
A detailed assessment of technical inputs, together with the identification of the investment plan
for the urgent repairs under the Urgent Infrastructure Repairs Sub-Component were determined
during preparation (see Annex 11). Annex 11 also includes a tentative investment plan to be
financed under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Sub-Component. The technical capacity of the
private operator that will manage the water company will reduce the technical risks of the project.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Overall executing responsibility for this project will be at the Public Utility Department of United
Nations Interim Administration's Pillar IV, Economic Reconstruction and Development. With
support from CFA, CPE and the private operator, it has sufficient capacity to execute the project
and there are no issues that require special attention in this respect.
4.2 Project management:
Project management for Component 1 will be done by the private operator in charge of managing
the water company under the supervision of United Nations Interim Administration and the
Supervisory Board to be appointed (which will be supported through technical assistance). The
Public Utility Department of United Nations Interim Administration's Pillar IV, Economic
Reconstruction and Development, will be responsible for the management of Component 2. Both
PUD and the private operator are expected to have sufficient capacity for the tasks involved.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement of studies and the management contract will be responsibility of the Public Utility
Department of United Nations Interim Administration's Pillar IV, Economic Reconstruction and
Development. Since the experience with Bank procurement practices is limited, it is proposed to
provide assistance to the Public Utility Department for the preparation of bidding documents and
rely on the CPE for tendering and evaluation processes. Procurement for the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Sub-Component will be carried out by the private operator as part of its normal
management tasks, under the supervision of CPE for the Bank financed part of this component
(contracts will be signed by PUD). KfW will use their procurement procedures for the parts they
finance. The management contract will be financed under International Competitive Bidding
- 11 -



(ICB) procedures, with prequalification. It is proposed that most procurement of works be done
under National Competitive Bidding (NCB), with a threshold of US$ 200,000. Procurement of
goods will be mainly done through International Shopping procedures with a threshold of US$
100,000 and National Shopping procedures with a threshold of US$ 50,000.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management capacity assessment has been conducted by a certified Financial
Management Specialist, who concluded that the current system in United Nations Interim
Administration's CFA for operating the consolidated Kosovar budget satisfies the minimum
requirements of the Bank. The project funds will flow through the CFA single treasury system,
which will be responsible for maintaining the Special Account and requesting replenishments. To
avoid risks, the project will be structured in contracts that will be processed by the CFA through
direct transfers into the account of the suppliers.
The Project will include a two-stage approach to financial management. During the first 6 months
of the Project, United Nations Interim Administration's Public Utilities Department, with the
support of CFA, will be responsible for the Project's financial management. An analysis of the
financial management capacity of the water supply company under the management of the private
operator will be undertaken by a certified financial management specialist during Project
supervision, and following the establishment by the private operator of financial management
systems acceptable to the Bank and United Nations Interim Administration, the operator will
assume financial management responsibility for the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Sub-Component
under the supervision of CPE.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging fiom this analysis.
There are no significant environmental issues in the Project area as the works undertaken will be
limited to repair of existing infrastructure.   An Environmental Management Plan has been
prepared to mitigate and prevent any possible issues in this respect.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared and addresses, for the construction and
operation phases, material supply and transport, site management, maintenance and rehabilitation
of dam, intake, and reservoir, use of fuel, material disposal, noise, traffic management, and
hazardous materials. A monitoring plan and an institutional strengthening plan to enable its
implementation have also been prepared as part of the EMP.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
- 12 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
An environmental health assessment will be undertaken prior to the establishment of the
management contract and will serve as a baseline for measuring the environmental impacts of the
project. The EMP includes a monitoring plan.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Project Area Social Analysis. The project aims to establish a more effective, efficient management
structure, which will ensure that water users obtain better, more reliable service. As such, it is
expected to benefit water users directly and concretely. Tariff increases will be associated with
visible improvements in areas that currently receive inadequate or intermittent service, based on
empirical studies of willingness and ability to pay, and accompanied by public information
campaigns to inform users of the rational for increases, changes in collection methods, as well as
service improvement targets. Nevertheless, two social issues have received attention.
First, access to water is inequitable. Some areas receive service and others, particularly those in
higher altitudes such as in Rahovec (Orahovac) currently receive water erratically and the length
of down periods appears to be increasing. The shortages are location specific, generally related to
topology, but the predominantly Serbian and Roma enclave in Rahovec (Orahovac) also suffers
from arbitrary closing of valves that serve their enclave. United Nations Interim Administration
has set up temporary water supplies replenished by tankers, but the arrangement is unsatisfactory.
Site visits have confirmed that this inequitable access is a source of tension between the
communities, but not a major cause of conflict. Rather, it is a manifestation of broader
inter-ethnic conflict. Although the new management structure expected to impose greater
discipline among employees of the water companies, thereby eliminating the clandestine valve
closing, more proactive efforts are also required to improve access to information about the water
system and to reduce the suspicion that develops in the absence of good information. The project
will thus establish a Consumer Panel to enable representatives of different groups to serve as a
liaison between their groups and management of the water company, both to voice concerns and
to transmit information.
Second, one source of inequity is the use of drinking water for irrigation. Engineers at
Hidrosistemi Radoniqi claim that a major cause of shortages in the system is the use of drinking
water for irrigation in at least two major parts of the system, thus this use must be curtailed to
ensure that everyone is served. During preparation, a rapid social assessment (RAS) was
completed in two parts of the drinking water system that were identified as having high levels of
misuse. The objective of the exercise was to understand patterns of water access and use and to
ascertaiv the extent to which curtailing the use of drinking water for irrigation in the "problem"
areas would adversely affect the incomes of water using households. The team concluded that the
areas in question appear to have suffered significant shortages during the summer of 2000 and,
contrary to the claim of Radoiniqi management, may have used less water than in previous years.
Nonetheless, curtailing irrigation use is not expected to adversely affect the incomes of water
- 13-



users, so it is encouraged.
The RAS documented a high level of dissatisfaction with management of the drinking water
system, especially during the summer time, when most users suffer from period and uncertain
shortages. The lack of management control during the summer of 2000 appears to have led to
more widespread misuse, but other factors, primarily related to construction and reconstruction,
also changed water use pattems. Concem about well quality limited access to a normal coping
pattern. The RAS concluded that the water company needs to establish much better public
information practices and a clearer customer orientation.
In addition, two studies will be carried out during the first year of project implementation. They
are to be undertaken during the first phase of Project implementation to ensure that the results are
current when external management prepares its investment and tariff program and to maximize
ownership of findings by management. The studies are the following:
Environmental Health Assessment. A baseline assessment of the environmental health situation in
the Project area is critical to evaluating the success of the Project and the impact of the
participation of the private sector in water supply management. A recent outbreak of Tularemia
in the project area highlights the need for an assessment of the environmental health situation.
PPIAF funds have been requested to contract experienced medical experts in undertaking surveys
in the project area to establish targets and indicators for evaluating the performance of the private
sector operator. The environmental health assessment will be undertaken in the initial months of
project implementation and will serve to guide the strategic investments of the operator during the
remainder of project implementation.
Willingness to Pay Assessment. An analysis of the ability and willingness of the local population
to pay for water supply will be key to design the development of an appropriate tariff regime and
further design of investment programs to be undertaken after the project. In the Project's initial
phase, an assessment of the socio-economic situation in the Project area will take place, linked to
PREM's ongoing Poverty Assessment.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Focus groups have been carried out with local consumers, representatives of Hidrosistemi
Radoniqi, United Nations Interim Administration, and civil society, which have shown initial
support to the project concept, including the proposed reorganization and merging of the
Rahovec and Radoniqi's water supply systems and the involvement of a private operator under a
management contract. During implementation, a Consumers Panel will be established that will
meet regularly to advise management on the needs and problems of consumers in different parts
of the system. This will include representatives of different ethnic groups to ensure that their
voices are heard directly. Discussions with private sector operators have also confirmed the
interest of the private sector in participating in the bidding process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Bank team has had extensive discussions with NGOs operating in the water sector in the
- 14 -



Project area. NGOs and civil society organizations have been invited to participate in ongoing
focus groups.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Consumers Panel will enable various consumer groups, especially ethnic groups and those
who currently utilize drinking water for irrigation, to interact directly with management to voice
their concerns, identify problems and to inform other users of the plans and activities of
Hidrosistemi Radoniqi. Minutes of the meetings of the Consumer Panel and Supervisory Board
will be made available to general public, as well as Bank supervision teams.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The activities of the Consumers Panel will be monitored to ascertain both the frequency of
meetings, the content of discussions, and management follow-up, based on minutes of the
meetings of the panel and discussions with management, members of the panel and their
constituents.
7. Safeguard Policies:
71 Do any of the follo   safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        * Yes O No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 430)                           0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           * Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment. An EMP was prepared and is included in the Project Implementation
Plan.
Safety of Dams. Because the project area relies upon the performance of the existing Radoniqi
Dam, the Safeguard Policy applies. An independent dam specialist has visited the dam site
(September 2000) to (a) inspect and evaluate the safety status of the existing dam and its
performance history and (b) review and evaluate existing operation and maintenance procedures.
His report, which includes recommendations for needed investment, has been evaluated and the
proposed investments included in the Project cost estimates.
Projects in International Waterways. Because the proposed project will include rehabilitation and
repair of the existing Project area water supply systems which rely upon the Lumebardhi i Decanit
(Decanska Bistrica) and Proni i Becit (Prue) rivers, and because these rivers connect with Beli
- 15 -



Project area. NGOs and civil society organizations have been invited to participate in ongoing
focus groups.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Consumers Panel will enable various consumer groups, especially ethnic groups and those
who currently utilize drinking water for irrigation, to interact directly with management to voice
their concerns, identify problems and to inform other users of the plans and activities of
Hidrosistemi Radoniqi. Minutes of the meetings of the Consumer Panel and Supervisory Board
will be made available to general public, as well as Bank supervision teams.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in terms of social development outcomes?
The activities of the Consumers Panel will be monitored to ascertain both the frequency of
meetings, the content of discussions, and management follow-up, based on minutes of the
meetings of the panel and discussions with management, members of the panel and their
constituents.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followine safe&d olicies a 1 to the roect?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 436)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 430)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             * Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment. An EMP was prepared and is included in the Project Implementation
Plan.
Safey of Dams. Because the project area relies upon the performance of the existing Radoniqi
Dam, the Safeguard Policy applies. An independent dam specialist has visited the dam site
(September 2000) to (a) inspect and evaluate the safety status of the existing dam and its
performance history and (b) review and evaluate existing operation and maintenance procedures.
His report, which includes recommendations for needed investment, has been evaluated and the
proposed investments included in the Project cost estimates.
Projects in International Waterways. Because the proposed project will include rehabilitation and
repair of the existing Project area water supply systems which rely upon the Lumebardhi i Decanit
(Decansl%a Bistrica) and Proni i Becit (Prue) rivers, and because tfese rivers connect with Beli
- 15 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colurnn of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability/problems arising from  H         Close consultation with United Nations Interim
transfer of power to local authorities                 Administration authorities will be assured
and/or United Nations Interim                          during project preparation and execution to
Administration delays in decision making.              address any problem that could result from this.
The Project team has conducted meetings with
focal groups in the Project area that assure that
information on the Project has been available to
local poltical leaders and confirmed the support
for the Project main concepts.
Model of private sector participation is     M         Bank taking key role in ongoing sectoral
not replicable to other parts of Kosovo                discussions for developing legal and regulatory
institutions.
Future municipal administrators unwilling    H         The project included extensive previous
to engage private sector in water sector               consultation with local stakeholders and leaders.
Additionally, it is expected that the private
operator will be able to address any concerns on
this matter.
Consumers unwilling/unable to pay for        H         The involvement of the private sector, with
water services                                        improved management, would result in better
service quality and more efficient commercial
practices. Repair investments will be grant
financed, thus there is no need to reflect them in
the tariffs.
Social unrest and ethnic tensions among     M          The project team and later the private operator
local communities in the Project area                  has and will work closely with the local
administrators and KFOR. A Supervisory
Board with representation from local authorities
and a Consumer Panel, with representation from
the different ethmic groups will be formed.
Private operators do not bid for the         N         Initial consultation has shown strong interest in
management contract                                    this management contract.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 17-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Involvement of the Private Sector. A key component of the project is the involvement of the
private sector in water supply, a first for Kosovo. Over the last 18 months there has been
experience with private sector participation in municipal service provision, but this has been
limited to the energy sector. Although the Project is a key component of United Nations Interim
Administration's strategy for involving the private sector in the operation of local services, and has
been developed to serve as a pilot for the water sector, this remains a controversial aspect of the
project which is expected to be resolved once the new authorities are in place.
Institutional Reform of the Water Sector in the Project Area. Critical to the design of the project
is institutional reform, including the combination of what are currently two independent municipal
water supply entities and the separation of Hidrosistemi Radoniqi's water supply and irrigation
departments. Although the institutional reforms that will take place through the Project are
consistent with United Nations Interim Administration's overarching strategy for institutional
reform in Kosovo (which includes reducing the number of water supply companies in Kosovo
from the current 27 to 8), are consistent with broad intemational experience in developing
sustainable institutional frameworks for water supply and irrigation, and have been met with
support from project stakeholders including the water companies, the changes might become
controversial.
- 18-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None
H. Readiness for Implementation
[l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Inplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Polijies regarding Projects in international waters (OP. 7.50, BP. 7.50, GP. 7.50) ave  tn plied with.
A Letter of Notification was sent to the Government of AlbmuW 
,>t Manuel G. Marino                    Walter A. Stottmann                Cistinfl J. POottall
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
-19 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Setrl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The Transition Support
Strategy for Kosovo (which
takes the place of a CAS)
identifies four priority
challenges: meeting
near-term needs, putting in
place effective public
institutions and policies,
repairing the damage of
conflict, and restarting
economic activity and
beginning transition.
Project Development      Outcome t Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
The overall objective of the Improved efficiency and    Financial management    Political and economic
Project is to help the   sustainability of the water  reports and service quality  stability.
recipient to test the reform  service             assessment
of the water sector in the                                                 Private sector involved
Project area             Improvements in health    Environmental Health   through a management
from reduction in        assessment prior to Project contract.
water-bome disease.      start and at closing.
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.1 Urgent repairs to water 1.1.1 Restoration of  Quarterly management
supply systems completed. damaged water supply    status reports and
network and treatment    independent audits
infrastructure to pre-war
condition
-20 -



1.2 Sustainable provision of 1.2.1. Consumers metered. Quarterly management    Cost recovery mechanisms
water supply to water users                    status reports and       provide financing for
in Gjakove and Rahovec   1.2.2. Collection ratios    independent audits  operation and maintenance
1.2.3. Computer-based
cadastre and financial
management system
operational
1.2.4. System
improvements completed
according to semi-annual
workplans
1.3 Viability of private  1.3.1. United Nations                         Confirmation of local
sector participabon in  Interim Administration                          interest in private sector
municipal service delivery  receives bids for                           participabon in water supply
in Kosovo demonstrated    management contract (Yes                      and sanitation
/ No)
2.1 Model and action plan  2.1.1. Procedures for water Quarterly reports
for integrated water    allocaton analyzed and
resources management    drafted
developed
2.1.2. Mechanisms for
O&M, management and
cost-sharing of shared
infrastructure developed
2.1.3. Users associations
by-laws drafted
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:   (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
1. Urban Water Supply
Improvement Component
Ia. Urgent Infrastructure   Urgent rehabilitation of    Quarterly reports
Repairs Sub-Component   existing water supply
network, and water
treatment facilities (US$
2.17 million)
- 21 -



lb. Management         Intemational selection for  Quarterly reports  Company remains willing to
Improvement            management contract,                           cooperate with Operator
Sub-Component          target date 6/1/2001 (US$
2.0 million)
1c. Infrastructure     Rehabilitation of existing   Management workplans for
Improvement Fund       water supply network, dam, infrastructure rehabilitation
and water treatment    submitted to the Bank
facilities (US$ 1.45 million)
2. Integrated Water    Technical assistance    Proposal for water user    Regulatory framework and
Resources Management   (US$ 0.3 million)       groups and inigation   legal institutions allow for
Component                                      association            implementation of
integrated water resources
management strategy
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.62 million
The Urban Water Supply Improvement Component will aim to improve the quality and efficiency
of water supply provision in the Project area. There are three sub-components:
*  The Urgent ifrastructure Re"airs Sub-Component (US$ 2.17 million) will finance works and
goods to resolve urgent system repairs needed as a result of damage from the conflict and lack
of maintenance.  Identification of urgent project investments was carried out during
preparation (see Annex 11). Such investments will be undertaken in the first phase of Project
implementation, expected to last approximately 6 months. Cofinancing from KfW (already
under implementation) will assist in the identification of needs and in the completion of the
urgent rehabilitation works during this first phase of Project implementation.
* The Management Improvement Sub-Component (US$ 2.0 million) will finance a management
contract with a private operator and consultant services to improve water service efficiency in
the Project area. An internationally experienced water operator will be contracted to be
responsible for all aspects of operational and financial management of the newly combined
water supply company. A performance-based management contract for a period of 2 years
will be internationally procured through a competitive bidding process, with prequalification,
to be begun following project Appraisal with the goal of finalizing the contract during the
initial phase of the project. Physical targets for investment, including the establishment of a
financial management system will be incorporated into the management contract and will serve
to measure the performance of the operator during the first year of this contract.
* The hifrastructure Rehabilitation Fund Sub-Component (US$ 1.45 million) will provide
investment funds to finance works, goods and services for infrastructure improvements in the
second phase of Project implementation. The operator of the management contract will be
responsible for directing component investment, and will develop semiannual budgets /
workplans and revised investment plans, on the basis of the tentative investment plan included
in Annex 11, for rehabilitation and improved operation, subject to clearance by United Nations
Interim Administration and the Bank.
Project-Component 2 - US$0.30 million
The Integrated Water Resources Management Component will finance consultant services,
training and study tours to develop a framework for integrated water resources management for
the Project area, focused primarily on the issue of allocation of water between water supply and
- 23 -



irrigation users. Possible mechanisms to be studied, and for which proposals should be prepared,
include an irrigation water users association, a water resource management entity responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the Radoniqui dam and market-based water allocation
instruments, including tradable water rights.
-24-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Urban Water Supply mnprovement Component                                                      0.00
Urgent Infirastructure Repairs Sub-Component                  0.00           2.17          2.17
Management Improvement Sub-Component                          0.00           2.00          2.00
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Sub-Component                   0.00           1.45           1.45
Integrated Resources Management Component                       0.00           0.25           0.25
Total Baseline Cost                                             0.00           5.87           5.87
Physical Contingencies                                         O.00           0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                            0.00           0.05           0.05
Total Project Costs                  0.00          5.92           5.92
Total Financing Required                   0.00           5.92          5.92
Reha _biSUblitaion wrs11
Goods                                                             0.00            1.05           0.05
Civil Works                                                       0.00            1.15           1.15
Consulting Services                                               0.00            0.35           0.35
Management Contract                                               0.00            2.00           2.00
Rehabilitation works KfW                                          0.00            1.32           1.32
Unallocated                                                       0.00            0.05           0.05
Total Project Costs        0.00            5.92          5.92
Total Financing Required         0.00            5.92           5.92
Identifiable taxes and dutiesare O (US$m)andthetotalprojectcost,netoftaxes, is 5.92 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 77.7% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 25 -



Annex 4
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Not applicable.
- 26 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Not Applicable
- 27 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Procurement
The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A
and Al. The thresholds for each procurement method and Bank prior review (including
aggregate values) are shown in Table B.   A procurement plan detailing the packaging and
estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is available as part of the Project
Implementation Plan. The Disbursement Schedule is shown as Table C.
Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IBRD will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services
wholly or partly financed by IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997
and revised in January 1999. Standard documents published by the World Bank will be used by
United Nations Interim Administration for the preparation of bidding documents and request for
consultant's proposals.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.90          0.25           0.00          0.15
(consultant services)             (0.00)          (0.90)        (0.25)         (0.00)        (1.15)
2. Goods                            0.25           0.00           0.80          0.00           1.05
(0.25)         (0.00)        (0.80)         (0.00)        (1.05)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          0.40           0.00          0.40
(consultant services)              (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.40)         (0.00)         (0.40)
4. Management Contract              2.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          2.00
(2.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.00)
5. Rehabilitation works KfW         0.00           0.00          0.00           1.32           1.32
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                            2.25           0.90           1.45           1.32          5.92
(2.25)         (0.90)        (1.45)         (0.00)        (4.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 28 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms    0.30     ~~~0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      03
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (.0
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.10     0.00      0.10
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.00)    (0.10)
Total   0.30     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.10      0.00      0.40
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 10)    (0.00)    (0.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 29 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                       200 or >                   ICB
<00 and > 50                NCB                       0.3
< 50                 Minor Works
2. Goods                       100 or >                   ICB                      0.25
< 100and>50                   IS
< 50                      NS
3. Services                     Firms                    QCBS              All TORs and contracts
exceeding US$ 100,000
with firms (US$ 300,000 in
aggregate)
Individuals              Section V          All TORs and contracts
exceeding US$ 50,000 with
individuals (US$ 100,000
in aggregate)
4. Management Contract         200 or >                   ICB                      2.00
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 2.85 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table B1: Capacity of the Project Management Unit in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirement
A Capacity Assessment of the CPE was carried out. With support from CPE, procurement of studies and
the management contract will be responsibility of the Public Utility Department of United Nations Interim
Administration's Pillar IV, Economic Reconstruction and Development. Since the experience with Bank
procurement practices is limited, it is proposed to provide assistance to the Public Utility Department for
the preparation of bidding documents and rely on the CPE for tendering and evaluation processes.
Procurement for Component 1 will be carried out by the private operator as part of its normal
management tasks, under the supervision of CPE for the Bank financed part of these components. A
procurement capacity assessment of the operator will be carried out as part of supervision, once the
procurement system is in place.
- 30 -



Country Procurement Assessment Report status:  Are the bidding documents for the procurement
actions for the firstyear ready by negotiations:
A CPAR has not been conducted for Kosovo    It is expected that all bidding documents for the first
year will be ready by negotiations
TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date of Date ofpublication Indicate if there is Domestic     Domestic
Project Launch    of General       procurement       Preferencefor     Preference for
Workshop:        Procurement       subject to        Goods: No         Works, if
Notice: November mandatory SPN in                     applicable: N/A
16, 2000         Development
Business: Yes
Retroactive Financing: No    Project Preparation Facility: No  Advance Procurement: No
Explain:                                                      _    -
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
CPE will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will ensure that procurement is done in
accordance with World Bank Procedures. All project documentation which reacquires prior review will be
cleared by a PUD and the relevant technical staff. Procurement information will be collected and recorded
by the CPE and submitted to the Bank in the quarterly progress reports. This information would include
(a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions including
advertising , bidding, contract award and completion time for individual contracts; and (c) compliance
with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
KfW will use their procurement procedures for the parts they fmance.
SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project:
Name: Takao Ikegami, Sr. Procurement Specialist
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
None expected.
1. Procurement of Civil Works and Services contracted on the Basis of Performance
Civil Works (US$ 1.15 million) and the management contract (US$ 2.00 million) will be procured as
follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). All contracts for civil works and performance based
services estimated to be above US$ 200,000 equivalent will be procured through ICB. One contract (the
management contract with a private operator) is expected to be procured under ICB procedures with
prequalification, for a total estimated value of US$ 2.0 million.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
US$ 200,000 equivalent. About five (5) civil works contracts are foreseen to be procured under NCB
procedures, for a total estimated value of US$ 0.9 million.
(c) Minor Works (MW) procedures could be used for small scale works and repairs that follow standard
- 31 -



specifications (i.e. pipes replacements and small repairs to buildings), estimated to cost less than US
$50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.25 million. MW procedure will
require quotations from at least (3) three contractors.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods (approximately US$ 1.05 million) will be procured in package sizes that will encourage competitive
bidding. It is foreseen to procure network supplies (ie. pipes, valves, pumps, meters), treatment,
monitoring and excavation equipment and 3 cars to the Company as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for goods estimated to cost US$
100,000 equivalent or above per contract such as for the procurement of dam safety monitoring equipment.
(b) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available goods of standard
specifications (ie. pumps or cars), estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 0.5 million. IS procedure will require quotations from at least three (3) suppliers
from two different countries.
(c) National Shopping (NS) procedures could be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods of standard
specifications (i.e. pumps, pipes or valves), estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.3 million. NS procedure will require quotations from at least three (3)
suppliers.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (US$ 0.40 million in technical assistance is required for the Project) will
be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The following methods
of procurement will be followed:
(a) QCBS procedures will be used for consultant services and training up to an aggregate amount of US$
0.30 million equivalent
(b) Individual Consultants with be hired in accordance with the procedures set up in Section V of the
Guidelines.
4. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business and will be updated annually
if there are any outstanding ICB tenders thereafter. For consultants' contracts equal or above US$ 200,000
a Specific Procurement Notices/Request for Expression of Interest will be advertised in Development
Business, in the Public Procurement Bulletin of the United Nations Interim Administration as well as
another appropriate newspaper of wide local circulation. The Invitation to bid for the civil works contract
procured following ICB procedures will also be advertised in Development Business, in the Public
Procurement Bulletin of the United Nations Interim Administration and an appropriate newspaper of wide
local circulation. Civil works procured by NCB will be advertised in the Public Procurement Bulletin of
the United Nations Interim Administration and an appropriate newspaper of wide local circulation.
- 32 -



5. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement: Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed procurement
plan for the project will be reviewed by United Nations Interim Administration, specifically the Public
Utilities Department (PUD) and the Central Procurement Entity (CPE) and the Bank will be advised of any
revisions for its review in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Annex 1 of the Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the project will be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan which will be modified as appropriate and included in the
progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review: (a) Goods: Any ICB contract will be subject to prior review. (b) Civil Works: All ICB and
the first NCB contracts will be subject to prior review. (c) Consulting Services: Terms of reference for all
consulting and training assignments will be subject to prior review. Request for Proposals (RFP), short
lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and recommendation for award will be
prior reviewed for contracts for individual consultants above US$ 50,000 and firms above US$ 100,000.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract
resulting in an increase above 15% of the original amount, the Bank will reserve the right to prior review of
such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).
Ex-post review: All tenders, regardless of value, are subject to ex-post review. All documentation,
including, but not limited to: terms of reference, bidding documents or request-for-proposals, bids or
proposals received, correspondence on all bids either prior to or following award of contract including
Bank no objections, contracts and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until at least two
years following the close of the Project During Bank supervision missions, not less than 1 in 5 tenders not
subject to Bank prior review will be examined ex-post.
6. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Domestic preference will not apply to any contracts awarded under this Grant.
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 33 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The Bank Grant is expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The disbursement profile will
take into account the fact that the capacity of local contractors, PUD and the Company managed by a
private operator, will gradually build up. No retroactive financing will be allowed.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Civil Works                              1.15                   100% net of taxes
Goods                                    1.05                   100% net of taxes
Consulting Services                      0.40                   100% net of taxes
Management Contract                      2.00                   100% net of taxes
Total Project Costs                      4.60 
Total                                    4.60
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) as follows: (a) civil works for all contracts costing less than US$ 200,000
equivalent each; (b) goods costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent each contract; (c) services
contracts for (i) individuals costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less
than US$ 100,000 equivalent each; and (d) training and study tours for less than US$ 20,000
equivalent each. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be
made against full documentation and respective procurement guidelines. SOEs will be certified
locally by the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA). Related documentation in support of SOEs will
not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the CFA for at least one year, after receipt
by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and supervision missions. If
ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, are financed from
the Special Accounts, the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the Special
Account. The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has: (a) refunded the amounts
involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that can be
used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, United Nations Interim Administration will establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. An initial authorized Special Account allocation of
US$ 450,000 will be established. An authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$
750,000 once the aggregate disbursements of the Grant total US$ 1,000,000 or more. The
account size is justified for several reasons: (i) being able to authorize payments directly from the
Special Account to contracts rather than requesting 'any direct disbursements will be
- 34-



administratively easier for the CFA to manage; (ii) frequent Special Account replenishment
applications would also be an undue administrative burden on the CFA; (iii) the Special Account
will be held in a very secure banking environment as it will be a sub-account of the bank account
containing all donor funds supporting the Kosovo Consolidated Budget (KCB); and (iv) the
Project has a short implementation period, requiring a very quick disbursement method. The
minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment
applications should be submitted by the CFA at least every four months, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Accounting
The CFA, acting under the authority of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, is
responsible for the overall financial management of the Kosovo Budget and the budgets under the
responsibility of the municipalities, which together form the KCB. Specifically, the CFA is
responsible for budget process and preparation, treasury functions, revenue analysis, tax
collection and customs administration. Currently, the CFA is funded primarily through the
international donor community and its day-to-day management is conducted by international
experts. One of its key objectives is to allocate, commit and track funds for public sector
spending through an automated system to enhance accountability and government financial
operations.
To ensure that expenditures are consistent with the amounts and purpose set out in the KCB,
regulations have been approved by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. To
prevent abuse and fraud, explicit administrative instructions and procedures are in place for the
commitment and expenditure of public money. Also, in order to minimize the risk of fraud and
malfeasance, an independent officer from the procurement process checks and confirms that these
rules have been adhered to.
Agreements were reached during pre-appraisal with the CFA on the Bank's reporting
requirements for projects and the need for the establishment of a proper financial management
system to produce Project Management Reports (PMR). The Treasury Department of the CFA
has modified its accounting systems for KCB, and for its single treasury account (STA), which
would consolidate payments and receipts of all line ministries and municipalities. The chart of
accounts is based on the GFMIS. As the participants under the project fall under the umbrella of
the KCB, all project related payments would be made via the STA, and the accounts would be
maintained as part of the CFA's accounting system. The current system, at the moment will not
be able to produce the integrated PMRs (Financial report, Progress Report and Procurement
Management Report), as required by the IDA. However, some additional modifications that are
expected to be carried out shortly, would enable it in the future to produce PMRs.
In ordez for the CFA to produce PMRs acceptable to the Bank, the following steps will be taken:
* a chart of accounts will be developed for the project by the CFA in coordination with the
PUD counterparts, and will be incorporated into CFA's own chart of accounts with budget
classification codes based on the GFMIS;
- 35 -



*  an expatriate staff assigned to the Treasury Department of the CFA will be in charge of
producing the PMR as required by the Bank. He will have counterparts in PUD, who will
coordinate project implementation and assist in the preparation of the PMRs.
* Initial accounts will be developed for the Company during the first phase of Project
implementation;
*  PUD, supported by international experts to be funded by the Government of Germany and the
private operator in charge of the management of the Company, will prepare the physical
implementation part of the PMRs, once the staff capacity has been built up;
* the existing data base will be modified to produce full acceptable quarterly PMRs no later than
September 30, 2001;
* the CFA will utilize traditional Bank disbursement procedures and move to PMR based
disbursements once a Bank Financial Management Specialist has reviewed and certified the
PMRs as acceptable for disbursements; and
The Treasury Department of the CFA is expected to have:
* adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and
accounting required for implementation of the project objectives;
3 proper monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the
project as a whole, its various components and each expenditure category as represented in
the Grant Agreement, by each funding source; and
e Project records will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards as
issued by the International Accounting Standard Committee (IASD).
During the first phase of project implementation the private operator in charge of managing the
water company for the project area will develop a financial management system and procedures
that will enable it to produce PMRs acceptable to the Bank, taking over this responsibility from
CFA. As part of supervision activities, the Bank will appraise this system and the Company's
capacity to carry out the financial management for the part of the project component it
implements.
Project Audits
United Nations Interim Administration has decided to appoint the European Court of Auditors to
undertake annual audits of the entire consolidated Kosovo budget. The audit costs would be
funded by United Nations Interim Administration. Project accounts, financial statements, the
Special Account, Statement of Expenditures and the Company's accounts will be audited in
accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing for Projects Financed by the
World Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(January 1995). In particular, International Auditing Standards as published by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The CFA will provide the Bank
(within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank, on disbursements against certified SOEs, or against PMRs. The opinion should mention
whether the SOEs/PMRs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and
- 36 -



internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawal applications.
Project Reporting
United Nations Interim Administration (PUD, in co-ordination with the CFA and CPE) will
ensure that proper project progress reports are prepared to be submitted to IDA in a timely
fashion, consolidating PUD's managed component and the component managed by the private
operator of the Company. These include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project
financing, implementation progress (including variance reporting), procurement progress, contract
expenditure, and activities and monitoring in accordance with the EMP, see Annex 8. The
reporting system will be in compliance with the formats provided by the IDA in the Project
Financial Management Manual (Exposure Draft, February 1999). A copy has been given to the
CFA and PUD. These would include project status reports, reflecting: (i) the status of
implementation progress, problems encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for actions;
(ii) the current state of project indicators; and (iii) the current costs of each project component
and estimated costs of completion.  Procurement reports would include: (i) progress of
procurement activities against the plans set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, variations in
progress, reasons for variations, and remedial actions; and (ii) bid evaluation reports, as they arise
in the procurement processes.
- 37 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             03/26/2000                   03/26/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     09/18/2000                    09/25/2000
Negotiations                                    11/16/2000                    11/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/05/2000
Prepared by:
Manuel Marifio
Preparation assistance:
David Sislen, Henry Laifio, Arijeta Baruti
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
il -P AMOR~ ~ ~~~8ec~1t
Manuel G. Marifio                 Engineer, PSP
John H. Stein                     Institutional Reform
Stan Peabody                      Social Specialist
Walter Stottman                   Engineer
Takao Ikegami                     Procurement
Gennady Pilch                     Legal Advisor
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist
Taies Nezam                       Social Specialist
Peter Kyle                        Legal Specialist
- 38 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Project Procurement Plan
Environmental Management Plan
Maps FRY 31126 and 31127
Service Agreement
*Including electronic files
- 39 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Sapply Project
Not Applicable.
-40 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KOSOVO: Pilot Water Supply Project
Not Applicable
-41 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Tentative Investment Program
TABLE 1: Investments Required
Problem                   Place                             Proposed solution                   Investment    Priority
(DM)
Physical damage    Mains                         Flowrate meters for exit of plant and mains (6,
diameters 110 o 1100 mm) and entry into main towns
(5, diameters 110 o 400 mm)                             75.000       1
Mains and Gjakove (Dakovica)   Flowrate meters entry into 10 villages (10, diameters
city network                   110 0 400 mm) Flowrate meters for mains (10
diameters between 250-800 mm).                         115.000      2
Rahovec (Orahovac) city network   Flowrate meters for mains (4 diameters between
150-400 mm).
25.000      2
Mains, Gjakove and Rahovec     Substitution of pipes in mains, where problems are
cities                         observed (pipes, special parts, accessories, digging
and mounting with diameters between 110-1.100 mm)    2.300.000      1-2
(approx. 3 km).
Changing of mains' pipes to polyethylene including
special parts, accessories, digging and mounting with
diameters between 63-800 mm (6 km).
Installation and/or substitution of valves (72), vents (40)
and pressure reductors (20), of diameters between
63-600 mm
Quality of service    Mains and entrance to each  Installation of automatic residual chlorine analyzers and
village.                       chlorine dosage meters (15 units).
150.000     1-2
Demand            Gjakove city                   Replacement of 50% of the individual meters (6000
management                                       meters of 15 mm diameter).
(renovation of the                                                                                      280.000       2
individual
meters).
Rahovec city                   Replacement of 50% of the individual meters (1500
meters of 15 mm diameter).
70.000      2
Operations        Dam                            Minor repairs in intake tower.
improvements
Repair automatic valves and electric control panels     25.000      3
-42 -



Sopot pumping station        Purchase 3 pumps
Minor repairs in station building                    60.000      1
Gjakove deposit              Insulate and repair chambers.
80.000      3
Partial Sum     3.180.000
-43 -



TABLE 1: Investments Required (cont.)
Problem                  Place                             Proposed solution                   Investment     Piority
(DM)
Building works,    Intake                       Control building re-construction.
repairs and                                     Purchase open/closing gates towards the by-pass       200.000       3
equipment                                       cnl
update
Minor civil works repairs.
Remove sediments and clean-up the intake area.
Derivation channel            Rebuild 300 m of the canal, including necessary civil
works, access areas, temporal modifications and       400.000      2
preparation of the settling in firm ground, including
deminirig, as necessary (due to the imposibilty to
access the zone (mines present) the ammounts have
been worked out based on the data provided by
Hidrosistemi Radoniqi).
Treatment Plant                Minor repairs to the outside of both buildings.
Minor repairs in the decanters.                       700.000      3
Repair of the filter washing units.
Automation of the filter washing units.
Instal the dosage meter for auxiliary chorine.
Install continuous meters for: turbidity, pH, of raw water.
Install continuous meters for turbidity, pH, of treated
water.
Automation of the dosage meter system to the decanter
and pre-coloration and post coloration.
Equipment for physical, chemical and microbiology
analysis.
Rahovec's pumping             Minor repairs to the building.
Purchase pump.                                         50.000      1
Rahovec's deposit             Build a 2000 m3 deposit and install approx. 2 Km of
pipes with diameter 400 mm                          1.500.000      3
Partial Sum     2.850.000
TOTAL        6.030.000
-44-



TABLE 2.1: Urgent Investments for the 1st Phase
Investment                                                  Amount (DM)
Flowrate meters for exit of plant and mains (6, diameter between 110-1100 mm) and entry into main villages (15,
diameter between 110-400 mm)                                                                                      75.000
Substitution of mains' piping, where problems are observed, including pipes, special parts, accessones, digging and
mounting, with diameters between 110-1.100 mm (approx. 3 km).                                                  1.000.000
Install an automated residual chlorine analyser and chlorine dosega meter in the main villages (4 units. Gjakove,
Rahovec, Sapot, Xerxe)                                                                                            50.000
Control building re-construction. Purchase open/closing gates towards the by-pass canal. Minor civil works repairs.
200.000
Purchase and install pumps and repair the building in the Spaot pumping station.
60.000
Purchase and install pump together with minor repairs in the Rahovec pumping station.
50.000
Purchase of excavation and leakage finding equipment.
50.000
Personnel training, computer systems, and meter reading equipment (TPL).
200.000
Total urgent investments for the 1st phase            1.685.000
-45 -



TABLE 2.2: Investments for the 2nd semester
Investment                                                  Amount (DM)
Fkowrate meters for Gjakove mains (8, diameters between 250-800 mm).
100.000
Flowrate meters for Rahovec's mains (4, diameters between 150-400 mm).
40.000
1st phase repair and /or substitution of networks as leaks are found (2Km of piping, diameters between 63-800
mm, 30 vaives, 15 vents, and 8 pressure reducers, diameter between 63-800 mm).                                 500.000
Install an automated residual chlrine analyser and chlorine dosage meter in the rest of the villages.
100.000
Repairs in decanters, filter washing units and installation of continuous monitors of residual chlorine, pH, turbidity
of exit water.                                                                                                  100.000
Reconstruction of the derivation canal, induding demining as necessary.
400.000
1st phase meters substitution in Gjakove (1200 meters)
60.000
1st phase meters substitution in Rahovec (200 meters)
10.000
Purchase excavation equipment, compressor and leakage finding equipment
50.000
Safety monitoring equipment and system for the Radoniqui dam
500.000
Total investments for the 2nd semester               1.860.000
-46 -



TABLE 2.3: Investments for the 3rd semester
Investnent                                                  Amount (DM)
2nd phase repair and/or substitution of nebvorks as leaks are found (2Km of piping, diameter between 63-800
mm, 30 valves, 15 vents, and 8 pressure reducers, diameter between 63-800 mm).                                   500.000
2nd phase meters substituon in GJakove (2400 meters)
110.000
2nd phase meters substitution In Rahovec (400 meotrs)
30.000
General repairs and substtution of automated valves, electric control panels in the control tower
25.000
Insulation of the deposi chamber in GJakove
80.000
Automation of the filter washing units of the water treatment plant and equipment Installation for pH and turbidity
measurement in raw water                                                                                         200.000
Purchasing of 3 vehildes and a compressor
100.000
Total investments for the 3rd semester                1.045.000
-47 -



TABLE 2.4: Investments for the 4th Semester
Investment                                                  Amount (DM)
3rd phase repair and/or substitution of networks as leaks are found (2Km of piping, diameter between 63-800
mm, 30 valves, 15 vents, and 8 pressure reductors for diameters between 63-800 mm).                              300.000
3rd phase meters substituton in Gjakove (2400 meters)
110.000
3rd phase meters substituton in Rahovec (400 meters)
30.000
Minor repairs in buildings. Installation of a dosage meter for auxliary chlorine, automation of the dosage units in
the decanter, pre-cloration and post-clorabon. Repair of the dosage units.                                       400.000
Installation of the telecommunications system, acquisition of truck and various equipment (smaller pumps etc..)
100.000
Construction of a 2000m3 deposit in Rahovec and of approx. 2Km of distribution pipe with diameter 400 mm.
1.500.000
Total investments for the 4th semester                2.440.000
-48 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Management Contract with a Private Operator
1.    There is no previous private sector participation (PSP) in the water supply (WS&S) sector
in Kosovo. There is nonetheless specific experience related to the preparation of management
contracts in other countries, in locations that faced similar challenges to those faced in the Project
area. These provided useful information and insight for this type of PSP initiatives in the WS&S
sector. This experience highlights the three main factors that influence the delivery of efficient
and effective WS&S services under this formula of PSP: (i) the need for an adequate regulatory
framework that establishes clear roles and responsibilities among sector agencies; (ii) the existence
of appropriate conditions to set tariff levels and establish billing/collection mechanisms that can
generate the funds necessary for financial autonomy and signal the real cost of water to the
consumers; and (iii) the need for an efficient and cost-conscious management that can rationalize
expenditures and plan for fluctuations in the stream of revenues.
2.    Water supply in the Project area faces several key challenges related to commercial,
financial and technical efficiency in the management of the service which are critical for its
sustainability and for the achievement of the project objectives. They are: (i) urgently
rehabilitating physical infrastructure seriously deteriorated due to neglected maintenance and war
damage; (ii) increasing its revenue stream through better billing and collection procedures; (iii)
reducing unaccounted-for-water levels; and (iv) improving the operation and maintenance of the
system, which is being inefficiently carried out without performance and demand management
requirements.
The Management Contract
3.    In order to address these challenges, it has been agreed that United Nations Interim
Administration will contract the management of the services with a qualified and experienced
private operator for two years. The management contract would be a first step in the process of
involving the private sector in the delivery of the service, which is expected to result in a
concession or lease contract at the end of the project. This management contract is intended to
provide the flexibility that comes with working outside the public sector, as well as the experience
and working methodology that are required to confront the important transformation process
initiated for the sector. The management contract is also intended to improve the impact of the
financial support that will be provided through the project for the rehabilitation of the existing
infrastructure.
4.    The management contract constitutes a key element in the process that has been designed
to foster the institutional modernization and improvement of water and sanitation services in the
project area. Under the design that has been adopted for the management contract, the private
operator will be directly responsible for the management of the services and the contracts with
providers, for controlling the commercial activities and for the implementation and monitoring of
the works and investments to be financed by the World Bank project. Key tasks to be carried out
by the operator include: (i) setting up macrometering and micrometering and operating and
- 49 -



maintaining the water supply system; (ii) development of the commercial, information and
financial management systems; (iii) interfacing directly with customers and maintaining good
public relations; (iv) evaluating the current staff, proposing a personnel and staffing plan for
approval by the Supervisory Board and executing it; and (v) preparing bi-annual investment plans
to be financed by the grant and managing its procurement and implementation upon approval by
United Nations Interim Administration, the Supervisory Board and the Bank. The responsibility
of managing the services also includes the obligatory achievement of the efficiency goals which
will be part of the performance targets of the Contract Plan for the company, that will be
monitored by the Supervisory Board, with the support of an independent consultant financed by
the grant. Additionally, the operator will design an Strategic Plan for the company, that will,
among other issues, tackle maintenance and operation beyond the initial repairs and rehabilitation
supported by the Project,
5.    Consistent with its objectives, the management contract will incorporate economic
incentives to reward the private operator. These will be calculated upon the achievement of
physical targets in the first year (ie. setting up an accounting and financial management system,
including the cadaster of clients, completing the chlorination and post-chlorination of the supply,
completing macrometering), and reductions in unaccounted-for-water and improvement of
collection and operating ratios above the targets set in the Contract Plan, in the second year. It
will also include financial penalties when these perfornance targets are not reached (part of the
fixed payments will be conditioned to the successful achievement of the performance targets).
6.    The performance targets included in the Contract Plan are presented in the Appendix 1 (to
be confirmed during appraisal). They have been established during project preparation through
consultation with municipal authorities, users and United Nations Interim Administration's Public
Utilities Department, supported by consultants with international experience in contracts involving
private operators in the management of water supply services. The targets were based on an
evaluation of present conditions and an estimnate of realistic potential for improvement based on
the experience of the consultants.
Contract Payment
7.    The contract has been designed so that the direct risk taken by the private operator is
moderated by monthly payments, financed by the project. The compensation system consists of
two components. The first component will be a fixed monthly payment (retainer"). The second
component will be a variable incentive payment, contingent on the achieving of the physical
targets for improvements reflecting the entrepreneurial impact of the operator's work. This will
be financed the first year out of the grant, and in the second year by the revenue generated by the
improvements made, with a maximum value limnited to fifty percent of the generated positive
benefit (without depreciation). The incentive part of the payment system is based on the idea of
short-run sharing of benefits obtained from the independent activities of the operator. It will
provide incentives for augmented efficiency, introduce a quasi-risk-effect to the participation of
the operator, and create the possibility of additional benefits in the form of payments for
performance above pre-established targets. Both incentives and penalties will be levied on a
semi-annual basis.
-50 -



8.    Since the management contract is the first step in the process of involving the private
sector in the delivery of the services in the project area, and that process will likely lead to a
concession/lease contract at the end of the project, two additional conditions have been
incorporated in the management contract: (i) the winner will not be excluded from the bidding
process for the concession/lease contract; and (ii) strict and transparent conditions for reporting
and accessibility by other firms to the technical and commercial information of the operation and
management of the company have been included as part of the Terms of Reference of this
contract. Both conditions have been incorporated in order to avoid market capture by the
operator and exclude potential bidders that would be interested in a longer term type of contract.
Bidding Process
9.    The management contract will be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
among a list of prequalified international operators of WS&S services. Prequalified bidders will
be asked to submit their proposal in two envelopes: the first envelope will identify and provide
the CVs of the proposed general manager and financial manager that will be seconded to the area
for the whole length of the contract; the second envelope will include the bidder's offer for the
retainer. The contract will be awarded to the bidder with the lowest retainer offer that complies
with the following technical specifications: (i) the general manager has experience in managing a
water company supplying at least 200,000 people, for at least five (5) years; (ii) the financial
manager has experience in a municipal services, for at least five (5) years.
10.   Prequalification. Given the fact that the management contract has been designed to
reduce the direct risk to the operator, the potential of the bidders to achieve high levels of
efficiency, generating rapid benefits to the community and improving the economic-financial
aspects of the services is one of the key elements considered in the prequalification.
11.   A public call for prequalification will be issued in the Development Business, in the Public
Procurement Bulletin of the United Nations Interim Administration and an appropriate newspaper
of wide local circulation, to identify the bidders which could adequately address all of the aspects
of the private sector participation model proposed. The main criteria for pre-qualification are:
(a)   Commercial Capacity. All bidders must demonstrate the capacity to operate a
service with a business volume comparable to that of the project area.  As part of this
requirement, annual sales in potable water and sanitation services operated by the bidder must be
over US$ 20 million, and in addition, the company must exhibit a minimum audited net worth of
US$ 20 million as of December 31, 1999.
(b)   Technical Capacity.   Business experience also constituted an important
compouent of technical capacity, and to that end a series of minimum standards representing the
base levels of experience and management capacity considered necessary are requested. Those
minimums standards are:
* minimum total population served of 900,000 inhabitants
- 51 -



* operation of an urban system serving at least 450,000 inhabitants
*  minimum annual sales of US$ 20 million (referred to water services, including all of the
services in which the bidder exhibits responsibility for overall management)
(c)   Technical Quality. The technical-operative capacity and efficiency with which the
bidders currently manage services under their control is also considered key conditions. Two
parameters are used to measure the operational aspects of management and define a minimum
level of efficiency:
* The minimum collections index should exceed eighty percent (defined as the percentage of
total billing for the service that is actually received by the provider); and
* The maximum unaccounted-for-water index should not exceed twenty percent of production
(defined as the percentage of water produced that is not billed to users).
- 52 -



- 53 -



