                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 31770

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                 (TF-24792)

                                                   ON A

                                          TRUST FUND GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                                  TO THE

                     UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO

                   FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO, SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                                  FOR A

                                   PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                              JULY 15, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = EURO ()
                                             1 = US$ 1.31
                                         US$ 1 =  0.76

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1-    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNWPP -  Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Project
CAS -    Country Assistance Strategy
ERR -    Economic Rate of Return
EU -     European Union
FMS -    Financial Management Specialist
GTZ -    Gesellschaft für Technische
GW -     Gelsenwasser AG
HSR -    Hidrosistemi Radoniqi
IBRD -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB -    International Competitive Bidding
ICR -    Implementation Completion Report
IDA -    International Development Agency
IR -     Independent Reviewer
KEK -    Korporata Energjetike e Kosoves (Energy Utility)
KfW -    Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
KTA -    Kosovo Trust Agency
MC -     Management Contract
MESP -   Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning
NPV -    Net Present Value
NRW -    Non-Revenue Water
OFMP -   Operational and Financial Monitoring Project
PAD -    Project Appraisal Document
PISG -   Provisional Institutions of Self-Government
PO -     Private Operator
POEs -   Publicly Owned Enterprises
PSP -    Private Sector Participation
SAM -    Serbia and Montenegro
SB -     Supervisory Board
SOEs -   Socially Owned Enterprises
SRSG -   Special Representative of the Secretary General
TSS -    Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK -  United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
WUA -    Water User Associations

                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
               Sector Manager     Sumter Lee Travers, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Manuel Mariño

                                           KOSOVO
                                 Pilot Water Supply Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Grant Recipient's Completion Report                                     31
Annex 9. Executive Summary of Health Impact Study Conducted by AISA              37
Annex 10. Maps of Kosovo                                                         39

Project ID: P070365                                                  Project Name: Pilot Water Supply Project
Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino                                        TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 15, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pilot Water Supply Project                               L/C/TF Number: TF-24792
   Country/Department: KOSOVO                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (94%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Access to
                            urban services for the poor (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Water resource management (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/15/2000                                     Effective: 04/18/2001                04/18/2001
     Appraisal: 09/25/2000                                         MTR: 10/31/2002                  04/06/2003
      Approval: 12/26/2000                                      Closing: 01/15/2004                 01/15/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION/UNITED NATIONS
                                           INTERIM ADMINISTRATION
                      Other Partners:      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) (Co-financing)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Sumter Lee Travers                             Walter Stottmann
Team Leader at ICR:             Manuel Mariño                                  Manuel Mariño
ICR Primary Author:             Michael Webster


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: The Project was identified, prepared and appraised under considerable uncertainty in post-war
Kosovo. The conflict of the late 1990s between ethnic Serbs and ethnic Albanians has left Kosovo deeply
         1


divided along ethnic lines. Since 1999 the province has been under the administrative rule of the United
Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and the final status of Kosovo remains
uncertain. Some progress towards self-rule has been made in the progressive transfer of powers from
UNMIK to the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government (PISG) although the UN retains final legal
authority under the UN Security Council Resolution 1244.             Under this resolution, Kosovo (with a
population of less than the 2 million people) remains a province of Serbia and Montenegro (SaM, 11
million people), but has "substantial autonomy and self-administration."           UNMIK has formed four
"pillars," led by different agencies, to implement its administrative responsibilities. Pillar 4 is under the
leadership of the European Union (EU) and is responsible for Economic Reconstruction, Recovery and
Development. In June of 2002 the EU pillar established the Kosovo Trust Agency (KTA) to assist in the
privatization of the Socially Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and the administration of Publicly Owned
Enterprises (POEs). As this included the responsibility for administering all water, waste and irrigation
enterprises, KTA became the de facto Implementing Agency for the Project.

The Project area ­ the towns of Gjakovë (Dakovica in Serbian), Rahovec (Orahovac), joined later by
Lumbardhi and the 56 villages in the surrounding areas (a combined total of about 200,000 people) ­ was
one of the most severely damaged areas in Kosovo. Before the war, water services in the Project area were
delivered at a relatively high level: 99% of all users were metered, collection rates were 70 ­ 80% and
system losses were estimated to be approximately 24%. However, devastation of the infrastructure during
the war, the exodus of many capable officials, and the lack of regular maintenance of the network for a
decade, resulted in significant deterioration of the water supply network. Maps of the Project area and the
water supply network are shown in Annex 10.

The Bank's engagement in Kosovo has been framed by the three Transitional Support Strategies (TSS)
(1999, 2002 and 2004), which have provided the strategy for the US$81.5 million grant assistance
allocated as of mid-May 2005. The first TSS, during which time this Project was prepared, focused on
three main objectives: (i) economic reform and institution building; (ii) growth, job-creation and income
generation; and (iii) infrastructure rehabilitation and improved service delivery. The US$4.6 million IDA
grant to UNMIK for the Kosovo Pilot Water Supply Project was intended to contribute to the third
objective.

Objective: The objective of the Project was to assist the Recipient to test the reform in the water sector in
the Gjakovë-Rahovec area of Kosovo, and, specifically to:

i.       Ensure the sustainable and efficient provision of water services
ii.      Support urgent repairs to the water system infrastructure
iii.     Demonstrate the viability of private sector participation in the provision of water services
iv.      Develop a model for integrated water resources management.


1
 Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro, hereafter, Kosovo.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The total Project cost was US$5.92 million of which US$4.6 million was to be funded by a Bank grant and
US$1.32 million by the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW).             The Project was comprised of the
following components:

Component 1: Water Supply Improvement (US$5.62 million, 95% of total cost)
·        Sub-component 1. Urgent Infrastructure Repairs (US$2.17, 37%). Repairs to the water supply
         system in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area to address urgent problems caused by lack of maintenance
         and damage from recent conflict, through the financing of goods and works. This sub-component
         included co-financing from KfW of US$1.32 million which was already under implementation
         during appraisal.
·        Sub-component 2. Management Improvement (US$2 million, 34%). Improvement of the efficiency
         of water services in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area, including improvement in the operational and
         financial management, through the financing of performance-based management by a private
         international operator, and consultant's services.
·        Sub-component 3. Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$1.45 million, 24%). The rehabilitation of the
         water supply system in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area to address medium term infrastructure
         improvement needs, based on work plans, budgets and proposals to be developed by the private
         international operator, through the financing of goods, works and services.

Component 2: Integrated Water Resources Management (US$0.3 million, 5%).
·        Development of a framework for integrated water resources management, with focus on water
         allocation issues, through the financing of consulting services.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) the Project objectives
were clear and were stated priorities of the Bank and UNMIK, and were suitably ambitious; (ii) the Project
design reflected a credible means of achieving the Project objectives and took into account relevant lessons
from prior projects. However, it did not take adequate cognizance of the capacity or the commitment of the
implementing agency in a post-conflict context; and (iii) the Project design identified relevant risks with
mitigating measures and complied with all Bank safeguard policies.

Assessment of objectives: These objectives were, and still are, highly relevant. Rebuilding war-torn
infrastructure was a clear priority for both UNMIK and the Bank. The Bank's TSS clearly focuses on the
rehabilitation of infrastructure damaged by the conflict, and the institutional and policy reform necessary to
create efficient and sustainable service delivery as one of the three priority areas for Bank support. In
addition, UNMIK and the Bank both agreed on the need for broader reforms in the water sector in Kosovo



                                                     - 3 -

to address the medium and long-term problems of weak management, rehabilitation and the need for more
effective waster resources allocation. The Project objective ­ testing the appetite for reform, and in
particular, for private sector participation -- was ambitious in such an uncertain political and institutional
environment. However, the risk was worth taking and entirely consistent with the Bank's and UNMIK's
priorities. In fact, it is the combination of emergency investments ­ through the urgent repairs to the water
system ­ and the piloting of sustainable management models for water service delivery and water
allocations that gives this project depth and potency. Alternative approaches, such as a fund for urgent
rehabilitation needs, or a technical assistance project, would not have brought about the same level of
management improvements in the regional water supply company, and moreover, would not have tested the
reform agenda to the same degree as this approach offered.

Assessment of design: Given the difficult political environment and the uncertain institutional
arrangements, particular care needed to be taken to ensure that the project design was viable. By focusing
the implementation of the project on management improvements at the local level with an international
Private Operator, the Project avoided some of the potential problems of relying too heavily on government
(both central and local) and UNMIK, which were in a state of flux and could provide little support to the
Project. Lessons from other Bank projects in post-conflict areas (for example, Bosnia-Herzegovina), such
as the need for simplicity in design, and the difficulties in implementing local solutions, informed the design
of the Project. The Project design presents a clear method of achieving the Project objectives and is rated
as satisfactory. The following design features are noteworthy and require further assessment: (i) whether
or not a three year implementation period, and more importantly, a two year management contract was
sufficient to achieve the desired development impact. It is generally accepted that 3-5 years are necessary
for a Management Contract to have a significant impact on a company; however, financing of the Project
was constrained by the terms of the Kosovo Trust Fund which did not allow for a longer time frame; (ii)
whether or not the Project should have used a Project Implementation Unit (or a contractor) instead of
using UNMIK as the Implementing Agency. While UNMIK was the logical counterpart at the time, in
hindsight, the Project did not sufficiently assess the commitment of UNMIK to the Project, or its capacity
to implement the Project.        However, it is not clear whether this could have been assessed prior to
implementation.

Safeguards and risks: Three Bank safeguards were triggered: (i) Environmental Assessment. In response
to the environmental safeguard, an Environmental Management Plan was prepared which was regarded by
the peer review team as an example of best practice; (ii) Safety of Dams. The Project area is supplied
water by the Radoniqi Dam; a 20-year old dam with the capacity of 113 million m located 9km north of
                                                                                        3


Gjakovë. In accordance with the safeguard policy, an independent dam specialist inspected the dam during
Project preparation and made recommendations on the dam and appurtenant facilities.                      These
recommendations have been carried out during Project implementation and a final safety inspection is
currently underway, as well as the preparation of a manual for the operation and maintenance of the dam.
The total risk factor of the dam (in accordance with ICOLD Bulletin 72 is Risk Class III (High); (iii)
Projects in International Waters. Water to the Project area is abstracted from the Lumbardhi i Decanit and
Proni i Becit Rivers which flow into the Beli Drim River which flows into Albania. As the waterway
impacts on a foreign waterway, OP 7.50 is triggered. The Project team asserted, and Bank management
agreed that the Project would have a minimal impact on downstream users. Nonetheless, a letter describing
the Project was sent to the Government of Albania for information and no further action is required.

Most key risks and mitigation measures were properly identified, including the potential for administrative
delays in decision making by UNMIK. However, the Project had limited ability to mitigate the risks
associated with the final status of Kosovo, a pervasive political risk which had a significant impact on the



                                                      - 4 -

Project. One risk that was not clearly identified was the lack of a clear regulatory environment needed for
effective oversight of the Management Contract, for example, in the registration of the company. However,
similarly to the political risk, the lack of regulation was linked to the evolving status of Kosovo, and was
beyond the means of the project to influence. Even in retrospect, it is the view of the Bank's team that if
registration of the company had been made a condition for effectiveness, it would not have happened. This
would have stalled the project and would have resulted in an inferior outcome. Another risk that was not
identified by the project is the foreign exchange risk that turned out to be significant.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The Project achieved all its major relevant objectives and is likely to have a significant
development impact, beyond its relatively modest size. The primary objective of the project, to "test the
reform in the water sector", was achieved by demonstrating that a poorly performing company (with over 
250,000 operating losses and large debts) can be turned into a financially viable concern (operating profits
over  100,000) within 3 years by implementing management improvements.                 2  In addition, the project
demonstrated that management improvements can be achieved through the use of a Management Contract,
and that the international private sector may be interested in small town contracts such as the one developed
for the 200,000 people in the Project area. These lessons are very timely, as UNMIK/KTA has embarked
on a process of reforms in the water sector to improve the efficiency and sustainability of water supply
services throughout Kosovo. The first of these reforms is the consolidation of the 30 Municipal water
companies into 7 regional water companies, and the separation of water supply companies from irrigation
companies. The lessons from the project in improving the financial and operational performance of the
companies can now be replicated in the other companies, and can contribute to reducing the overall fiscal
stress in Kosovo from the subsidy burden of the water companies. In addition, the Project developed a
model for integrated water resources management, and in particular, water allocations between domestic
and agricultural users that can be used in all of the four river basins in Kosovo.

The primary outcome of the Project is the improved operational and financial performance of the
Gjakovë-Rahovec Regional Water Supply Company, Hidrosistemi Radoniqi (HSR).                           The Project
succeeded in restoring the integrity of the water supply system in the Project area (and providing a 24 hour
water supply all year around to Rahovec for the first time) and substantially improved the efficiency,
financial performance and sustainability of the company. The Operator was not able to introduce all the
management improvements necessary to fully transform HSR into a financially sustainable enterprise due
to the short length of the contract; however, the management contract has been extended by a further two
years (financed by KfW) and this is likely to enhance the sustainability of the Project benefits significantly.
The successful performance of the Operator to date has demonstrated the viability of private sector
participation, even in relatively low revenue environments such as the Project area. This has relevance
within and outside of Kosovo.


2
 Note, the figures for operating loss/profit do not include the cost of the Management Contract ($2.1 million)
which was grant financed. However, it is assumed that much of the financial benefit from the contract will be
realized in the follow-on project. It should also be noted that the figures do not reflect the 40% rise in operating
costs incurred by the company due to increased maintenance budgets, salaries, taxes etc., which understates the
improvements in overall financial performance.




                                                      - 5 -

The two outcome indicators for the Project (listed in Annex 1) are improved efficiency and sustainability of
the water service, and improvements in health from reduction in water-borne disease. Improvements in
efficiency and sustainability of the service are demonstrated by improvements in the output indicators as
detailed in section 4.2, in particular: (i) the completed urgent infrastructure repairs; (ii) improved financial
performance of HSR; (iii) increased operational efficiency of HSR; and (iv) improvements in company
management and administration.

The impact on environmental health has been assessed by two health impact studies, a baseline study that
was completed at the start of the project and a health impact study that is currently underway. Initial
results from the study show a significant decrease in the incidence of water-borne disease in the urban areas
of the project, i.e., the towns of Gjakovë and Rahovec, and the study shows a correlation to improvements
in water supply quality and quantity [Note, as this is not a rigorous epidemiological study, causation cannot
be claimed; however, it is widely accepted that improvements in water supply should result in decreased
water-borne disease]. There has been some decrease in diarrheal disease in the villages in the Project Area;
however, this has not been nearly as significant. The average performance in the rural areas is due to the
fact that many villages were not connected to the bulk supply under the Project. In addition, food
contamination continues to be widespread, mainly due to the way in which vegetables are grown and
prepared. The Executive Summary of the Health Impact Study conducted by AISA (Spanish NGO) is
attached as Annex 9.

KTA is implementing an Operational and Financial Monitoring Project (OFMP, financed by KfW) to
monitor performance and benchmark the seven newly consolidated regional water supply companies. It is
difficult to draw conclusions as to the relative performance of HSR to the other companies as: (i) data from
the other companies is believed to be very unreliable; and (ii) data has not been collected prior to May 2004
and therefore we cannot assess the change in relative performance of HSR over the project life (and
subsequently, the impact of the Management Contract). However, given these caveats, HSR performs
better than the Kosovo average on metering, billing ratio, collection ratio, operating ratio and debtors
months and worse than average on non-revenue water (this is discussed in 4.2) and at the Kosovo average
for all other indicators.

The Project implemented 69% of the planned infrastructure investments and partially implemented the
water resources management component. This was due to a reduced overall budget due to the depreciation
of the US dollar relative to the  and increases in the fees of the Operator due to amendments to the
Management Contract.        The KfW-financed follow-on project will fund some of the investments not
executed under this Project (of the 7 works contract planned under the project, 2 have been transferred to
the follow-on project).

In summary, the Project objective was ambitious, and the Project was implemented in a very poor
regulatory, institutional and most importantly, political environment and with relatively little time and
funding, but provided significant benefits with important impacts on the Project area and the Kosovo water
sector. The investments targeted by the Project financed critical infrastructure necessary to restore the
water supply system, and improvements to the performance of HSR often exceeded the performance
targets.   The Project failed to implement all planned investments and integrated water resources
management activities. However, the continued support from KfW will finance many of these investments,
secure the management improvements to HSR and enhance the sustainability of the Project.




                                                      - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Summary:
                  Component                 Appraisal estimate   Actual (US$m)           Rating
                                                 (US$m)
1  Water Supply Improvement                                                                S
   1.1 Urgent Infrastructure Repairs                      2.17                2.05        (S)
   1.2 Management Improvement                             2.00                2.91        (S)
   1.3 Infrastructure Rehabilitation Fund                 1.45                0.61        (S)
2  Integrated Water Resources                             0.25                0.07         S
   Management
   TOTAL                                                  5.92                5.64


Component 1: Water Supply Improvement Satisfactory

Component 1 consists of three sub-components: urgent infrastructure repairs; and the two sub-components
relating to the Management Contract, i.e., the payment to the Operator and the investment fund (managed
by the Operator). Sub-component 1 was completed by the summer of 2001 (prior to the start of the other
components), and provided an essential baseline for implementation of the other two subcomponents. The
investment by KfW in Gjakovë and Rahovec was part of an urgent infrastructure repair project covering
the five towns under German protection in Kosovo (also including Prizren, Suhareka and Pejë). The
sub-component financed works such as the rehabilitation of the reservoir, the intake works and the
treatment plant; goods such as bulk water meters, chlorination units, leak detection equipment; and the
supporting consulting services needed to restore basic functioning of the networks. The implementation of
this sub-component was satisfactory.

The most significant output of the component, and the Project, was the management improvements
achieved through the management contract. The consolidated regional water supply company Hidrosistemi
Radoniqi (HSR) was formed to supply drinking water to the towns of Gjakovë, Rahovec and Lumbardhi
and the surrounding 56 villages by consolidating the Rahovec Komunalia (Rahovec Water Company) and
the Lumbardhi Company into the transformed Gjakovë water company. In addition, an irrigation company
was formed to service the 10,000 ha under irrigation previously supplied by HSR.             Management
improvements to HSR were achieved through a management contract awarded to a German Utility
Company, Gelsenwasser AG through an International Competitive Bidding procurement process. The
management contract was initially for 2 years, and later extended to 3 years, from February 2002 to
January 2005. Bidding was based on the fixed management fee. The Operator also received an additional
performance incentive compensation based on an agreed set of indicators and targets. An Independent
Reviewer (IR) was used to verify the achievements of the indicators and make recommendations to KTA on
the payment of the Performance Incentive Compensation based on four key indicators. Gelsenwasser won
the bid based on the Management fixed fee of 775,000.

Annex 1 presents the achievements of the Project using the output indicators included in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD). A more comprehensive assessment of the project is presented in Table 1.2 in
Annex 1 which shows the full list of indicators, targets and achievements for each semester and the key
performance indicators used by the IR to calculate the Incentive Bonus. A summary of the financial and
operational results of the project is presented in table 4.1 below. The key results of the management
contract are:



                                                   - 7 -

·  Service quality to Rahovec municipality improved markedly, from intermittent and poor quality
   supply that did not reach the whole town (customers in Rahovec and some villages in Lumbardhi
   did not receive water for a few weeks during the summer of 2000 and 2001) to 24-hour supply
   across the town with adequate water quality all year round.
·  Significant operational improvements to HSR, in particular, consumer metering, consumers
   billed, collection ratio, production metering (50% to 100%) and improved operating ratio. Two
   operational indicators that performed significantly below targets were: (i) only 69% of the planned
   investments were executed as discussed in 4.1; and (ii) high non revenue water. The estimate of
   non revenue water (NRW) during appraisal was 50%; however, at the start of the Management
   Contract, it was re-estimated as 70% (and this was verified by the IR). The end of the contract
   only reduced this to 62%. The reason for this poor performance, as corroborated by the IR, was
   the delay in the capital works program that had not reduced leaks and overflows as anticipated, and
   also the poor state of the distribution network. NRW is also affected by a range of other factors
   such as the tariff increases (and the increased water theft), proportion of metered connections, an
   importantly, the commitment of the municipality to address illegal consumption (administrative
   losses were estimated to account for 50% of NRW). NRW has been identified as a key problem to
   be addressed in the next phase of the MC.
·  Financial performance of the company is highlighted in the turn around of operating loss to
   operating profit. This was achieved despite the repayment of aged debts incurred prior to the MC
   and the nonpayment of outstanding invoices by the municipalities and institutions of  240,000.
   While tariffs were increased from  0.13 to  0.2 and 0.4 (>40m3/month) for domestic consumers
   and from  0.39 to 0.6/m3 for industrial institutional customers, HSR still has lower tariffs than
   the Kosovo average ( 0.2/m3 while  0.28 is the Kosovo average). The primary reason is the
   reluctance of the key shareholder in the Supervisory Board, the Gjakovë Municipality, to agree to a
   tariff increase, which was only passed in July 2004, over two years into the MC. The Operator
   estimates the potential loss to HSR of not implementing tariffs reforms in 2003 at  750,000.
·  Significant strengthening of HSR's management and administration systems took place, in
   particular, financial management systems, procurement systems, GIS-based cadastre, customer
   information systems, human resources policy, staff training plan, computer billing system, water
   quality control plan and other modern management systems.




                                               - 8 -

 Table 4.1 Summary of financial and operational results

                                       Unit      Baseline1              Latest Estimate       %
                                                 (2001)                 (2005)                change
Water production                               3
                                             m             21,625,304             19,699,730            -9

Service connections                          no.                13,972                19,850            42
Staff                                        no.                   167                   192            15
Staff / 1000 connections                    No.                   12.0                    9.7          -19
Revenues invoiced                                           1,365,518              1,874,442            37
Cash collected                                                715,845              1,416,953            98
Collection ratio                              %                    304                    81          175
Operating profit/loss                                        -256,344                116,579           N/a
Operating ratio2                              %                    0.7                    1.2           74
Consumers metered                         %/no.                     10                    86           757
Consumers billed                              %                     20                   100           400
Collection efficiency                       mth                     13                    4.1          -68
Unaccounted for water                         %                    703                    62            24
Investment executed                           %                     10                    69           N/a


Notes:
1Contains estimates where data was unavailable
2 Operating ratio is defined in the MC as Operating Revenues/Operating Costs (unlike the reverse which is
sometimes used).
3The unaccounted for water figure used in the contract was 50%; however, this was disputed by the Operator, and a
revised estimate by the Independent Reviewer is 70%.
430% is the value used in the contract; however, based on the figures for cash collected and revenues invoiced this
is calculated as 52%.



The consumer panel that was planned to be formed under the Project was never implemented. It should be
noted that HSR established a Public Service Department which performs some of this function, for
example, it established a Service Information System including a 24 hours hotline, the company has a
regular media presence and the company has regular public awareness campaigns.                   In addition, the
Supervisory Board formally represents consumer interests through their elected representatives on the
Gjakovë and Rahovec Municipalities.

Component 2: Integrated Water Resources Management Satisfactory

Component 2 is rated as satisfactory as the most important activity in this component was achieved to a
highly satisfactory extent although a number of other activities planned under this component were not
implemented. A water availability study in the Project area was carried out that formed the basis for a
model for integrated water resources management, and water allocations, within the watershed. The
primary competing users in the Project area are the domestic water users in Gjakovë, Rahovec and
Lumbardhi and the irrigators. The allocation model is consistent with the new water law (passed in 2004)
that gives the ultimate authority of water allocations to MESP.

The water availability and allocation study provides a rational basis for water allocations based on
technical criteria such as the agronomy of the irrigation needs, the demands for domestic water and the


                                                       - 9 -

environmental flow requirements. The study included a bathymetric study of Radoniqi Reservoir and
hydro-meteorological data collection in the Drini I Bardhë river basin. The Radoniqi Reservoir was
financed by IBRD based on the economic need identified by the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia of
improving regional water resource availability. The study confirmed that the design capacity of the
reservoir has been retained (113 million m ). The success of the final workshop and the enthusiasm of
                                             3


MESP indicate a high degree of ownership of the concepts and the policy recommendations coming out of
the study.

In addition to developing the model for water allocations, the Project had proposed to implement a number
of other tasks under this component: (i) establish water user associations (WUA) amongst the irrigation
users; (ii) explore the establishment of a national water resources management entity; and (iii) explore the
possibility of using tradable water rights as a market-based water allocation instrument. The first task was
not pursued further as the WUAs established under the EAR-financed Kosovo Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project were not regarded as successful. The second and third tasks were not achieved due to the budget
reallocations.

A dam safety inspection was carried out in 2000. The report concluded that the dam was in serviceable
condition with no indications of structural instability.       It listed severe damages to the electrical,
communications, controls, mechanical, and instrumentation systems of the dam and its appurtenant
facilities. No urgent rehabilitation works were identified, but a number of high priority rehabilitation works
and studies were proposed. A final dam safety inspection, including the development of guidelines for
operational and maintenance of the dam is currently underway.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Neither an ex-ante nor an ex-post evaluation of economic benefits has been performed. The appraisal did
not conduct an economic analysis as it was argued that "given the post-conflict reconstruction and
institutional reform nature of the project, the project economic analysis has focused on use of least cost
analysis, and no internal rate of return will be calculated." Similarly, the ICR does not provide a full
economic analysis. However, Annex 3 presents a summary of the cost-benefit analysis performed by the
Operator in the final report. The analysis has needed to contain significant assumptions regarding tariff
increases, and performance of the company and the sector over the next 20 years. The Operators analysis
cannot be accepted wholesale, as assumptions used in the analysis are not entirely defendable; however, it
was considered beneficial for the completion report to make some attempt at quantifying project benefits.

Economic benefits from the Project can be seen at two levels: in the Project area, improved water supply
services provide benefits to the population in public health, time saving, and more equitable water
allocations; and at the Kosovo level, the Project helps contribute to reducing the overall fiscal burden by
improving the financial position of the publicly-owned company, and thereby reducing the level of subsidy.
In Kosovo, the growing fiscal stress caused by inefficient government enterprises, coupled with large
deficits and the looming debt issue is of major concern to the Bank, UNMIK and the PISGs. In addition,
poor infrastructure is a constraint for much needed foreign direct investment, and improved water service
delivery is known to have a positive impact on the business environment.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                    - 10 -

Substantial. Kosovo clearly has a unique set of institutional challenges in establishing long-term credible
institutions with the requisite capacity. At the national level, the Project first worked directly with UNMIK
and then later with KTA, and throughout with MESP, which was created in 2002 with transferred power
from UNMIK. To a certain extent the Project was shielded from some of the central level institutional
uncertainty, as it was located at the sub-national level, and in addition, it used the private sector as the
primary implementing agency. However, it was still reliant on the center to support the Project on certain
important tasks. The most important institutional development impact of the Project was the development
and testing of a management model for water supply service delivery that can be replicated by
UNMIK/KTA, MESP and the other six regional water supply companies. The Project provided substantial
learning opportunity for UNMIK and MESP, but most of all for the company HSR and the local
authorities to make more effective use of their limited human and financial resources.

The Operator conducted a limited number of formal training sessions (such as sending selected staff to
Germany for training), and more importantly, on-the-job training; however, the training budget was
minimal and little was done to build local capacity. This is partly due to the short time frame of the
Project, but also because it was asserted that the demonstration effect of improved management was a more
powerful learning tool than more traditional training techniques.

Two activities funded by the Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Program (BNWPP), a Bank managed
partnership program, were implemented in tandem with the Project and contributed to increasing its
institutional development impact: (i) preparation of the Terms of Reference for the Kosovo Water Master
Plan; and (ii) a capacity building program (in collaboration with the University of Pristina) for staff of the
MESP and local authorities.`

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two external factors affecting the implementation and outcome of the Project are: (i) the interim nature of
UNMIK/KTA and the uncertainty about the final status of Kosovo; and (ii) the devaluation of the US
dollar relative to the Euro.

The governance challenges facing Kosovo negatively impacted the Project in a number of ways. At a
fundamental level, it was difficult for the Project to create ownership of the significant reforms that were
underway at the central level, and to fully institutionalize the lessons from the Project. It also directly
impacted the ability of the Bank to support the Project for a longer period, or follow-up the Project with
more broad-based reforms, due to the limitations of the Bank's grant financing and the inability of Kosovo
to borrow from IDA (or IBRD).

The US dollar devalued by 48% over the life of the Project (from US$1.00 = 0.89 at the start of the
Project to 1.32 at the end). As the grant was fixed in US$, the impact on the overall budget of the Project
was significant. This impact was felt mainly in the reduced investment program and in the reduction of the
activities under component 2.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

While the broader uncertainty over the final status of Kosovo was not under the control of UNMIK, there
were factors under its control that significantly affected the project. Despite many efforts by the Project



                                                     - 11 -

team, HSR was never registered, which caused a number of problems for the Operator in the day-to-day
operation of the company. This is linked to a Kosovo-wide debate on POEs and SOEs, which KTA was
not able to solve. However it appears that more effort could have been made in this project. In addition,
the counterparts in UNMIK and KTA changed many times throughout the three years of Project
implementation, which created some inconsistency, and lack of ownership of the Project and delays in
processing payments. The consultant that KTA appointed to support the design and site supervision of the
Project performed poorly during the first year causing delays to the Project. After personnel changes in the
consulting firm the performance improved.

At the local level, the Project enjoyed mixed support from the municipalities. Since the beginning of the
Project the Gjakovë Municipality was skeptical about the value of an International Private Operator and
was not supportive of the Project. In addition, the municipality felt threatened by KTA, as they had the
ability to usurp the responsibility of the Municipality and hand-over power, and resources, to an Operator.
Part of this fear is because the end strategy had not yet been fully formulated and/or communicated to
municipalities, and they did not feel that they were consulted sufficiently in the finding of a long-term
solution. This caused some delays in implementation through its role on the Supervisory Board (a board
chaired by KTA with 4 from Gjakovë, 3 from Rahovec established to oversee the Project). However, the
most important impact was that the Municipality of Gjakovë was not proactive in prosecuting the more
than 500 cases identified by HSR of illegal connections and tariff defaulters, which made it difficult for the
company to enforce the collection of tariffs. HSR implemented a strict procedure for reporting nonpaying
customers (that did not qualify under the social program for reduced tariffs), which was only enforceable
by disconnections by the Municipalities. The obstructionist role of the Municipality of Gjakovë resulted in
the Supervisory Board becoming progressively dysfunctional in decision-making. Decisions tended to be
based on each member's own interests and not with the company's interest in mind. In contrast, the
Municipality of Rahovec played a very constructive role in the project on each of the factors cited above:
the Municipality was always supportive of the project and were prepared to prosecute illegal connections
and back the company's disconnection actions.

The single most important factor in the success of the Project was the strong, committed and competent
management by the Operator. The General Manager showed particular commitment to the Project in his
personal drive for results.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

As UNMIK/KTA has overall responsibility for the implementation of the project, on behalf on the
government, see section 5.2.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The Project was financed from a Bank grant (US$4.6 million) with co-financing granted by KfW for
Urgent Infrastructure Repairs (US$1.32 million). As most of the Project costs were incurred in , and the
impact of the devaluation of the US dollar relative to the  was significant, not all of the planned activities
could be fully financed out of the Project (as discussed in section 5.1.); however, most of the planned
investment is now being financed under the KfW project. In addition to the overall reduction in total
budget, internal reallocation of budgets resulted in the increase of the consulting services and Management
Contract budgets and the decrease of investments and the integrated water resources management
component. All audits of the Project thus far have given a clean (unqualified) opinion on the financial
statements of the Project (latest audit is still to come).   All audits were carried out in accordance with
acceptable auditing standards and met the minimum audit requirements of the Bank.



                                                     - 12 -

The following payments were made to the Operator for the Management Contract: of the total of $2.1
million paid to the Operator, six Performance Incentive Compensations were made for the six contract
semesters totaling $487,785 (installments 1 through 6 were: $138,637, $76,560, $150,000, $76,354,
$25,800, and $20,434). The balance ($1.6 million) was paid out as the Management Fixed Fee for the
original contract (775,000) and the four addenda.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. Despite a challenging political, fiscal and institutional environment, it is likely that the benefits
accruing from this Project will be sustained. The primary reason for this positive assessment is the
continuation of support to the Project by KfW for a further two years for the extension of the management
contract (with the same operator) including an investment component with a total value of up to  6.8
million.   This will help HSR galvanize the successes of the Bank-financed Project and increase the
likelihood of achieving long-term financial sustainability.

Currently HSR has a positive cash flow.           However the company faces liabilities dating before the
Management Contract of about  300,000 of which the bulk is arrears to Kosovo Electricity Company
(KEK) that need to be serviced.          In addition, HSR is owed about  241,000, primarily from the
Municipalities and institutions not paying their bills. This large debt threatens the financial position of the
company.     Some of this debt has been serviced by KTA through the Kosovo Consolidated Budget;
however, no agreement has been reached on the remainder. As mentioned in paragraph 5.1, HSR has not
registered and therefore lacks a formal legal basis. This compromised the ability of the company to enter
into legal disputes to recover unpaid bills and also to implement its human resources policy. According to
KTA's most recent estimate, it is unlikely that the company will be registered before mid-2005.

Over the Project life, the operating ratio (i.e., operating revenues / operating costs) of HSR improved from
an estimated 0.7 to 1.2. It is assumed that the trend will continue during the KfW project, and will
hopefully reach 1.4, the ratio estimated by the Independent Reviewer as necessary in order to ensure
financial sustainability.

It was originally expected that the Management Contract would lead to a lease or concession contract.
During implementation, the Operator submitted a proposal for expanding the service area to other
municipalities through a lease contract. However, KTA was not ready to commit to a longer term private
sector arrangement ­ due to the uncertainty surrounding the status of Kosovo, and more importantly, the
absence of a legal framework ­ and thus the idea of a lease or concession has been delayed until the
environment is more conducive. It is not assumed that a lease or concession is necessary to ensure the
sustainability of the project benefits.

Additional evidence for rating the Project sustainability as likely is the attitude of MESP, the agency likely
to be responsible in for water supply in Kosovo in future, to the project. MESP has shown a keen interest
in the project and has stated that it plans to pursue policies that enhance the sustainability of the delivery of
water services in future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

KfW is supporting the Management Contract for a further 2 years with the same operator and under the



                                                      - 13 -

same terms, including the financing of an investment fund. The focus of the MC will be to consolidate the
gains from the first phase and increase the rate of investments in improving the system, in particular, the
very high rates of non-revenue water, currently at over 60%. There is no signal at this stage as to what will
happen after the Management Contract. In theory, it could either go back to local public management, or
lead into a lease or concession contract with either foreign or local private sector. A study is being planned
as part of the KfW-financed project to assess the alternatives.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The performance of the Bank team during Project identification, assistance to the Recipient
in Project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. Project identification responded to the high priority
given by UNMIK and the Bank to the urgent need to rebuild war-torn infrastructure and the longer-term
needs of improving the management effectiveness of delivery water supply services and improving the basis
for water allocations. The Recipient was able to prepare the Project in nine months (as it was an
emergency project), in a large part due to the efficient and effective assistance given by the Bank team.
The resultant PAD is a concise, simple, yet thorough document. All relevant technical, institutional,
environmental and social issues were addressed commensurate with the Project's size, brief implementation
period, and urgent nature of the investments. The procurement arrangements were particularly simple and
well designed. As discussed in section 3.5, most critical risks were identified and measures to mitigate
these risks were adopted except for the exchange rate risk and the risk of poor capacity in the Grant
Recipient. The Project objectives and design respond to lessons from prior projects and utilize the Bank's
grant instrument in an innovative Project. Alternative project designs (for example, an investment fund for
damaged infrastructure, or a technical assistance grant) may have produced adequate results, but not with
the same development impact as this more ambitious approach.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory for the following reasons: (i)
adequate reporting of Project implementation progress; (ii) timely, comprehensive and mostly realistic
Project Status Reports (PSRs) (see below); (iii) the quality of advice given to the Recipient; and (iv) the
regular and appropriately staffed supervision missions and correspondence with the Recipient. In addition,
the Bank was successful in involving KfW to take over and thus secure the long terms sustainability of the
Project benefits.

The Quality Assurance Group carried out a Quality of Supervision Assessment in September 2004. The
panel rated the supervision of the Project as satisfactory overall ("2" on a 6-point rating scale) as well as
satisfactory in three of the four assessment dimensions: (i) focus on development effectiveness; (ii)
supervision of fiduciary/ safeguard aspects and (iii) candor and quality of Project performance reporting;
and rated the fourth dimension (iv) adequacy of supervision inputs and processes as highly satisfactory. An
Independent Procurement Review of the Project was conducted as part of a five-project review in Kosovo
and Albania. Seven contracts (totaling less than US$200,000) out of the total of 45 contracts were
recommended as needing further attention due to minor procurement irregularities. The Bank's team fully
discussed all the findings of the report with the Reviewer and shared the findings of the report with UNMIK
and KTA.




                                                     - 14 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

On balance, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. Project preparation, including all aspects of the design and relevant sectoral issues, was of
satisfactory quality.     The Recipient participated adequately in all Bank missions and performed
satisfactorily in all preparation work.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the performance of UNMIK/KTA in implementing the Project is regarded as
moderately satisfactory; however as the ICR does not have this rating, the performance is rated as
satisfactory. The reason an unqualified satisfactory rating is not given is that while the project overall is
satisfactory, i.e., it's development objectives are largely met, the project management of by the Grant
Recipient had some shortcomings. Management of the Project was shifted from UNMIK to KTA in 2002,
and a number of staff changes in both UNMIK and KTA disrupted the continuity of management of the
Project. Despite repeated requests from the Bank, KTA were not able to register HSR as a legal entity.
Funds were made available by the Project (and additional funds were made available by KfW) for the KTA
legal department to develop a framework for registration. Despite repeated promises from KTA, this never
happened. The lack of priority the project received from UNMIK/KTA was particularly acute during the
first year of implementation causing significant delays. The situation improved in the second year when a
Project Manager was hired (financed out of the project) to manage the project for KTA. In addition,
consultants were hired by KTA (and financed by the project) to provide engineering design and site
supervision. However, the consultants experienced personnel problems and only started performing well
towards the end of the project. The project experienced repeated problems with late transfers from UNMIK
to the KTA Finance Department. It should be noted that many of the shortcomings experienced on the
project were due to factors beyond the control of the staff directly involved in management the Project, and
indeed, many of the overall institutional issues are beyond the control of either KTA or UNMIK and linked
to the future status of Kosovo.

The Project benefited from support from MESP, which has ensured that the Project became part of the
broader debate within the Kosovo water sector, and will hopefully contribute to its long-term sustainability.
In addition, the Municipalities of Gjakovë and Rahovec, including the Mayors, CEOs and water staff all
participated extensively in the Project. However, while the Municipality of Gjakovë publicly stated its
satisfaction with the Project, it has not supported the requests of the Operator to disconnect illegal
connections, a responsibility critical in sending a strong message to customers that nonpayment has
consequence. The Municipality of Rahovec has actively supported the Project throughout.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

See 7.5.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

On balance, the Recipient's performance is rated as satisfactory.


                                                     - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

·        When properly designed, performance-based management contracts can be an effective
instrument to improve the management of water supply utilities and initiate the involvement of the
international private sector, even in relatively small, low revenue systems. The management contract
signed between UNMIK and the Operator provides an example of a well-designed contract.                   After
pre-qualification based on technical and financial capacity, bidding was based on the fixed management
fee.

·        Simple designs, with easy to monitor indicators, and the use of an independent reviewer;
facilitate the proper functioning of management contracts.              During implementation the Operator
received a performance incentive fee based on targets agreed in the contract, and verified by an independent
reviewer. Performance incentives were calculated based on four indicator targets set for each semester of
the contract, and adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in priorities and circumstances of the client.

·        A combination of a Management Contract and an Investment Fund can create the incentives
for improved management of services and provide a good alternative to increased levels of private
sector participation such as lease or concession contracts.

·        Management contracts should be followed up with a clear strategy to ensure project benefits
are sustained. Management Contracts can turn around a company's financial performance over a short
time period (HSR operating profits went from  250,000 loss to  100,000 profit over the three-year life of
the MC), but generally require a minimum of 5 years to be sustainable. Mid-way through the contract, a
strategy should be agreed about whether or not the management will revert back to the previous
management, or whether a greater degree of private sector participation is desirable.

·        Increasing metering reduces consumption, which can negatively impact project revenues. To
mitigate the potential loss in revenues from decreased consumption, an upfront agreement to increase tariffs
needs to be agreed, and collection efficiency needs to increase. Ideally, this should happen prior to the
increased metering to prevent negative cash flows.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

KTA has submitted the Recipient's Completion Report, on behalf of UNMIK. The full text of the report is
included in Annex 8.

The following comments were received by UNMIK on the draft ICR:




                                                     - 16 -

- 17 -

Note: The rating of Borrower Performance in the draft ICR was rated as unsatisfactory and later revised to
satisfactory on further assessment by the ICR team.

(b) Cofinanciers:

KfW has sent the Bank the financial report for their five-town project that includes the US $1.32 million
co-financing for this Project. The report is in the Project files.

The following comments were received from KfW on the draft ICR:

Dear Mr. Shankar,

Thank you for submitting the draft Implementation Report for the Kosovo Pilot Water Supply Project for
our attention and comment.

Generally speaking, I consider the report balanced and appreciate the way KfW´s projects are mentioned.
There are no findings with which I would disagree. Nevertheless, I would like to touch a few minor topics,
partially only formalities:
        l The terms for the Management Contract financed by KfW have been modifies slightly (page
             13, 6.2).
        l One aspect we stressed in the scope of the New Management Contract is the training of local
             staff incl. the contraction and training of personal which should take over (middle)
             management positions. We find it very important and difficult to establish good incentives for
             a management contractor to train local staff/management (instead of doing things with its own
             staff), especially within a shot term contract where the benefits of the training most will likely
             occurred after the termination of the contract. Therefore I would stress that the training of
             local staff is the most important issue for the sustainability of the Management Contract.
        l As for the KfW financed investments you mention only US$ 1.32 for investment measures
             already under implementation during appraisal. In 2004/05 KfW provided additional funds
             (about 0,5 million EUR) for the financing of the "components 4 and 7". These funds have not
             been mentioned in the report.
        l As for the continued support of KFW, the "Water Supply and Sewerage South West Kosovo
             VI" is a EUR 9 million programme out of which EUR 6,8 million                   are assigned for
             investments (incl. consultants). Thereof EUR 3,2 million are assigned exclusively for
             investment in the Radoniqi system and EUR 3,6 million are assigned for investment in Peja,
             Prizren and/or Gjakova Region.
        l Annex 7, Supporting Document 7 ­ the conference was jointly organised by KTA and MESP.
             Please mention KTA and MESP as "authors".

     Best Regards

Ute Rodrian
Project Manager
KfW-Bankengruppe
Water and Sanitation Division, Europe




                                                     - 18 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Comments have been received from the Operator, Gelsenwasser AG. These are available in the project file
and have been incorporated where appropriate.

10. Additional Information

The following Bank staff members worked on the project:
·       Andreas Rohde, Engineer
·       Arben Bakllamaja, Economist
·       Arijeta Baruti, Administrative and Client Support (ACS)
·       Burim Jakupi, ACS
·       David N. Sislen, Co-Team Leader, Economist
·       Henry Laiño, Environmental Specialist
·       Hiran Heart, Financial Management Specialist (FMS)
·       Jasna Mestnik, Disbursement
·       John H. Stein, Institutional Specialist
·       Joseph Paul Formoso, Disbursement
·       Kishore Nadkarni. Finance Specialist
·       Leopoldo Pereira, PSP Specialist
·       Manuel G. Mariño, Team Leader
·       Maria Teresa R. Lim, ACS
·       Michael John Webster, Engineer
·       Mirlinda Gorcaj, ACS
·       Norval Stanley Peabody, Social Scientist
·       Olav Rex Christensen, FMS
·       Salim Benouniche, Procurement
·       Takao Ikegami, Procurement
·       Walter A. Stottman, Sector Manager
·       Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene, Engineer




                                                 - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Outcome/Impact Indicators

             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  PSR
 Improved efficiency and sustainability of Not measured         Efficiency and sustainability improved as demonstrated
 the water service                                              by improved output indicators
 Improvements in health from reduction     Not measured         Health impact survey results pending. Initial results
 in water-borne disease                                         show significant reduction in incidence of water-borne
                                                                disease in towns of Gjakove and Rahovec, and minor
                                                                reduction in rural areas of Project.

 Output Indicators

 Output from each component                Output indicators                   Baseline          Target    Actual/Latest
                                                                                                             Estimate
 1.1 Urgent repairs to water    1.1.1 Restoration of damaged water          All rehabilitation investments funded under
 supply systems completed       supply network and treatment                KfW co-financing were completed on time
                                infrastructure to pre-war condition         and in budget

 1.2 Sustainable provision of   1.2.1. Consumers metered (%)                      10              90            86
 water supply to water users in
 Gjakovë and Rahovec
                                1.2.2. Collection ratio (%)                      <30              90            81

                                1.2.3. Computer-based cadastre (% of               0              100          100
                                consumers cadastered)
                                1.2.4 Financial management system                 No              Yes          Yes
                                operational
                                1.2.5 System improvements completed                0              100           69
                                according to semi-annual workplans
                                (Investment executed according to the
                                Management Contract) (% of plan)




Performance Indicators for Management Contract

The Independent Reviewer verified the performance reported by the Operator in order to calculate the
performance incentive fee. Table 1.2 presents the Performance Indicators that were contractually agreed.




                                                      - 20 -

  Table 1.2 Full list of indicators measured under the Management Contract and Key Performance
                                                           Indicators

    Performance       Unit   Baseline                                          Contract Semesters
      Indicator
                                            1                2                3                  4              5                6

                                         4/02-8/02        9/02-3/03        4/03-8/03         9/03-3/04       4/04-8/04       9/04-1/05

                                      Target   Actual Target     Actual Target   Actual   Target  Actual  Target   Actual Target    Actual

Production metered      %     50       80       100    100        100    100      100     100       100    100      100              100
Large Consumers
metered                 %     20       50       96.5   80         100    100      100     100       100    100      100              100

Consumers metered     %/no.   10       25       47.6   40        51.53   60       65.72    80       80.03  90       85.5  15,966    16,898
Consumers cadastred     %     50       80        n/a   90         n/a    95       100      95        98    98       100              100
Consumers billed        %     20                       80         100    90       100      95       100    98       100              100
Collection ratio        %              30       64.36  60        61.27   70       76.93    80       90.33 90.33     78.40            81.29
Collection efficiency Mth              13       9.32   12.5       9.79   12        7.8     11       6.72   10       7.76             4.10

Operating ratio                                        0.7        1.07   1.2      1.18    1.5       1.06   1.06     1.09   1.09      1.22
Unaccounted
for/Unbilled Water      %                              50        65.44   40       57.75    35       59.14 59.14     59.6  59.65      61.87

Investment executed     %              10       6.95   20         21     60       40.7     90        67    90       72.1    discontinued
Supply chlorinated      %     80      100       100    100        100    100      100     100       100    100      100              100
Service interruption  hr/mth                           30          0     20        0       10        0      5        3                5
Financial
management system                     Yes       Yes

Procurement system                                     Yes        Yes
Service information
system                                 Yes      Yes

GIS-based cadastral
survey                                           No    Yes        Yes

Human resources
policy                                                 Yes       Partly

Staff training plan                                    Yes        No               No
Computer billing
system                                Yes       Yes

WTP Study/ Tariff
proposal                                                                 Yes      Yes

Water quality control
plan                                                              No     Yes       No                No             No



             Key Performance Indicators (used for incentive bonus calculation)




                                                               - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                         Component                              Appraisal        Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                Estimate           Estimate              Appraisal
Water Supply Improvement
  - Urgent Infrastructure Repairs                            2.17            2.05                   94
         KfW financed                                        [1.32]          [1.32]
         Bank financed                                       [0.85]          [0.73]
  - Management Improvement                                   2.00            2.91                   145
  - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Fund                       1.45            0.61                   42
Integrated Water Resources Management                         0.25            0.07                  28
 Physical contingencies                                       0.00
 Price contingencies                                         0.05
                       Total Project Costs                    5.92            5.64                   95



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                Procurement      Method        N.B.F.          Total
          Expenditure Catecgory                      ICB           NCB            Other                        Cost
 1. Works                                            0.00           0.90           0.25         0.00            1.15
                                                    (0.00)         (0.90)         (0.25)       (0.00)         (1.15)
2. Goods                                             0.25           0.00           0.80         0.00            1.05
                                                    (0.25)         (0.00)         (0.80)       (0.00)         (1.05)
3. Services                                          0.00           0.00           0.40         0.00            0.40
                                                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)       (0.00)         (0.40)
4. Management Contract                               2.00           0.00           0.00         0.00            2.00
                                                    (2.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (2.00)
5. Rehabilitation works KfW                          0.00           0.00           0.00         1.32            1.32
                                                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
    Total                                            2.25           0.90           1.45         1.32            5.92
                                                    (2.25)         (0.90)         (1.45)       (0.00)         (4.60)

3
  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
4 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing
the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                              - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million eq.)

Final figures as recorded in "Client Connections".


          Expenditure Category               Total Cost
1. Works                                       0.55
2. Goods                                       0.68
3. Services                                    1.38
4. Management Contract                         2.16
5. Rehabilitation works KfW                    1.32
6. Exchange fluctuations                       -0.22
   Total                                       5.87
[Cancelled amount]                            [0.05]
   [Total]                                    [5.92]


    Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

No financing provided from the Government, therefore this table is the same as the first table "Project costs
by component."




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Summary of cost-benefit analysis of the Management Contract by the Operator

The analysis presented by the Operator in the final report assesses whether or not the Management
Contract (MC) produced positive net benefits. It looks solely at the increased revenue to the company
resulting from the MC using a number of assumptions and asks the question whether or not the
Management Contract produced net benefits or not. It is not a full economic analysis of the project (as it
does not consider all project components), and only looks at the financial costs and benefits of the
sub-component that financed management improvements. In addition, the analysis is not done using
standard methodologies used by the Bank. However, it is an interesting analysis and worthwhile capturing
in the ICR. The following is a brief summary:

Assumptions

·       Investment and operational costs are assumed to be the same for the with and without MC
        scenarios, therefore they are excluded from the calculation;
·       The costs of the MC (i.e., the fixed fee and the performance incentive fee) are assumed to be paid
        directly by the company (HSR);
·       Project benefits are assumed to accrue solely from the increased revenue achieved under the MC
        (this is a conservative assumption as there are clearly other benefits to the company and linkage
        effects to the sector and the rest of the economy);
·       The revenue growth rate is calculated using data from the Operational and Financial Monitoring
        Project data for 2004 (which due to the small sample size, reduces the reliability of the analysis);
·       Cost of capital is assumed to be 12%;
·       Tariffs increases are assumed to be fixed by the central authorities (and not influenced by the
        Operator) and are assumed be the same across Kosovo, i.e., 50% in 2005 and 30% in 2006 (it is
        not clear how realistic an assumption this is);
·       After 2006, cash revenues with the MC are assumed grow at a steady state of 2%, without the
        MC, cash revenues are assumed to grow at 13.5 until 2011, and thereafter at 2% (the average rate
        achieved across Kosovo from 2001 ­ 2004);
·       The economic life of the project is 20 years.

Results

As can be seen in Table 3.1 the net benefit stream becomes positive in 2004, peaks in 2007 and is positive
throughout the economic life of the project.      Using the assumptions above, and the data provided by the
Operator, the net present value is calculated as  2.4 million and the Internal Rate of Return is 58%.




                                                     - 24 -

Table3.1PresentValueofnetbenefitsoverprojectlife




Source:FinalReportoftheOperator




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/26/2000                3    Engineer (1); Economist (2)
              07/10/2000                7    Engineer (4); Fin. Analyst (1);
                                             Social Scientist (1); Consultant
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:
              09/25/2000
              Negotiations:
              11/20/2000

 Supervision

              05/18/2001                3    ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST               S               S
                                             (1); SUPPORT (1)
              03/07/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              06/15/2002                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              11/16/2002                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                             ENGINEER (2); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/23/2003                2    ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST               S               S
                                             (1)
              01/25/2004                8    ENGINEER (3); ECONOMIST               S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (2)
              07/23/2004                3    ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST               S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)




 ICR
              10/07/2004                3     ENGINEER (3)                         S               S




                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              257.3
  Supervision                                                        389.0
  ICR
  Total                                                              646.3




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Bank project documents, in particular, Project Appraisal Document (December 21, 2000), Trust
     Fund Grant Agreement (April 18, 2001), Environmental Management Plan, Project Procurement
     Plan, Aide-Memoires, BTORs and PSRs (1 to 11). Other Bank documents: Quality of Supervision
     Assessment carried out by QAG in Sept. 2004; and Independent Procurement Review of the
     Project carried out in December 2004.

2.   Cleverly, Graham. Monthly and Quarterly Reports of the Project Manager (hired by KTA)

3.   Cryer, Martin (2002-2005) Independent Performance Review for the Gjakovë-Rahovec Water
     Supply Management Contract. Reports for the 1st to the 6th Contract Semester

4.   Gelsenwasser (2005 March) Kosovo Pilot Water Supply Project: Management Improvement Final
     Report. Additional reports, studies and operational information posted by GW can be viewed at
     http://finance.groups.yahoo.com/group/kosovopilotwatersupplyproject/

5.   KfW (2005) Spreadsheet with Project data on five town project

6.   KTA (2004 ­ 2005) Operational and Financial Monitoring Project. Performance Reports No. 1-6
     regarding the seven water utilities in Kosovo (prepared by Giel Verbeeck and Vera Muhaxhiri) (see
     http://finance.groups.yahoo.com/group/OFMP/for all documents)

7.   KTA (2005) Water Sector Conference: "Sustainable Water Sector in Kosovo ­ Roles and Tasks of
     the Stakeholders." Proceedings of the Conference held in Pristina on October 4-6, 2004

8.   Mueller-Vollmer, Jan David (2004) Gap Analysis of the former Master Plan

9.   Mueller-Vollmer, Jan David (2004) Strategy Baseline of EU water legislation

10.  Mueller-Vollmer, Jan David (2004) Terms of Reference for the preparation of a New Water
     Master Plan for Kosovo

11.  Performance-based Management Contract for the Gjakovë-Rahovec Water Supply Company
     between UNMIK and Gelsenwasser AG dated November 12, 2001 and Addenda

12.  Consultants Reports on Component 2: Integrated Water Resources Management:
     ·   Faulkner, Brian (2005 January) Component 2: Water Resources and Water Allocation Study
         Final Report
     ·   Faulkner, Brian (2005) SAFE (System Allocation and Failure Estimation) model for water
         allocations within the Deçan-Radoniqi catchment
     ·   Loudier, Daniel (2005) Development of Integrated Water Resources Planning In Kosovo:
         Capacity Building Development ­ Final Report




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Grant Recipient's Completion Report

The following is the Completion Report submitted by the Grant Recipient written by KTA on behalf on
UNMIK. The text of the report has not been edited by the Bank and represents the view of the KTA.




No.8 Ilir Konushevci Street (former United Nations Communication Compound, UNCC) Pristina Kosovo
Tel: ++381 38 500 400 101 Fax: ++ 381 38 248 076 E-mail: kta@eumik.org

KOSOVO PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DRAFT Final Report

1.       Project Objective


The main objective of the project was to support the participation of private reform in the water sector in
the Gjakova ­ Rahovec area, supporting urgent repairs to infrastructure and development of a model for
integrated water resources management in the Project area. The project aimed to improve:
·        The weak management capacity and inefficient operation through private sector participation in
         water sector with signing of a management contract with an international private sector operator in
         order to bring new management practices, such as demand management and modern management
         information systems;
·        Infrastructure which was in a very bad condition due to damage Radoniqi water supply system
         during the war and due to lack of regularly maintenance of the network; and
·        Management of water resources including water allocation mechanisms.

The project had the following components:
·        Component 1: Urban Water Supply Improvement Component (the main component of the project)
·        Component 2: Integrated Water Resources Management Component

2.       Summary of Project Progress

The summary of the project progress covers the results achieved:
a)       with involvement of Private Operator in Management of the Company;
b)       rehabilitation of Infrastructure; and
c)       management of water resources including water allocation mechanisms.

2.1      Management Contract

The successes and the weakness of the Management Contract (MC) are best represented in the Final Report
of Independent Reviewer. The views expressed in the Independent reviewer's final report as set out below
are fully supported by KTA.




                                                    - 31 -

***     Extract from Independent Reviewers Final Report            ***

Introduction

The MC dated 12 November 2001, had an effective date of 3 December 2001, and Gelsenwasser (GW)
commenced day to day running of HS Radoniqi on 18 February 2002. Addendum No.2 subsequently
extended their contract to 1 September 2004, and by Addendum No.4 to 15 January 2005.

The overall objectives of the management contract were:
i.      the sustainable and efficient provision of water supply services in Gjakove and Rahovec
ii.     the support of urgent repairs to the infrastructure
iii.    the demonstration of the viability of private sector participation in the provision of water supply
services

Progress

General

Substantial efforts by GW have been necessary to improve the situation that existed when they took over
the day-to-day management of HSR in February 2002. Not only was the financial situation poor, but also
in some cases there is a need to improve the working practices, the work ethic and performance of some of
the staff. The overall financial results and achievements are summarized in the following table and
demonstrate progress made towards becoming a sustainable and viable business (these have been replicated
in Annex 1, table 1.3).

The improvements in the working environment are noticeable. The offices are well decorated and clean.
New computer systems are installed and operating and the outside staff has company uniforms, which
provide a feeling of being part of a team. The meter reading teams have been reorganized and are
supervised. The survey department has been re-equipped and trained in the use of the equipment. Press
relations have been established and the public is made aware of the services that HSR are providing. When
there are problems with the water supply the public are told how these are being dealt with. An example of
this is the odor problem in the distributed water which occurred at the end of 2003 and which has
reappeared one year later. Complaints procedures are in place.

Operations

The progress made in the operations of HSR is summarized in the following table that highlights the most
important measurable performance indicators (a summary is given in Annex 1, table 1.3).

The table demonstrates the considerable progress has been made in metering, meter reading and the
collection of revenue from consumers. Over 9000 new meters have been installed and a programme of
meter refurbishment initiated in conjunction with the water company in Prizren, which has the facilities for
repair and calibration.

HSR now has a comprehensive database of all its customers that is updated regularly by its in-house teams
as inactive customers return and as new houses are completed. This has had a significant effect in
improving the efficiency of billing.




                                                    - 32 -

New billing and management systems are in place and being used on a regular basis. HSR staff has been
given on-the-job training in the use of the systems. Problems are still being experienced with the reading of
meters and hence the amount of receipts collected by the meter readers. This is a manual system that is
open to abuse by the meter readers. GW have made continuing efforts to improve this situation as it has a
direct effect on the company finances.

For the company to be financially viable, the Operating Ratio at the current turnover level needs to be in
the order of 1.40. The improvement in this indicator has been hampered for a number of reasons outside
the control of GW:

i.       Nonpayment of outstanding invoices by the municipalities/institutions for institutional consumption
         (hospital, schools, sports centers, etc), and for "social" cases. These organizations still owe in
         excess of 240,000.
ii.      Delays in the provision of assistance from the municipalities with the prevention of illegal
         consumption in more than 500 situations identified by HSR where meters have been bypassed.
iii.     Nonpayment for consumption in the Serb enclaves where there are approximately 350 households.
         A total of 8,328 is outstanding.
iv.      Delays in the completion of the capital works programme which would have reduced power
         consumption at the pumping stations, the use of chemicals at the water treatment plant, and
         reduced leakage by pipeline rehabilitation. These works were originally planned to be completed
         by November 2003 and are still not complete.
v.       The need to pay aged debts incurred before the start of the management contract from current
         revenues. GW had not been made aware of these debts at the time of tendering for the contract.
         These included pension contributions, VAT, electricity and chemicals. The payment of the aged
         debts has been the subject of various discussions and agreements since the start of the MC. The
         debts for pensions and VAT have been repaid but the payment of the chemicals and electricity is
         still the subject of on-going discussions and may continue to influence the financial position of
         HSR.
vi.      When the irrigation department was divested from HSR to form the independent irrigation
         company from 1 January 2003, HSR was reimbursed for the associated operational loss incurred
         by the department in 2002. The irrigation company was also allowed to take with it some 
         395,000 of accounts receivable which were strictly due to HSR. It currently owes HSR over 
         30,000.

The improvement in the Unbilled Water indicator has not been as originally expected. However, the figure
originally assessed, as a reasonable target for the 2nd semester was 50% proved to be much too low. At
the start of the MC, the operations tables produced indicate unbilled water levels in excess of 70%. To
date there has been a reduction of only just over 10% partly due to the delays in the capital works
programme, which has not reduced leakage/overflows as quickly as anticipated, and partly because of the
poor state of the distribution network.      There has not been a leakage detection programme as the
maintenance teams are fully occupied repairing visible leaks.        In addition, HSR does not have the
equipment to undertake leak detection on the system that is largely comprised of asbestos cement pipes.
This problem is to be addressed in the next phase of the MC.

The Investment Executed level was a victim of the serious devaluation of the US dollar against the  over
the contract period. At the start of the MC the exchange rate was US$1.00 = 0.89. The rate is currently
1.32 and this 48% devaluation has had a serious effect on the capital works programme as the WB grant
was fixed in dollars. The funding of a number of contracts had to be reviewed and rearranged. This


                                                     - 33 -

resulted in delays to the implementation programme. Further delays resulted from the time it took KTA's
design and site supervision consultant to produce the tender dossiers for the 8 works contracts, and the time
for awarding the contracts. These delays increased when KfW took over the funding of two of the works
contracts that necessitated the revision of the relevant tender dossiers. These factors have had a detrimental
effect on the financial situation of HSR, as expected operational efficiencies are taking longer to have an
effect than was expected originally.

Successes

·        Supply of water 24 hrs. a day throughout the service area
·        The unbundling of the irrigation department
·        The merger of the Rahovec and Lumbardhi water companies with HSR
·        Implementation of an efficient financial management system
·        Implementation of an efficient procurement system
·        Establishment of the customer database
·        Regular meter reading and billing
·        Major improvement in the number of consumers metered from 9355 at the start of the MC to
         nearly 17,000
·        The number of customers billed has increased from approximately 14,000 at the start of the
         contract to nearly 20,000
·        The collection ratio has improved from less than 60% to over 80%
·        Improvement in the financial position of HSR. The operating profit has risen from a loss of over 
         256,000 in 2001 to a profit of over 116,000 in 2004
·        Repayment of some aged debts dating from before the start of the MC
·        Establishment of business planning
·        The re-equipping and successful functioning of the survey department as demonstrated by the
         production of the GIS survey records. Over 60% of the network has been surveyed
·        Implementation of the human resources policy approved by the Supervisory Board
·        Implementation of the 1st phase of tariff increases
·        Initiation of effective public relations and complaints procedure.

Weaknesses

·        Tenderers for the MC should have been made aware of the need to repay aged debts for power,
         VAT, pensions and chemicals which affected the achievement of performance indicator targets.
·        Delay in the preparation of the tariff study and the refusal of the SB to accept the initial findings in
         Mary 2003 due to the high level of unbilled water (60.0%). There was only a small improvement
         (56.3%) one year later when the SB accepted most of the revised study recommendations. Earlier
         implementation of the new tariffs could have facilitated improved maintenance, increased
         repayment of aged debts and increased capital investment. The effect can be seen by the immediate
         improvement in the operating ratio as soon as the new tariffs came into force (5th semester 1.09,
         6th semester 1.37 when calculated on the same basis)
·        Lack of assistance from the major company shareholders, the municipalities of Gjakove and
         Rahovec, in preventing illegal consumption due to bypassed meters.
·        Nonpayment of major outstanding sums owed by the municipalities and institutions.
·        Poor performance by the KTA design and site supervision consultant, in the preparation of tender
         documents for the works contracts. This might have been improved by closer supervision.



                                                      - 34 -

·       Delays in the implementation of works contracts. When reviewed at the end of the 4th semester,
        these contracts should have been completed by March 2004. However, because of delays in
        awarding some of the contracts and the consequent extension of time into the winter period, the
        works programme will not be completed until at least mid-January 2005.
·       Slow payment of certified sums by KTA/Ministry of Finance.
·       Progress on the appointment of a local director who would take over the running of HSR at the end
        of the MC, even though this was not a requirement of the MC.

Conclusion

The initial contract period of 2 years was too short for a management contract in which to introduce all the
improvements necessary to the performance of HSR. Even by extending the contract period to 3 years it
has not yet been possible to convert the water company into a fully sustainable and viable business.
However, the success of the MC, which has resulted in a major improvement to all aspects of HSR, is
acknowledged by the willingness of KfW to provide further funding to the project over the next two years.

***     End of extract from IR's final report ***

2.2     Rehabilitation of Infrastructure

Infrastructure in the Project Area prior to the project was in a very bad condition due to the damages during
the war and due to lack of regular maintenance of the network. Through the Works Contracts the project
had a positive impact on the water supply network, in particular:
·       Situation of saving water which was leaking through the destroyed old gates to the Intake of
        Deqani River and the gates to the lake which were rehabilitated with work contract.
·       24 h of water supply with efficient pressure in Gjakova
·       Water supply in some villages in the Lumbardhi region, which were suffering from water shortages
        lasting for weeks in summer.
·       Water supply in Rahaovec with installation of new power line for pumps.
·       Operation Ratio
·       Unbilled water

2.3     Management of water resources

The second component of the Project and the aim of this contract is to make the studies: Bathymetric study
of Radoniqi Reservoir to accurately establish its capacity, hydro meteorological data collection in the Drini
i Bardhe river basin, advanced statistical analyses of river flow data to determine drought frequencies and
quantities, modeling and yield analyses of the reservoir under various operating scenarios, with forecasts of
operational water requirements for irrigation and potable water for planning horizons of 5, 15 and 30 years.


This study includes a comprehensive software model has laid the technical foundation for integrated water
resource management in the project area. A study of this scope and depth has not been executed for any of
the other river basins in Kosovo. Therefore the project area is going to play a main role in the future
development of integrated water resource management in Kosovo. The study was represented to the MESP
staff and was very well accepted as a good model to be use to the other companies as well.




                                                     - 35 -

A summary of the all the goods, works and consulting services contracts in the project, including: (i) the
name of the contractor/consultant; (ii) the value of the works; (iii) the start and completion dates for the
contracts; and (iv) the final financial situation of project budget is available in the project file.

3.      Conclusions

In conclusion it is KTA's view that the pilot project has made a significant contribution to private sector
participation in the water sector in Kosovo. Radoniqi Water Company with the support of the Private
Operator, whilst not yet fully sustainable, has demonstrated several benefits already including better
financial management, improved service to the Rahovec area, and the implementation of several capital
investments.

The successful completion of a two-year extension to the Management contract with Gelsenwasser funded
by KfW in January 2005, demonstrates that this 3 year pilot project has been worthwhile despite several
shortcomings (e.g., the relatively short length of original Management contract) and that this project given
time will result in a useful model for possible future extension of the PSP in Kosovo.

KTA's overall conclusions of the World Bank funded pilot project are:
·       The water pilot project, whilst not yet fully sustainable, has been a success overall and made a
        significant contribution to the role of the private sector in reform of the Kosovo water sector.
·       The funding of the project in USD (not euros) resulted in major funding uncertainties through out
        the second half of the project as a result of a declining USD vs euro. Future projects funded by WB
        in Kosovo should recognize the euro as the basis for any funding.
·       The original Management contract (two years, extended to three years) was too short for the
        project to be fully sustainable. Normally Management Contract are five years minimum.
·       There should have been emphasis in the original project for counterpart training both within the
        MC and within the project management by KTA;
·       KTA management of the Project in its early days was given insufficient attention by previous KTA
        staff and resulted in avoidable delays in procurement certification of invoices and strategic
        direction.
·       The participation of KfW with additional parallel funding towards the end of the project enabled
        the main components of the project to be implemented and the components which were deleted
        (e.g., willingness to pay study) or reduced in scale (e.g., the water resources study) in late 2003 to
        reduce the cost of the project were not detrimental to the overall success of the project.
·       The support by KfW through a two-year MC to GW and accompanying measures including
        further capital investment in HSR has consolidated the benefits of the WB funded pilot project.




                                                       - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Executive Summary of Health Impact Study Conducted by AISA

 Executive Summary of Health Impact Study Conducted by AISA (Spanish NGO) in June
                                                2005
1. Objective of study

The objective of the study was to evaluate and follow up the impact of the Project for the
restoration of the Gjakovë and Rahovec water supply and sanitation systems.

2. Background

The Report Kosovo Pilot Water Supply Environmental Health Assessment for Gjakovë and
Rahovec Area 2002 was carried out after performing two missions in Kosovo in October 2001
and March 2002.

3. Introduction

·       The identification of the different causes concerns to the epidemiological surveillance
system through the analysis of individual or collective cases that are used to reject or confirm their
relation with a potential source.

·        The joint evaluation of the data provided by the Water Surveillance System and the
Epidemiological Surveillance System is essential for the evaluation of the investments performed
in the Radoniqi system.

·       The short time-span elapsed between the performance of some improvements (2004) and
the edition of this report will prevent the analysis of their long-term effects, although it is possible
to make a global evaluation of the efficacy of the investments using parameters such as
maintenance of preventive measurements (chlorination), the increase in the population supplied by
the network, reduction of outbreaks, estimation of attributable or relative risks when compared
with the population that is supplied form other water sources such as wells. This methodology
relies on the data supplied by the IPHs, H. Radoniqi and other Institutions (UNMIK, UNFPA,
OSCE, etc.)

4. Findings

·       Hidrosistemi Radoniqi supply around 200,000 citizens. In 2001 the Treatment Plant
Gjakovë produce about 1800 m3/h while in 2005 this quantity is 2600 m3/h. In Rahovec arrived
in 2001 about 200 m3/h while in 2005 this quantity is 800 m3/h

·       The continuity of the supply has improved by increasing the pressure throughout the
network and by improving: The tanks, station pump, installation of new steel tubes, electric
connection in station pump, reinforcement of the system feed-pumps, filtering station,

·       The chlorination is mainly maintained throughout the system and the water supply of the



                                                 - 37 -

urban population of Gjakovë and Rahovec has got adequate health safety requirements.

·      No water-related outbreaks have been recorded in the area supplied by Radoniqi.

·      Water-related diseases were reduced in 2004 when compared with 2001 records. Most of
them are caused by the consumption of polluted water from wells located in areas not supplied by
Radoniqi.

5. Analysis

The project has been successful in providing water with enough quantity and quality and has
granted population health in the area of Radoniqui regarding water-related diseases.

6. Conclusion

The investment has determined a positive impact in most of the parameters that have been
considered.




                                              - 38 -

Additional Annex 10. Maps of Kosovo

Map of Kosovo and the Project Area




                                      - 39 -

Map of the Water Supply Network




                                   - 40 -

- 41 -

