Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024792
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Kosovo Pilot Water Supply Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator for the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
Dated April 18, 2001
TF024792
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of April 18, 2001, between UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (Bank) and the International Development Association, acting on the 
recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, decided on September 30, 1999, to 
transfer from Bank surplus, by way of grant, $25,000,000 to a trust fund (the Trust 
Fund) for Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo), 
established by Resolutions of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 
99-7) and the International Development Association (Resolution No. IDA 99-4), to be 
administered by the Administrator, to be used for financing an emergency 
reconstruction program in the territory of Kosovo; 
(B)
the Board of Governors of the Bank further decided on September 27, 2000, 
to transfer from Bank surplus, an additional amount of $35,000,000 (Additional 
Contribution) to the Trust Fund;
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
Page  2
the Administrator to assist, from the Additional Contribution, in the financing the 
Project; and
(D)
by an agreement dated November 26, 1999 between Kreditanstalt für 
Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the water supply entities of Prizren, Suharekë, Rahovec, 
Gjakovë and Pejë, represented by the Recipient (the KfW Grant Agreement), the KfW has 
agreed to make a grant to the Recipient in an amount of nine million three hundred 
thousand Deutsche Marks (DM 9,300,000) (the KfW Grant) to assist in financing Part A 
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the KfW Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions (the General Conditions) set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Management Contract” means the agreement to be entered between the 
Recipient, the Project Water Company, and a private operator to be selected by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Service 
Agreement;
(b)
“Project Management Report” or “PMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(c)  "Project Water Company" means the Gjakovë-Rahovec Water Supply Company, a 
water public utility service provider, organized and established pursuant to the 
Administrative Instruction issued by the Public Utilities Department of the United 
Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo, on 5 December 2000, and operating on the 
basis of its charter dated 7 December, 2000, and registered with the Public Utilities 
Department on 11 December 2000, or any successor or successors thereto;
(d)
“Service Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the Project Water Company, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the Service Agreement; and
(e) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on a 
grant basis and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, a grant in the amount of four million six hundred thousand Dollars 
($4,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule Error! Not a valid link. to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made), 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and works required for the 
Page  3
Project.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be January 15, 2004, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall implement the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
dam safety and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, in 
accordance with this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 and 
except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall enter into a service agreement (the Service Agreement) with the Project Water 
Company, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, which shall 
include provisions regarding the Project Water Company responsibility for Project 
implementation and reporting requirements.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Service Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Service Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 and 
except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall enter into a Project management contract (the Management Contract) with the 
Project Water Company and a private operator with international expertise to be 
selected by the Recipient in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, which shall include provisions 
regarding Project Water Company responsibility for Project implementation, preparation 
of investment plans and reporting requirements.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Management Contract in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Management 
Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 and except 
as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall:  
(a) undertake annual reviews by qualified dam safety experts of the Radoniqui dam and 
its related structures, and operation and maintenance procedures, to determine whether 
there are any deficiencies in the condition of said dam or structures, or in the 
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation thereof, which may 
endanger the safety of the Radoniqui dam; 
(b)
promptly report the findings and recommendations of such experts to the 
Administrator; and
(c)
ensure that the Radoniqui dam is thereafter maintained and operated in 
accordance with the findings and recommendations of such experts, and sound 
engineering and dam safety practices, under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Page  4
Administrator.
Section 3.05. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 1.23 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators agreed upon 
from time to time between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about 
August 31, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant 
to subparagraph (i) above, on the progress achieved in 
the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Administrator, by October 31, 2002, or such later 
date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred 
to in subparagraph 
(ii) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the 
Administrator’s views on the matter.
(b)
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between 
the Recipient and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Recipient shall:
(i)
ensure that the records, accounts, including the records and 
accounts for 
the Special Account, and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal 
year are audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards 
acceptable to the Administrator consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts, and report 
Page  5
of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail 
as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested by 
the Administrator; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall 
ensure that:
(i)
in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures are maintained;
(ii)
until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures are retained; 
(iii)
the Administrator’s representatives are able to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than September 
30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant during 
the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Administrator and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 1.15 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Service Agreement or the Management Contract shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
Page  6
ability of the parties thereto to perform any of the obligations under this Agreement; 
(b)
the parties to the Service Agreement shall have failed to perform any of 
their  material obligations thereunder; and
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (c) the right of 
the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the KfW Grant 
shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the KfW Agreement 
providing therefor;
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Administrator that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Recipient 
to perform any of its obligations under the KfW Agreement; 
and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01.  This Agreement shall enter into effect upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 6.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties have fulfilled their obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations for Kosovo is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes 
of any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement referred to 
in Section 1.28 of the General Conditions, and the Deputy Special Representative of 
the Secretary-General, Head of UNMIK Pillar IV, Economic Reconstruction and 
Development is designated as representative of the Recipient for any other actions 
referred to in Section 1.28 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1.25 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
UNMIK Pristina
c/o UN Liaison Office in Skopje
M.H. Jasmin BB
ZGRABA NA NIP NOVA
Macedonia
9100 Skopje
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Facsimile:
21 963-8113
21 963-8603
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, as 
of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By /s/ Hans Haekkerup
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocations of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  1,050,000
100%
 
(2)
Works
  1,150,000
100%
(3)
Management Fee
  2,000,000
100%
(4)
Consultants’ services   350,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
    50,000
TOTAL
 4,600,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Management Fee” means the fee and 
other payments to be paid by the Recipient under the terms of the Management Contract 
to the private international operator.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) contracts for goods, costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for services of individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for works, costing less than $200,000, all 
Page  8
under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The overall objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to test the 
reform in the water sector in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area of Kosovo, and, specifically 
to: (a) ensure the sustainable and efficient provision of water services; (b) support 
urgent repairs to the water system infrastructure; (c) demonstrate the viability of 
private sector participation in the provision of water services; and (d) develop a 
model for integrated water resources management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply Improvement
1.
Urgent Infrastructure Repairs
Repairs to the water supply system in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area to address urgent 
problems caused by lack of maintenance and damage from recent conflict, through the 
financing of goods and works.
2.
Management Improvement
Improvement of the efficiency of water services in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area, 
including improvement in the operational and financial management, through the 
financing of performance-based management by a private international operator, and 
consultants services.
3.
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
The rehabilitation of the water supply system in the Gjakovë-Rahovec area to 
address medium term infrastructure improvement needs, based on work plans, budgets and 
proposals to be developed by the private international operator, through the financing 
of goods, works and services.
Part B:
Integrated Resources Management
Development of a framework for integrated water resources management, with focus 
on water allocation issues, through the financing of consulting services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 15, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods, works and performance-based services shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and 
performance-based services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  9
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for Part B and the first contract under Part C.1 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
Page  10
following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines,  shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $750,000, 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
Page  11
equivalent to $450,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish 
to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Administrator 
from the Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.06 through 1.14 V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.15 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 1.07 of the General Conditions, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  12
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
General Conditions
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions 
applicable to this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
(a)
“Administrator” means the International Development Association, acting 
as administrator of the Trust Fund.
(b)
“Grant” means the grant provided for in this Agreement.
(c)
“Dollars” and the sign “$” mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
(d) 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited.
(e)
“Project” means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
(f)
“Taxes” includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
(g)
“Closing Date” means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
Page  13
the Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
Section 1.03. Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
Section 1.04. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are 
payable. 
Section 1.05.  Valuation of Currencies 
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
Section 1.06.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, except for the territory of Kosovo, or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 1.07.  Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient’s request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the 
Recipient.
Section 1.08.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 
1.06 of the General Conditions, the Recipient, or the person designated under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement, shall deliver to the Administrator a written application in 
such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the documentation required 
therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
Section 1.09.  Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has 
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be 
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; 
and
Page  14
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 1.10.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person.
Section 1.11.  Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
Section 1.12.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
Section 1.13.  Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the 
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in this 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator.
Section 1.14.  Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 1.15.  Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section shall have occurred. 
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall 
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or 
events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the 
Administrator shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has 
been restored in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 1.16.  Cancellation by the Administrator
Page  15
If (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant or, (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
Section 1.17.  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or 
Suspension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 1.07 of the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such 
commitment.
Section 1.18.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Agreement.
Section 1.19.  Cooperation and Information
(a)
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that 
the purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with 
regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes 
of the Grant, and the 
performance of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement; and 
furnish to the other party 
all such information related thereto as it shall 
reasonably request; 
and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or 
threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) 
above.
Section 1.20.  Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 1.21.  Use of Goods, Works and Services
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Page  16
Section 1.22.  Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
Section 1.23.  Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods, works or services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the 
Administrator’s representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites 
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods, works and services financed out of such 
proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description 
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and 
the contract price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under this Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 1.24.  Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 1.25.  Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly 
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights 
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 1.26.  Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Delivery made by facsimile transmission shall be confirmed by mail.
Section 1.27.  Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
Page  17
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 1.28.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 1.29.  Settlement of Disputes
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement, which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Section 1.30.  Execution in Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
