                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                               Report No: ICR00003144




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (PROJECT NO: P110207-UG)

                                         ON A
                                   CREDIT (IDA-44820)

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.20 MILLION
                             (USD10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND A
                                    GRANT (TF-92919)

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 2.00 MILLION

                                        TO
                              THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                      FOR THE

    AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE PROJECT
                            UNDER THE
       GLOBAL PROGRAM FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN
                PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE


                                       June 30, 2014



Agriculture, Rural Development and Irrigation Unit (AFTAI-3)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCE1
Africa Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2014)

                           Currency Units US$ 1 = 2,546.74 SHS

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1–June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHI           Avian and Human Influenza
BSL           Bio-Safety Level
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
ESMP          Environment and Social Management Plan
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
GPAI          Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
              Preparedness
GPS           Global Positioning System
GOU           Government of Uganda
HPAI          Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA           International Development Association
IDSR          Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response
INAP          Integrated National Action Plan
ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report
MAAIF         Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH           Ministry of Health
MUWRP         Makerere University Walter Reed Project
NTF/AI        National Task Force on Avian Influenza
OIE           Office International des Epizooties (World Organization for Animal Health)
OP            Operational Policy
OPM           Office of the Prime Minister
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SHS           Uganda Shillings
UNICEF        United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
USD           United States Dollar
UNHRO         Uganda National Health Research Organization
WHO           World Health Organization

Vice President                              Makhtar Diop
Country Director/Country Manager            Philippe Dongier/Ahmadou M. Ndiaye
Sector Manager/Sector Director              Tijan Sallah/Jamal Saghir
Project Team Leader                         Abel Lufafa
ICR Team Leader                             Abel Lufafa
ICR Principal Author                        Eustacius Betubiza
                                             ii
                                        Republic of Uganda
                    Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                                           CONTENTS

DATA SHEET
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring (if any)
  I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................................. 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................. 4 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 11 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 16 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 16 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 18 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 19 
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 20 
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ................................................................................................. 21 
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 25 
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................ 28 
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 30 
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 36 




                                                                     iii
                                    Republic of Uganda
                Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project

A. Basic Information
                                                                                   Avian and Human Influenza
Country:                            Uganda               Project Name:             Preparedness and Response
                                                                                   Project
Project ID:                         P110207              L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44820; TF-92919
ICR Date:                           02/28/2014           ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:                 SIL                  Recipient:                Government of Uganda
Original Total Commitment:          USD12.0 Million      Disbursed Amount:         USD10.63 Million
Environmental Category:              B
Implementing Agency: Office of the Prime Minister; Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries; and
Ministry of Health
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: 1) European Union (through the African Union – International Bureau of
Animal Resources: Support Programme for Integrated National Action Plans – AU-IBAR SPINAP; 2) United States
Agency for International Development); 3) Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta; 4) Institute of Animal Health,
Pirbright

B. Key Dates
      Process              Date               Process             Original Date       Revised / Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:        28-Mar-2008 Effectiveness:             09-Jan-2009           03-Dec-2009
                                                                                    11-Jun-2012
Appraisal:             09-May-2008 Restructuring(s):
                                                                                    10-Jun-2013
Approval:              19-Jun-2008 Mid-term Review:           30-Jun-2011           11-Aug-2011
                                     Closing:                 30-Jun-2012           31-Dec-2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Moderate
Bank Performance:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
            Bank                   Ratings                    Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Moderately Satisfactory Government:                   Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:    Moderately Satisfactory Implementing Agency/Agencies: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Bank Performance: Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Performance: Moderately Satisfactory




                                                        iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
       Implementation Performance                Indicators                  QAG Assessments (if any)     Rating
Potential Problem Project at any time (Yes/No): Yes                        Quality at Entry:
Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):            Yes                       Quality of Supervision:
PDO rating before Closing/Inactive status        Moderately Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)                                    Original               Actual
AJ Animal Production and Fishing                                               73.0%                  62.0%
JA Health                                                                      27.0%                  38.0%
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
79 Other Rural Development                                                     73.0%                  62.0%
64 Other Communicable Diseases                                                 27.0%                  38.0%

E. Bank Staff
                      Positions         At ICR                                   At Approval
                 Vice President:        Makhtar Diop                             Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
               Country Director:        Philippe Dongier                         John M. McIntire
                Sector Manager:         Tijan Sallah                             Karen M. Brooks
         Project Team Leader:           Abel Lufafa                              Wilson. O. Odwongo
              ICR Team Leader:          Abel Lufafa
            ICR Primary Author:         Eustacius Betubiza

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators(as approved)

Project Development Objective

The overall development objective was to substantially reduce the threat posed to the poultry
industry and humans in Uganda by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza infection and other
zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and respond effectively to future avian and human influenza
pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in livestock and humans.

Key Indicators

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

       Indicator      Baseline Value         Original Target Values         Formally      Actual Value
                                                (from approval               Revised       Achieved at
                                                  documents)                  Target      Completion or
                                                                              Values      Target Years
   Indicator (1):     Increased percentage of annual suspected HPAI cases in poultry reported and fully
                      investigated (both laboratory and field) in ten high risk districts
             Value:             0                      80%                                     100%

                                                           v
         Date:        31-Dec-2009               31-Dec-2009                               31-Dec-2013
     Comments:     The Project has supported investigations for Trans-boundary Animal Diseases and other
                   zoonotic diseases throughout the country

  Indicator (2):   Proportion of veterinary facilities with capacity to diagnose HPAI in at-risk districts
         Value:             0                          80%                                           75%
          Date:        31-Dec-2009                31-Dec-2009                                   31-Dec-2013
    Comments:      Laboratories in 15 at risk districts were supplied with rapid detection kits that screen
                   influenza type A

  Indicator (3):   Percentage of districts with sufficient stocks of personal protection equipment,
                   disinfection units, burdizzos, and asphyxiation systems
        Value:               0                      100%                                         100%
         Date:         31-Dec-2009               31-Dec-2009                                  31-Dec-2013
     Comments:     Personal Protection Equipment, burdizzos and asphyxiation units were procured and all
                   items, with exception of the asphyxiation units, distributed throughout the country. The
                   asphyxiation units held at MAAIF will be dispatched in case of an outbreak

  Indicator (4):   Percentage of commercial poultry farms, poultry slaughter facilities, and live bird
                   markets practicing acceptable bio-security standards
        Value:              0                      60%                                          63%
         Date:        31-Dec-2009              31-Dec-2009                                 31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

  Indicator (5):   Percentage of veterinary facilities meeting standards for diagnostics of the World
                   Organization for Animal Health (OIE)
        Value:            30%                       100%                                        75%
         Date:        31-Dec-2009                31-Dec-2009                                31-Dec-2013
     Comments:     Three out of four veterinary diagnostic laboratories meet the standards

(b) Output Indicator(s)

      Indicator    Baseline Value         Original Target Values             Formally           Actual Value
                                          (from approval                      Revised            Achieved at
                                          documents)                           Target          Completion or
                                                                               Values           Target Years
     Indicator:    Number of districts reporting promptly on veterinary services
         Value:               0                         40                                            83
          Date:        31-Dec-2009                31-Dec-2009                                   31-Dec-2013
     Comments:     E-reporting is operational in all districts (112 districts have been supplied with modems
                   and 30 districts have been supplied with computers and their accessories). Currently all
                   districts in the country have a functional computer set for data capturing

     Indicator:    Number of districts with adequate GPS equipment and transport facilities for HPAI
                   control
         Value:               0                      112 GPS                                    94 GPS
                                                   48 Transport                               48 Transport
         Date:         31-Dec-2009                31-Dec-2009                                31-Dec-2013
     Comments:     Ten high risk districts have been supplied with 4 wheel Double Cabin pickups, and 48
                   districts that lacked transport have been provided with a motorcycle each. The number of
                   districts has increased through splitting, hence only 94 GPS pieces, versus 112 districts.
                   Some districts will be covered by GPS equipment from neighbouring ones

     Indicator:    The curricula at Makerere University Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and para-

                                                        vi
              veterinary schools reviewed
   Value:               0                         3                                            3
    Date:         31-Dec-2009                31-Dec-2009                                  31-Dec-2013
Comments:     There are three institutions covered which are offering certificates, diplomas and degrees.
              All curricula reviewed by a consulting firm and final report presented to MAAIF.

Indicator:    Number of sero-prevalence surveys of HPAI and emerging zoonotic diseases
    Value:             0                       6                                          8
     Date:        31-Dec-2009            31-Dec-2009                                31-Dec-2013
Comments:     Surveys have been undertaken for HPAI and other non-zonootic diseases e.g. Pestes des
              Petits Ruminants, Foot-and-Mouth Disease, Anthrax, and Contagious Bovine
              Pleuropneumonia

Indicator:    Full diagnostic competence at MAAIF veterinary laboratory for HPAI differential
              diagnosis
   Value:             None                      Full                                      Partial
    Date:        31-Dec-2009                31-Dec-2009                                31-Dec-2013
Comments:     Full diagnostic competence will be achieved after the recently completed BSL-3
              laboratory is fully operational

Indicator::   Five high risk districts with active community based surveillance system
     Value:             0                        5                                       2
      Date:      31-Dec-2009               31-Dec-2009                              31-Dec-2013
Comments:     Community based surveillance systems have been established in Busia and Tororo
              Districts

Indicator:    Percentage of commercial poultry farms and breeders registered
    Value:           0%                    100%                                            100%
     Date:       31-Dec-2009            31-Dec-2009                                     31-Dec-2013
Comments:

Indicator:    Percentage of districts linked to an incident command system established within the
              National Veterinary System for the management of logistics at all levels
   Value:           None                      100%                                     100%
    Date:        31-Dec-2009               31-Dec-2009                             31-Dec-2013
Comments:

Indicator:    Number of updated HPAI protocols, Standard Operating Procedures, and case
              definitions printed and distributed
   Value:              0                        3                                        3
    Date:        31-Dec-2009              31-Dec-2009                              31-Dec-2013
Comments:     Standard Operating Procedures for reporting between MAAIF and other line ministries
              have been developed and disseminated to the relevant audiences

Indicator:    Number of veterinary policies (e.g. Compensation policy) adopted by Cabinet
    Value:            0                        1                                             0
     Date:       31-Dec-2009             31-Dec-2009                                    31-Dec-2013
Comments:     The compensation policy has been drafted, but still awaits cabinet adoption

Indicator:    Number of quarantine centres and checkpoints renovated and operationalized
    Value:            0.0                       4                                    5
     Date:       31-Dec-2009               31-Dec-2009                         31-Dec-2013
Comments:     Five quarantine centres and 40 check points operationalized

Indicator:    Percentage of districts with preparedness and response plans for HPAI
                                                  vii
        Value:           30%                     50%                                        92%
         Date:       31-Dec-2009             31-Dec-2009                                31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Percentage of districts reporting data on influenza-like illness using the weekly
                  Integrated District Reporting System
        Value:            0.0                     50%                                        100%
         Date:       31-Dec-2009              31-Dec-2009                                 31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Number of epidemiological mapping exercises of avian and human influenza risk
                  factors undertaken in high risk districts
        Value:             0                       10                                   14
         Date:       31-Dec-2009             31-Dec-2009                           31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Proportion of districts with bulletins/Integrated District Reporting System feedback
                  reports
        Value:           2.6%                      63%                                      100%
         Date:       31-Dec-2009              31-Dec-2009                               31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Proportion of regional referral hospitals with bulletins/Integrated District Reporting
                  System feedback reports
        Value:           15%                      54%                                       100%
         Date:       31-Dec-2009              31-Dec-2009                               31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Cumulative percentage of districts with trained Rapid Response Teams
         Value:         42.5                    100%                                    97%
          Date:     31-Dec-2009             31-Dec-2009                             31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Health personnel receiving training (number)
         Value:           0                       250                                       250
          Date:     31-Dec-2009              31-Dec-2009                                31-Dec-2013
     Comments:

     Indicator:   Percentage of population reporting awareness of avian and human influenza
                  activities
        Value:            78%                    65%                                    85%
         Date:        31-Dec-2009            31-Dec-2009                            31-Dec-2013
     Comments:




Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and
Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

Revised PDO

No revisions

                                                    viii
Revised project outcome indicators and targets

None

G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR)

ISR    Date          PDO                         IP                              *Actual
No.                                                                           Disbursements
                                                                              USD Millions
01     Dec-01-2008   Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0
02     May-15-2009   Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory              0
03     Nov-28-2009   Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory              0
04     May-31-2010   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory   0
05     Aug-19-2010   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory   2.31
06     Mar-31-2011   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory   5.91
07     Oct-19-2011   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory     7.36
08     May-23-2012   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory     8.38
09     Jun-29-2012   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory     9.06
10     Jan-11-2013   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory     9.06
11     Oct-04-2013   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory     10.26
*Disbursements include both the Credit and the Grant

H. Restructuring (if any)

There were two minor restructurings, both relating to extending the closing date. Under the first
extension, the project’s closing date was extended from June 30, 2012, to June 30, 2013, to make
up for lost time between Board and Effectiveness. Under the second extension, the project’s
closing date was extended for an additional 6 months, from June 30, 2013 to December 31, 2013
to allow for bringing to an orderly conclusion the then on-going civil works pertaining to
upgrading two laboratories to BSL-3 (one for the National Disease Diagnostic and Epidemiology
Centre, and another for the Uganda Virus Research Institute). The extension also allowed for the
completion of the construction of an isolation unit at Entebbe Grade B Hospital.




                                                 ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
                                  Republic of Uganda
              Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.    When the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) epidemic broke out in Asia in 2003,
Uganda was among the Sub-Saharan Africa countries at high risk of an outbreak principally
because of: (i) high prevalence of backyard and/or free-range poultry rearing in the majority of
rural Ugandan households; (ii) significant movement of poultry and/or poultry products across
Uganda’s border; (iii) high prevalence of unregulated trading in poultry in most rural and urban
markets; and (iv) the existence of major routes for wild migratory birds within the country’s
borders where large masses of water facilitated close interaction between wild birds and
domestic poultry.

2.     From October 2005, the Government of Uganda (GOU) started to actively work on
prevention, preparedness and response to the threat. A comprehensive and multi-sectoral
National Task Force on Avian Influenza (NTF/AI), co-chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Industry, and Fisheries (MAAIF) and the Ministry of Health (MOH), was established.
The NTF/AI developed a national strategy and an action plan against the threat which was
endorsed by Cabinet in April 2006. In April 2007, GOU requested the World Bank to coordinate
a multi-donor rapid assessment of its action plan to bring it in line with international technical
standards and assist in mobilizing the necessary resources from development partners. The
resulting Integrated National Action Plan (INAP) was budgeted at US$14.6 million over five
years.

3.     In the meantime, the Bank's Board of Executive Directors had, in January 2006, endorsed
the Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and
Response (GPAI) to allow countries access to funding for strengthening their veterinary and
health services in order to deal with avian influenza outbreaks among animals, minimize the
threat to people, and prepare for, and respond to, any potential human influenza pandemic.
Operations benefiting from GPAI would be processed under emergency procedures to allow
quick preparation and approval. All developing countries were eligible to receive financing
under this program, which allowed for the use of up to US$1 billion in loans from IBRD, and in
credits or grants from the Bank's concessional lending arm, the International Development
Association (IDA). In addition, an Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF) was created to
assist developing countries in meeting financing gaps in their integrated country programs to
minimize the risk and socioeconomic impact of avian and possible human pandemic influenza.
In many cases, the facility would co-finance projects funded under GPAI, although self-standing
projects could also be financed, especially to promote action in countries that were behind in
their preparedness.

4.   It is against this backdrop that the World Bank accepted the Government’s request for
support, and prepared an emergency operation of US$12 million in support of Government’s
INAP, US$ 10 million as an IDA credit and US$ 2 million as an AHIP grant (with the rest of the

                                                1
funding gap for the INAP filled by Government and other development partners). At appraisal in
May 2008, avian influenza had not reached Uganda, although the threat remained real, especially
with the reported outbreak in 2007 of HPAI in Juba, South Sudan, which was close to Uganda’s
northern border and with which there was considerable formal and informal cross-border trade.
Although not formally part of the 2004-2008 CAS, the project was nonetheless consistent with
its ideals of inclusive economic growth and social protection.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

Original development objective

5.     The overall development objective was to substantially reduce the threat posed to the
poultry industry and humans in Uganda by HPAI infection and other zoonoses and to prepare
for, control, and respond effectively to future avian and human influenza pandemics and other
infectious disease emergencies in livestock and humans. To achieve this, support would be
provided in three main areas: (i) preparedness and prevention, (ii) outbreak response and
recovery; and (iii) coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

Original key performance indicators

6.     The key outcome indicators from the Results Matrix are:

(i)    The percentage of annual suspected HPAI cases in poultry reported and fully investigated
       (both laboratory and field) in ten high risk districts increases from 0 to 80;1

(ii)   The proportion of veterinary facilities with capacity to diagnose HPAI in at-risk districts
       increases from 0 to 80;

(iii) The percentage of districts with sufficient stocks of personal protective equipment,
      disinfection units, burdizzos, and asphyxiation systems increases from 0 to 100;

(iv) The percentage of commercial poultry farms, poultry slaughter facilities, and live bird
     markets practicing acceptable bio-security standards increases from 0 to 60; and

(v)    The percentage of veterinary facilities meeting World Organization for Animal Health
       (OIE) standards for diagnosis increases from 0 to 100.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

Revised PDO

7.     No revisions

Revised project outcome indicators and targets

1
 There were largely border districts where cross border transmission was most likely to occur (Arua, Bugiri,
Bukedea, Hoima, Isingiro, Kabale, Kitgum, Kotido, and Tororo).

                                                         2
8.    No revisions

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.    The primary target group of the project consisted of: (i) staff of Government ministries
and agencies involved in animal and human health, especially those in charge of surveillance and
treatment of people and animals under risk of exposure to avian influenza and threats from other
zoonoses; and (ii) the general public, especially people engaged in the production, transportation,
processing and distribution of poultry and their products.

1.5 Original Components

10. The project had four components: (i) animal health; (ii) human health; (iii) communication;
and (iv) coordination, and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).

11. Animal Health: This component aimed at supporting: (i) overall institutional
strengthening for animal disease prevention and control; (ii) national avian and human influenza
prevention and control strategies over the short- and medium-term; (iii) strengthening the
capacity of the national veterinary service to cope with an HPAI epidemic and new emerging
infectious diseases; and (iv) increased monitoring and surveillance of migratory and resident
birds.

12. Human Health: This component aimed at supporting: (i) building the health system’s
capacity to detect avian and human influenza early, and to respond and contain the infection at
the source; (ii) adapting guidelines and training materials (including infection control
guidelines); and (iii) training, activating, and strengthening national and district Rapid Response
Teams (RRT), establishing isolation units, upgrading laboratories, and pre-positioning personal
protective equipment, supplies and medicines.

13. Communication: This component aimed at, inter alia, providing funds to: (i) fill strategic
information gaps; (ii) enhance the communication skills of key policy makers and spokespersons
through training; (iii) establish communication centres within the coordination/operation centres
at the central and district levels; (iv) mount media campaigns on avian and human influenza; and
(v) train farmers and households with backyard poultry, local government officials, and religious
and cultural leaders on the risks of avian influenza.

14. Coordination, Monitoring &Evaluation: This component aimed at supporting
implementation costs associated with project planning, coordination, management, as well as
overall monitoring and evaluation at the national and district levels. The support was to be
provided to the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM), MAAIF, and MOH for the operational costs
of the National Project Steering Committee, NTF/AI, Technical Working Groups, Project
Coordination Team, and the Rapid Response Teams.




                                                 3
1.6 Revised Components

15. There were no formal revisions to the components, although the scope of work in some
activities was adjusted to respond to the availability of funds or evolving needs. For instance,
although six isolation facilities had been envisaged under the project (Arua, Gulu, Mbale,
Mulago Hospital, Entebbe Grade B Hospital, and Fort Portal), only one (Entebbe Grade B
Hospital) was constructed due to insufficient funds.2 Also, since there was no HPAI outbreak in
the country, funding that had been earmarked for immediate response to an outbreak was
reallocated to other project activities.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

16. Extension of Closing Date. The Project became effective on December 03, 2009 – a little
over 17 months after approval by the Bank on June 19, 2008. This was primarily due to delays
in securing Parliamentary approval of the IDA Credit. Mainly as a result of this initial delay in
effectiveness, the project closing date was extended (twice) for a total of 18 months to allow
completion of project activities, especially those related to civil works.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

i) Soundness of the background analysis supporting the project, lessons learned
incorporated, and the rationale for the Bank’s intervention

17. Soundness of Background Analysis. The extent of the threat facing the country was well
analyzed, on the basis of the information available at the time. There was also a sound analysis
of Government’s efforts to improve preparedness and response capability. However, the
assessment of on-going or imminent interventions and the implications for the project could have
been more comprehensive. For instance, on May 7, 2008, a Bio-Safety Laboratory -2 (BSL-2)
facility at Makerere University, financed under Makerere University-Walter Reed Project
(MUWRP), was opened, after full refurbishment of equipment and provision of necessary
training, enabling researchers to analyze influenza samples, including those taken through a
migratory bird surveillance program3. In addition, MUWRP had identified a number of
waterfowl roosting sites and instituted a surveillance regime, with samples being collected from
these sites during migration periods4. There was also some distribution of personal protective
equipment conducted mid-2007 by USAID, accompanied by training on their use,
decontamination protocols, rapid testing, etc. These and other activities could have been more
closely examined during project appraisal, and their complementarity with the new project

2
  It was indicated at project closing that Government would explore other sources to fund the construction of the
Mulago Hospital isolation facility (possibly from the African Development Bank).
3
  This up-grading of an existing Makerere laboratory had been supported by the U.S. Department of Defense’s
Global Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response System, and the renovation was managed by MUWRP.
Another facility at Uganda Virus Research Institute was also under renovation, which was completed in 2009. The
Bank-funded project was to upgrade these facilities further to level 3.
4
  A maximum of 25 samples are collected from each of these sites weekly and tested with real-time Polymerase
Chain Reaction for influenza viruses

                                                        4
highlighted. Such an analysis would also have facilitated establishing collaborative mechanisms
with other on-going initiatives in order to maximize synergy.

18. Incorporation of Lessons Learned. Generally, the project did a good job in incorporating
past lessons, such as integrating the project within line ministries to ensure coherence with other
government programs, while maintaining a sizeable level of autonomy to ensure smooth
implementation. It also drew from previous experience in responding to the Ebola outbreak by
incorporating these lessons in the training of health workers on case management and rapid
response, and in developing a contingency plan for human resource management in case of an
outbreak. The project design also drew from lessons emerging out of the GPAI that had showed
that strengthening national veterinary infrastructure and capability, adequate surveillance
systems, proper diagnosis and linkage to reference laboratories, multi-sector collaboration, and
effective communication were central to prevention and response the AI outbreak. However, it
did not as adequately draw lessons from emergency projects regarding the use of expedited
procurement procedures, but instead opted for traditional procurement methods that were
inordinately long.

19. Soundness of Rationale for the Bank’s Intervention. The rationale for the Bank’s
intervention presented by the project was strong and well-articulated, including the global public
goods aspect of controlling HPAI and the recognition of the Bank’s unique ability to: (i) catalyse
the required coordinated international response and multi-disciplinary approach; (ii) draw from
the growing knowledge about preparing such operations, in addition to its past experience in
various regions in emergency preparedness and response programs more generally; and (iii)
address the Government’s funding gap (as resources from other development partners were
limited).

(ii) Assessment of the project design—objectives, components, and organization —
including its realism and the degree of complexity

20. The project objective was realistic and simple. The overall component design, which
followed the broad design of the GPAI template (animal, human and communication
components), was also straightforward, and project activities were within the Government
agencies’ capacity to implement. Implementation arrangements were also simple: the animal
health component implemented by MAAIF and the human health component by MOH, and
coordination by OPM (more on OPM’s role under “Implementation”).

21. However, as indicated above, the absence of expeditious procurement features, at least for
emergency items, created a disconnect between the project’s emergency response nature and its
cumbersome procurement arrangements. In addition, the key performance indicators for the
project’s development objective as contained in the results matrix were exclusively focused on
animal sector outcomes, with none on the human health dimensions. Finally, the design failed to
provide a mechanism for coordinating and consolidating all HPAI activities in the country as had
been envisaged.

iii) Adequacy of government’s commitment, stakeholder involvement, and/or participatory
processes

                                                 5
22. Government Commitment. Government commitment was mixed: high during preparation,
then falling short in the lead up to and immediately following effectiveness, but picking up in the
second half of project implementation. Although Government actively participated in the
project’s preparation, it could have done more to encourage the project’s consideration in
Parliament where the project suffered inordinate delays. The project was approved by the World
Bank in June 2008, but it wasn’t until one year later (May 2009) that the requisite parliamentary
committee held the first discussion on it. It appears that Government had not adequately
engaged Parliament for an expedited review.

23. As it turned out, the said parliamentary committee rejected the project at its May 2009
seating on the grounds that the avian influenza threat had passed, which in part reflected
Government’s inadequate sensitization of Parliament on the project’s broad scope that
encompassed the country’s other major threats, not just avian influenza. Indeed, it wasn’t long
after Parliament’s rejection of the project that there was a major Influenza A/H1N1 (swine flu)
outbreak in Uganda, with the first case registered on July 1, 2009, and the numbers starting to
grow rapidly, which created a renewed sense of urgency to approve and implement the project.
Government notified the Bank on October 10, 2009 that Parliament had finally approved the
project. By then, the effectiveness deadline had expired (after repeated extensions), which
necessitated processing a retroactive extension whose processing added more delay. The project
finally became effective on December 03, 2009, and Government commitment picked up again.

24. Other stakeholders. The project partnered with various stakeholders, such as: (i) the
Uganda Poultry Farmers Association in registering and training poultry farmers; (ii) various local
communities in establishing community surveillance programs; and (iii) the Uganda Wildlife
Authority in wild bird monitoring. The Uganda Virus Research Institute (one of the project
beneficiary entities) also benefited from its partnership with the Centers for Disease Control,
Atlanta (USA). Similarly, the National Animal Disease Diagnostic and Epidemiology Center that
was being supported by the project also benefited from technical support from the Institute for
Animal Health Pirbright (UK). These partnerships greatly facilitated project implementation.

iv) Assessment of risks and mitigation measures

25. Major potential threats to project implementation identified at appraisal included: (i) poor
coordination among implementing agencies; (ii) weak procurement management; (iii) delays in
availing financial resources; (iv) inadequacy of project activities to contain an avian influenza
outbreak; (v) insufficient commitment at local levels despite strong central government
commitment; and (vi) disease recurrence from porous borders. Of these, poor project
coordination and weak procurement management risks materialized most considerably, with
delays in availing financial resources also materializing but to a lesser extent. The other risks did
not materialize. These three risks are discussed in greater detail under “Implementation”.
Suffice it to say here that:

(a)   Project coordination which was initially very weak, thus undermining implementation
      progress, improved considerably after personnel changes and greater involvement by the
      Permanent Secretaries of the implementing entities (OPM, MAAIF, and MOH).

                                                 6
(b)   Belated initiation as well as poor management of procurement processes also undermined
      project implementation. The latter was partially mitigated by training the procurement
      staff, although this could have been more effective had it been done much earlier in project
      implementation.

(c)   Delays in operationalizing special accounts undermined activity initiation, and the
      intermittent flow in counterpart funding slowed down some activities. The latter was
      partially mitigated through reallocations although civil works suffered from these
      disruptions.

2.2 Implementation

26. When the project finally became effective after a 17.5 month delay, Government moved
quickly to set up the National Project Steering Committee for providing overall guidance during
implementation, and a Project Coordination Team comprising officials from OPM, MAAIF, and
MOH to oversee day-to-day project implementation. However, project implementation got off to
a very slow start, characterized by: (i) weak project coordination; (ii) slow procurement; and (iii)
delayed access to project funds.

27. First, overall project coordination, which was carried out by OPM, was initially grossly
inadequate5. This not only hampered initial overall project implementation progress, but also
adversely affected OPM-managed priority activities, namely: (i) the production of the project
Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP), (ii) the development of the overarching
M&E framework for the project, and (iii) designing modalities for public/private partnerships, all
of which were only completed in early 2012, over two years after project effectiveness. It wasn’t
until another coordinator was appointed and additional support staff recruited that project
coordination significantly improved. Also, the National Project Steering Committee met
infrequently.

28. Second, the extended period between the project’s Board approval and its effectiveness had
not been utilized to get a head-start on procurement, such as elaborating terms of reference,
preparing technical specifications and bidding documents, etc. Most procurement activities were
initiated from scratch well after effectiveness, adding to further implementation delay, which
triggered the extension of the project’s closing date first to June 30, 2013, and then to December
31, 2013 to facilitate completion of the remaining activities. Delays were most pronounced in the
construction of the isolation unit by MOH and in upgrading to BSL-3 the diagnostic laboratories
by MOH and MAAIF. In addition to the above factors, other contributory elements included: (i)
delays in hiring architectural design consultants; (ii) delays in payment to contractors (this was
the case for the National Animal Disease Diagnostics and Epidemiology Center) of up to 4
months which led to the works stalling various times as the contractors run out of funds to
sustain their cash flow requirements; and (iii) delays attributed to inadequate site management
skills. Also, no expedited procurement procedures had been envisaged for emergency items. For
instance, procurement of personal protection equipment, disinfectants, burdizzos, and

5
 The project was coordinated by the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM), with project activities implemented by
MAAIF and MOH.

                                                        7
asphyxiation systems was completed in June 2011, 1.5 years after effectiveness. Yet these would
have been critical if an avian influenza outbreak had occurred.

29. Third, making the initial deposits into the designated accounts was delayed (the first
transfers were made 6 months after effectiveness in June 2010) due to belated submission of
authorized signatories and of the initial withdrawal applications. Also, the need to open multiple
designated accounts for the Trust Fund money as opposed to just one as originally envisaged in
the Financing Agreement (which was resolved in late 2010) resulted in delayed disbursement
from the trust fund.6

30. It is important to note, however, that the project’s implementation performance picked up
considerably during the 18 month extension largely due to significant improvements in project
coordination, coupled with strong commitment (upon realization that the project was not
progressing as envisaged) from the Permanent Secretaries of OPM, MAAIF, and MOH, along
with their respective technical teams. In some cases, synergy with already ongoing activities
greatly facilitated implementation. For instance, MOH had already initiated surveillance
activities which facilitated its expansion under the project. Similarly, on-going support for
laboratory quality control systems of regional hospitals by CDC became a building block for
related project interventions.

31. In the same vein, the existence of a National Task Force for Avian Influenza facilitated
project implementation. For instance, NTF/AI (which included MOH and MAAIF staff) was
responsible for preparing the Surveillance Guidelines for Animal and Human Influenza in 2012.
Project implementation was also greatly facilitated by the fact that the World Bank task team
leader was, for most of the project’s life, based in the Kampala office, which allowed providing
continuous implementation support.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

32. M&E Design and Implementation. There were two types of M&E systems in the project:
(i) ministerial level M&E systems by each of the technical implementing agencies (i.e. MAAIF
and MOH) to continuously and systematically monitor project implementation activities, outputs,
and outcomes; and (ii) an overarching framework at OPM that would consolidate project
information and feed it into the overall national M&E system.

33. Ministerial level M&E systems were simple and clearly within the project teams’ capacity
to implement. For the most part, the inputs into the M&E systems were data routinely generated
from the project’s activities with only a few instances that required simple surveys. However,
there were some major weaknesses in the design. First, the outcome indicators only related to the
threat to the poultry industry, and none to the threat to humans. Second, the monitoring system
was set up late into project implementation, making tracking some of the indicators problematic.



6
 Initially, the Financing Agreement provided for only one trust fund account. However, when it turned out that
each implementation entity would require its own separate account, the Financing Agreement had to be amended
accordingly.

                                                        8
34. Similarly, setting up the overarching framework at OPM was also problematic.
Establishing the system required the services of a consultant, whose hiring by OPM was very
slow, and the system was only put in place in early 2012.

35. M&E Utilization. The data collected is expected to play a critical role in filling a major
analytical gap in understanding the epidemiology of the various diseases covered in the database
(such as avian influenza, yellow fever, African swine fever, Ebola, Marburg, small ruminant
plague, anthrax, foot and mouth disease, and other threats). For instance, in 2009, only 15
percent of the districts submitted all reports, and most reports had significant data gaps (only 25
percent were full completed). This made epidemiological analyses difficult. However, by
project’s end, 83 percent of the districts were providing a wide range of potentially useful
information on animal diseases.

36. Sustainability of the M&E arrangements beyond the operation’s implementation period.
It is not clear how much of the data collection arrangements will be sustained at high levels
beyond the project. Whereas the M&E system in MOH is expected to be sustained beyond the
project, regular collection of field data under MAAIF (where the data covers a wide array of
animals across the country) will require continuous effort and focus by the Government.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance

37. Environment. The Government had, under the terms of the Financing Agreement,
committed to preparing the ESMP within three months of project effectiveness, i.e. by March 02,
2010. However, the final version of the ESMP is dated May 2012, i.e. 2.5 years after
effectiveness. The ESMP was comprehensive and the process highly participatory. Its belated
production did not materially affect project implementation because there ultimately was no
avian influenza outbreak that would have necessitated environmental and social safeguards in
culling. Civil works activities, for which the ESMP was most applicable, were carried out
towards the end of project implementation. By that time, the ESMP had been prepared and
approved by Uganda’s National Environmental Management Authority, and found satisfactory
by the World Bank. However, issues related to the protocols on handling highly infectious
patients and medical waste generated at the Isolation laboratory and the BSL3 facility at the
National Influenza Centre laboratory in the Uganda Virus Research Institute need to be
addressed.

38. Social. At appraisal, there were no Social Safeguards triggered by the project as there were
no plans for land acquisition, voluntary or involuntary, nor any displacement of people. The
main social concern was the maintenance of livelihoods for poultry producers, especially
backyard producers, in the event of future HPAI outbreaks. This was to be mitigated through a
compensation program established with broad stakeholder involvement and operated
transparently, and by a public campaign to deter widespread rejection of chicken by consumers
in HPAI-free areas in case of an outbreak somewhere else. There was no outbreak of Avian
Influenza and so no culling took place. A compensation policy was developed towards the



                                                 9
project’s closing, and was still awaiting Cabinet approval at the time of the ICR. Public
awareness was carried out as planned.

Fiduciary Compliance

39. Financial Management. With the exception of a few cases, the project was characterized
by good financial management across the three implementing agencies. Acceptable IFRs were
always submitted within the submission deadlines throughout the project duration. Similarly
withdrawal applications were consistently submitted on quarterly basis, save for the final
withdrawal applications that were delayed beyond the application deadline.

40. The first audit report from the Auditor General for FY 2010/11 issued a clean opinion but
raised issues of poor book keeping at MAAIF, poor advance management at MOH, and
inadequate fixed asset recording at OPM. The FY 2011/12 audit was a qualified opinion on the
basis that project payment vouchers and supporting documents for US $ 323,338 at the OPM
were not availed for audit. These were later availed in the subsequent audit and cleared. The
audited financial statements for June 30, 2013 were submitted after the submission deadline of
December 31, 2013. The audit report was unqualified opinion on the financial statements. The
three audit reports also reported some weaknesses most of which were addressed. Similarly any
weaknesses noted during FM Supervisions missions were always satisfactorily addressed.


41. Procurement. The procurement processes, including planning, publications, bidding,
evaluation and award were generally compliant with World Bank Procurement guidelines. The
Procurement Plan as approved at project design was adhered to, and any changes/updates to the
plan were approved by IDA. However, even when there was compliance with Bank guidelines,
capacity weaknesses in procurement especially at the beginning of the project undermined
project implementation and progress. Weaknesses in capacity affected the procurement for civil
works for the isolation unit and diagnostic laboratories, the medical equipment and furniture for
the isolation unit and for the BSL3 laboratory at NADDEC. The capacity weaknesses, coupled
with the decision not to adopt emergency procurement procedures, as allowed under the
provisions of OP/BP 8.50, contributed to implementation delays which underlie the two
extensions of the project closing date. There were no reports of procurement violations although
there were some instances of poor record keeping.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

42. As the two BSL-3 laboratories were completed in the final days of project implementation,
it was not possible to facilitate their full functionality before the project’s closing, although
Government has committed to doing that. For instance, MOH has committed to operationalizing
the isolation unit, including proposals to use it for multiple drug resistant tuberculosis patients. It
will be critical that Government fully equips and staffs these laboratories to enable them to
perform their intended tasks.

43. It will also be important that surveillance activities be maintained. This will not only entail
availing adequate funding and other resources, but also exploring ways and means of leveraging
technology where applicable (such as SMS-based systems) in order to minimize surveillance

                                                  10
costs. It will be important to maintain coordination among the various ministries, especially
MAAIF and MOH, for effective surveillance and response. There will also be a need for greater
understanding of the epidemiology of the various threats. A better understanding of the attack
rates, the principal risk factors, high risk locations, etc., will facilitate better utilization of
surveillance resources.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives

Rating: High

44. The project’s objectives remain as highly relevant today as they were at project appraisal.
With growing human population, urbanization and the related expansion of human activities into
forests and other natural habitats and intensification of livestock production, there is growing
interaction between humans, animals (domestic and wild) and the environment and with this, an
increase in the risks of virus mutations and disease transmission from animals to humans.
Therefore, the objective of preparing for, controlling, and responding effectively to future avian
and human influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in livestock and
humans is still very relevant especially because of the persistence of the threat of an avian
influenza epidemic worldwide, including in Egypt and Cambodia, where people are still dying
every year because of the disease, (ii) the current outbreaks of Ebola in West-Africa, and (iii) the
recent emergence of the Middle-East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) that has already killed 286
persons and for which camels seem to play a role in virus transmission. Uganda is still
vulnerable to these zoonoses and several others, such as Ebola, swine flu whose early detection
and containment requires the kinds of systems, procedures, equipment, infrastructure, and
institutional coordination supported by this project. Prior to the project, preparedness levels to
curtail or otherwise contain such major threats – while growing with support from the US
Government, DANIDA, UNICEF, FAO, WHO, and other agencies – still had significant gaps in
all the above spheres.

Relevance of Design and Implementation Arrangements

Rating: High

45. The design, which allowed for both joint and parallel interventions to build capacity in the
human and animal health systems, was highly relevant. The importance of effective
communication, including avoiding unnecessary panics but also changing behaviors (for
producers, consumers, animal and human health professionals) was well captured in the design
and addressed through a dedicated component. The design also addressed several important
aspects of reducing the risk of avian influenza and other emerging zoonotic diseases, including
surveillance, quarantine, outbreak control, compensation, pandemic preparedness, and diagnostic
capability which remain relevant today. For instance, although domestic diagnostic capacity had
improved with the upgrading of the Makerere University Veterinary Laboratory to BSL-2 in

                                                 11
May 2008, with another upgrade of the Entebbe Laboratory to BSL-2 underway (completed in
2009), the addition of a BSL-3 facility in the country has added a capability for rapid
confirmation of the diagnoses in order to better calibrate the nature and scope of response. This
is especially important given the mounting threats from deadly diseases such as Ebola and
Marburg, among others (although perhaps one BSL-3 laboratory facility would have been
sufficient). There was also an appropriate balance between short term actions aimed at
averting/containing an immediate threat should one occur, and long term actions to build
capacity for meeting future threats.

46. The multi-sectoral approach taken under the project, including mainstreaming the animal
health activities into MAAIF and human health activities into MOH, were good design features
which, among other things, ensured coherence with regular sectoral programs and enhanced
sustainability. But as indicated earlier, project coordination by OPM which was initially very
inadequate and improved over time with staff changes, raised the issue of whether the
coordination function of all multi-sectoral projects should necessarily be placed with OPM, or
whether more practical alternatives could be considered, while keeping OPM involved in some
other form.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project has significantly contributed to reducing the threat of HPAI and other zoonoses to
the poultry industry and humans and also enhanced the country’s level of preparedness, control
and response to future zoonoses, including but not limited to avian and human influenza. The
project has strengthened the capacity for animal disease surveillance and monitoring,
strengthened the national veterinary service, improved veterinary technical competence for
emerging disease prevention, built the infrastructure for a balanced veterinary epidemiology
surveillance program, improved public health planning and coordination on AHI, improved
public health surveillance systems, and strengthened AHI and other disease prevention and
preparedness capabilities. This has been achieved through: (i) raising awareness among key
stakeholders on the risks of HPAI; (ii) elaborating and distributing standard operating
procedures; (iii) surveillance — including equipping and facilitating field surveillance teams,
instituting e-reporting from all districts, establishing community based surveillance in high risk
areas, support to sero-prevalence surveys and increasing the number of sentinel sites from 3 to
14; (iv) training health workers and local administration/community leaders; (v) enhancing the
country’s diagnostic capability; (vi) supporting the refurbishment and operationalization of a
number of quarantine centers and checkpoints; and availing drugs and sundries including
Personal Protective Equipment, (vii) developing and disseminating guidelines for infection
control and management of AHI; (viii) development of district preparedness and response plans;
(ix) support to development of a strategic plan and harmonization of policies for infectious
disease research in the country; establishment of isolation facilities, among many others (see
Annex 2). While there was no HPAI outbreak, as an outcome of these efforts, the systems which
were put in place under the project facilitated a rapid and effective response to several outbreaks
of other diseases such as yellow fever, swine flu, Ebola, Marburg, etc. An instructive example is
the case of Ebola where although the incidence of outbreaks has increased, the duration,

                                                12
geographical spread, and fatality rates from the outbreaks has considerably declined as the result
of the response capacity in MOH that was developed with support of the project and other
donors7.

47. But the project also had some shortcomings. For instance, out of the 6 planned isolation
units, only one was constructed towards the project’s closing. As a result, it is not possible to
attest to its functionality, including on issues related to adequate staffing, equipment, and overall
management. Similarly, the belated completion of the two BSL-3 laboratories did not permit
ensuring their functionality during the life of the project and makes it hard to discern the extent
of their future functionality. Otherwise, most of the outcome indicator targets as defined in the
results matrix were achieved and some even surpassed:

48. Outcome 1: Increased percentage of annual suspected HPAI cases in poultry reported
and fully investigated (both laboratory and field) in ten high risk districts (end of project
target = 80 %). The percentage of suspected poultry cases that are fully investigated in the 10
high risk districts (which later became 15 because of splits) increased from a baseline of 0% in
2009 to 100%, thus exceeding the end of project target of 80%. As indicated earlier, the project’s
scope was broader than just HPAI. Reporting and investigation improved for a wide range of
other diseases as well (anthrax, poultry diseases, swine fever, ruminant plague, and foot and
mouth disease, among others). A number of sero-prevalence surveys of HPAI and re-emerging
zoonotic diseases were carried out in order to ensure early detection and rapid response. This
capability was enhanced by establishing an active community based surveillance system in some
high risk districts. It was also enabled by providing all districts adequate GPS equipment and
transport facilities for the control of HPAI and other threats.

49. Outcome 2: Proportion of veterinary facilities with capacity to diagnose HPAI in at-
risk districts (end of project target = 80 %). The capacity to diagnose HPAI has been
increased in three out of four veterinary facilities in “at risk” districts. This represents a 75%
percent achievement compared to a target of 80% at appraisal. Laboratories in 15 at risk districts
were supplied with rapid detection kits that screen influenza type A, although with limited
reliability of the results.

50. Outcome 3: Percentage of districts with sufficient stocks of PPE, disinfection units,
burdizzos, and asphyxiation systems (end of project target = 100 %). At project’s end, all
districts in the country had sufficient stocks of PPE, disinfection units, and burdizzos ready for
use in case of an avian and human influenza outbreak. All proposed asphyxiation units were
procured and were ready for dispatch in case of a HPAI outbreak.

51. Outcome 4: Percentage of commercial poultry farms, poultry slaughter facilities, and
live bird markets practicing acceptable bio-security standards (end of project target = 60
%). The percentage of commercial poultry, poultry slaughter facilities, and live bird markets
practicing acceptable biosecurity standards now stands at 63% compared to an end of project
target of 60%. The project undertook active veterinary surveillance in live bird markets in

7
  Before the project, Ebola outbreaks would spread in more than one district but now, the outbreaks are typically
contained at source. The duration of the outbreaks has also reduced from an average of 6 months to 3 months and
there are fewer fatal cases per outbreak.

                                                        13
various – especially high risk – districts including Kasese, Bushenyi, Kabarole, Bundibugyo,
Dokolo, Soroti, Kaberamaido, and Lira.

52. Outcome 5: Percentage of veterinary facilities meeting OIE standards for diagnostics
(end of project target = 80 %). The percentage of veterinary facilities meeting OIE standards
for diagnostic laboratories has increased from 0% to 75% (three out four) in terms of adequacy
of physical facilities, equipment, and reagents. At the national level, three technicians underwent
training in Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction diagnostic techniques in Austria in
October/November 2010. However, as stated above, the late completion of the BSL3 laboratory
at the National Animal Disease Diagnostics and Epidemiology Centre did not make it possible
for the project to facilitate this laboratory’s functionality.

53.

3.3 Efficiency

54. In the event of an H5N1 outbreak, economic losses would not only arise from the birds lost
or destroyed, but also from the likely loss in consumer confidence which would depress demand
for poultry and possibly other meat products, a decline in tourism, etc. This would disrupt the
livelihoods of those who produce or trade in these products, or depend on tourism services. In
this case, the project’s benefits derive from the potential losses prevented. Assessing these
potential losses requires assumptions about the probability and severity of occurrence of such
outbreaks, parameters for which there is no good data in the literature (a major shortcoming of
this analysis). Similar to the approach taken at appraisal, this ICR run simulations on Gross
Attack Rates ranging from 0.7 to 2.5 percent, with the following results (see Annex 3 for
complete set of updated assumptions):

Table 1: Internal Rate of Return at Various Gross Attack Rates
          Gross Attack Rates                IRR
 I        0.7%                              12%
 II       1.0%                              19%
 III      2.5%                              40%

55. These simulation results were broadly consistent with those obtained at appraisal. In
reality, the returns are most likely much higher. First, this analysis is limited to the likely impact
on poultry meat and eggs. It doesn’t account for possible decline in the demand for poultry/meat
products in the counterfactual. Such an analysis wasn’t done due to the lack of reliable data on
the elasticity of demand. Accounting for such a demand shift would increase the return on the
investment. Second, it does not include the impact of the project’s surveillance and disease
prevention and containment activities for other livestock (cattle, small ruminants, pigs). Yet,
these sectors are also benefiting from the project. This analysis was also not done for lack of
reliable data. Third, it does not include the value of reduced human morbidity from avian
influenza related illness which, too, would have added to the project’s rate of return, nor the
benefits from tourism if a major outbreak is thwarted.




                                                  14
56. Additionally, a comparison of total project cost per capita (per inhabitant) and total project
cost per bird across a number of countries where similar interventions funded out of the GPAI
were implemented shows that the cost per capita in Uganda was the lowest while the cost per
bird was in the middle range pointing to a high level of efficiency relative to other countries.

                Country           Total project cost per capita   Total project cost per bird
                                  (US$)                           (US$)
                Uganda                         0.4                             0.53
                Turkey                         0.8                             0.17
                Azerbaijan                    0.81                             0.36
                Romania                       1.75                             0.39
                Albania                       1.97                             0.98
                Armenia                        3.5                             2.14


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57. The project achieved most of its output and outcome targets at a relatively high level of
efficacy and efficiency. This is in addition to the high relevance of the project objectives and the
design. One shortcoming was the belated completion of the civil works, making it difficult to
ascertain the functionality of the facilities after closure of project implementation.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

Rating: Moderate

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

58. Poverty Impact. The project’s impact on poverty was largely in the form of thwarting
threats to the health and livelihoods of the poor. As indicated earlier, the poultry industry in
Uganda is overwhelmingly characterized by backyard free range systems, especially among the
rural poor. No avian influenza threat materialized during the time of the project, although the
project created awareness on how to avoid contracting the disease in future outbreaks. In
addition, the capacity to prepare for, control, and respond to other zoonoses is expected to have a
strong poverty impact.

59. Gender. The project was not gender specific. However, as backyard poultry is the
predominant chicken production system in Uganda (about 80 percent), and since backyard
poultry tend to be owned by women, efforts to limit the spread of diseases among poultry,
especially among backyard systems, would indirectly preserve this aspect of women’s
livelihoods.

60. Social Development. The project impacted on social behavior, including hygiene –
especially on food handling. Most especially, it empowered local communities in taking control

                                                 15
of their own monitoring thus making them active partners in combating threats to their
livelihoods and welfare.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

61. Significant institutional capacity strengthening were carried out, ranging from training, to
reinforcing surveillance systems (both at the community level as well as the institutional level),
to laboratory diagnostic capacity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

62.   None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

63.   There was no Beneficiary Survey/Stakeholder Workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

64. Significant progress was made towards putting in place mechanisms for responding to
zoonotic and non-zoonotic threats, and the system was tested out in some outbreaks as discussed
earlier. District response teams have been put in place, community surveillance systems
established in high risk districts, an operational reporting system has been put in place, curricula
in veterinary institutions have been put in place to facilitate improving awareness about zoonotic
threats and containment modalities among graduates, among other things. The level of
collaboration among various institutions, especially between animal, health, and wildlife staff
has been enhanced. However, there will be need for adequate funding (especially through the
relevant Ministries’ budgets) to maintain a minimum level of monitoring and preparedness.
Second, the laboratory diagnostic capability that was put in place needs to be functional (staffing
and materials). These challenges constitute a moderate threat to the Development Outcome.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65. The project was prepared in 2008 following the blueprints of the GPAI design. Under the
Bank’s leadership, this was a pioneering and innovative design that brought together the animal
and public health Ministries to address a common objective. This approach was a forerunner to
the current “One Health” concept that breaks down the silos between human, environment and
animal health. These AHI projects, including this one in Uganda, were pioneers in trying to

                                                 16
break these silos. The design also had many good features, such as the focus on biosecurity in
order to reduce the probability of outbreak and a specific component on communication and
public awareness which is crucial in any sanitary crisis. Quality at entry would have been
enhanced if: (i) more attention had been paid to procurement arrangements to make sure they
were better suited to an emergency response; (ii) the design had provided for strengthened
coordination with other partners and harmonization of initiatives from other donors; and (iii)
there was better articulation of the results framework to more fully encompass animal health
outcomes as reflected in the development objective. These slight weaknesses for an otherwise
excellent and innovative technical quality of the project at entry justifies a Moderately
Satisfactory quality at entry rating

Quality of supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66. The country-based Bank team provided substantial implementation support on work
programming, financial management, procurement, and safeguards, among others.
Implementation support missions were composed of a broad skill-mix, regular, and provided
detailed aide memoires countersigned by the Government and with clear actions that needed to
be performed. There were also several “mini” support missions in between the principal
missions, which were mounted by the country office-based staff.

67. However, the Bank team appears to have not worked sufficiently with other partners
during implementation, including undertaking a joint approach to supervision. Even though other
partners’ activities were running parallel, there was room for collaboration.

5.2 Recipient Performance

Government performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68. The initial Government request for support is evidence of a progressive approach to
addressing zoonotic diseases. The Government was also supportive during project
implementation, especially during the second half of project implementation. As a result, the
majority of the output indicators were achieved. However, there were some shortcomings as
well. For instance, the Government could have been more proactive in urging Parliament to
table the Project for discussion earlier than almost 12 months, and did not seem to have
explained the broad scope of the project to parliamentarians who initially rejected, then later
approved, the project. Counterpart funding for health activities was at times slow in coming. By
project’s end, the draft compensation policy was still with Cabinet awaiting approval.

Implementing agency or agencies performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                               17
69. The project was jointly implemented by MAAIF for the animal health component and
MOH for the human health component, with OPM ensuring coordination as required of projects
that are implemented by more than one ministry. As discussed earlier, project coordination by
OPM was initially very inadequate, although it improved after personnel changes and greater
commitment from the Permanent Secretaries. Similarly, project implementation by the two
ministries also had a slow start, compounded by the belated initiation and later inadequate
management of the procurement process. Procurement for civil works was particularly
protracted, and its implementation beset by many factors including poor contract management.
However, strong commitment from the Government team towards the end of the project ensured
completing all activities within the 18 month extension.

Justification of rating for overall recipient performance

70. The overall borrower rating of “moderately satisfactory” is because of the uneven
performance for both the government and the implementing agencies: off to a slow start but
gathering pace towards the end. A more consistent performance would have resulted in better
project outcomes, especially on the project’s civil works activities.

6. Lessons Learned

71. More flexible implementation arrangements might be more suitable in emergency
operations. Had there been a major avian and human influenza outbreak during the course of
project implementation, Government wouldn’t have fully benefited from the project largely
because of the slow procurement processes that characterized the project. There is need for
greater pragmatism and flexibility during emergency projects. Options might range from using
the procurement staff of existing/ongoing projects with experienced personnel for the more
urgent items, while non-urgent items are procured by the relevant line ministry staff whose
capacity might still need some strengthening, to hiring experienced consultants for the duration
of the project, to pairing line ministry staff with more experienced short-term consultants for on-
the-job training. In addition, it is important to constructively use the time before project
effectiveness to make progress on procurement (especially where procurement accredited staff in
the ministries already exist), instead of waiting for project effectiveness before starting the
procurement process.

72. Better contract supervision is critical for enhancing contractor performance. For civil
works contracts under execution, it is important for the Borrower’s contract managers to
supervise the contractor regularly (such as weekly) to establish the capacity/readiness of the
contractor. The frequency of visits can be increased or reduced depending upon the contractor’s
strengths or other measures taken for noted poor performance.

73. Designing implementation arrangements through Government structures should, during
project appraisal, take into account not just staff’s technical competency but their actual
availability as well. OPM tends to be a favored choice for coordinating projects of a multi-
sectoral nature, as was the case in this project. With the growing tendency for multi-sectoral
approaches, hence the risk of overwhelming OPM’s capacity, the choice of OPM for project
coordination should be weighed against the available capacity to fulfill the function. As it turned

                                                18
out, project coordination was deficient early in project implementation (as the assigned person
had other priority tasks), although it improved over time after staff changes. Alternative
implementation arrangements (such as conferring coordination responsibilities to the ministry
with the preponderance of project activities) might have been more suitable.

74. Engagement with parliament during project preparation can facilitate timely approval of
projects by parliament. Adequately engaging key parliamentarians about the project’s broad
scope and the varied and persistent nature of the threats addressed under the project could have
potentially facilitated an expedited and favorable consideration of the project in Parliament. It is
particularly important that relevant parliamentary sectoral committees be closely associated with
the project preparation process.

75. Working across sectors can be an effective way of addressing zoonotic diseases. With the
growing and persistent threat from zoonotic diseases, a culture and effective modi operandi of
collaboration between the ministries in charge of health and livestock are critical in ensuring
adequate monitoring of, and rapid response to major zoonotic disease outbreaks.

76. A single major threat can act as a good entry point for building capacity to address a wide
range of other threats. The national and global attention to address HPAI and the systems put in
place for its surveillance and response to its outbreak have been used to great effect in
responding to and containing other diseases that had previously not commanded similar
attention.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Recipient/Implementing agencies

Please see Annex 5.

(b) Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                                19
                                  Republic of Uganda
              Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                          Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component
                            Allocated         Percentage of     Disbursed      Percentage of
       Component
                          (USD Million)           Total       (USD Million)        Total
Animal Health                  6.66               55.5%            5.50           51.7%
Human Health                   3.06               25.5%           3.42            32.2%
Communication                  1.83               15.3%            1.25           11.8%
Coordination, M&E              0.45                3.8%            0.46            4.3%
Total Project costs           12.00              100.0%           10.63           100.0%
Figures may not add up due to rounding

(b) Financing
                       Appraisal         Percentage of      Disbursed         Percentage of
                     (USD Million)           Total        (USD Million)           Total
IDA                      10.0                83.3%             8.65              81.3%
AHIF                      2.0               16.7%              1.99               18.7%
                         12.0               100.0%            10.63              100.0%
Figures may not add up due to rounding




                                              20
                                  Republic of Uganda
              Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                           Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Component 1: Animal Health

Part I: Preparedness and Prevention
77. All the 112 districts in the country now report on veterinary services through E-reporting
procedures. Standard Operating Procedures for reporting between MAAIF and other line
ministries were developed and the curricula for the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Para-
Veterinary reviewed. Eight sero-prevalence surveys covering HPAI and other zoonotic diseases
and non-zoonotic priority diseases (Pestes des Petits Ruminants, Foot and Mouth Disease,
Anthrax, Contagious Caprine Pleuro-Pneumonia, Rift Valley Fever, and Brucellosis) were
undertaken compared to the four surveys that were envisaged at appraisal. The project
operationalized four quarantine centers and forty checkpoints in support of strengthened National
Veterinary Service quarantine capacity.

78. A compensation policy for HPAI for induced death or culling of poultry was drafted and
now awaits cabinet approval. All districts in the country were linked to the National Veterinary
Service incident command system for management of logistics and a central command at
MAAIF coordinating the District Rapid Response Teams for Avian Influenza and other Trans-
boundary Animal Diseases was set up. Significant progress towards attaining full diagnostic
competency for HPAI has been registered after the recently completed BSL-3 laboratory at
National Animal Disease Diagnostics and Epidemiology Center becomes fully functional.

Part II: Response and Recovery

79. Funding for response and recovery was intended to provide support for containment and
control of HPAI in case of an eventual outbreak. The project would support immediate reaction
to the outbreak, implementation of sanitary measures, quarantine and movement control and
compensation. However, there was no HPAI outbreak in the country and funding under this
activity was re-allocated to other project components.

Component 2: Human Health

80. The project under the human health component sought to enhance capacity of the health
sector to detect early, respond and contain avian influenza and other zoonotic outbreaks at
source. The following are the subcomponents: (a) strengthening of surveillance of humans for
influenza; (b) strengthening capacity for avian and human influenza prevention, containment and
control and case management; and (c) strengthening capacity of the Uganda National Health
Research Organization (UNHRO).

Part I: Preparedness and Prevention

Surveillance of Humans for Influenza:


                                               21
81. The project contributed significantly to improving surveillance capacity for HPAI in the
sector. From the original number of three sentinel sites, 14 sites were established across the
country during the project period. The project also supported training of health workers and other
key district staff including community leaders, and equipped and facilitated the field surveillance
teams. As a result of the improved surveillance all districts report weekly on influenza-like
illnesses using the Integrated Disease Surveillance & Response (IDSR) system. This is well and
above the original project target of 50 percent. The percentage of districts with bulletins/IDSR
feedback reports increased from 2.6% to 100% while that of regional referral hospitals with
bulletins/IDSR feedback reports increased from 15 % to 100 % by December 31, 2013. Fourteen
epidemiological mapping exercises of HPAI risk factors were undertaken in the high risk
districts compared to the 10 mapping exercises that were projected. While there has been no
HPAI outbreak, the inbuilt surveillance capacity has enabled the MOH to respond and contain
other zoonotic disease outbreaks such as Ebola and Marburg fever.

Avian and Human Influenza Prevention, Containment and Control and Case Management:

82. Through the project: (a) MOH developed and disseminated guidelines for infection control
and management of avian and human influenza; (b) districts developed preparedness and
response plans; and (c) support was extended to control specific zoonotic disease outbreaks like
Ebola, rabies and Marburg. Drugs and sundries including personal protective equipment
procured under the project were used in the containment of the outbreaks. The improved state of
preparedness and response was demonstrated by the fact 92% of districts had in place
appropriate avian and human influenza plans compared to a baseline of 30% of the districts. In
addition, several community mobilization activities were conducted including simulation
exercises in selected high risk districts.

83. Activities on improving food safety and environmental hygiene were undertaken involving
training of inspectorate staff on assessment and handling of food and raising awareness of
vendors in the markets and along major highways on avian and human influenza. In the process a
number of protocols and manuals were developed and disseminated including: (a) manual for the
prevention and control of avian and human influenza and other zoonoses of public health
concern in Uganda; (b) medical examination protocol for poultry and food handlers; and (c) food
safety guidelines for prevention and control of avian and human influenza and other zoonoses.

Uganda National Health Research Organization (UNHRO):

84. UNHRO, a new organization still in its infancy received project support to establish its
Secretariat. It was also supported to develop a 5 year strategic plan and to strengthen the
institution and to harmonize policies and strategies for infectious disease research in the country.
The project also strengthened research and diagnostic capacity by training staff, provision of
laboratory supplies and reagents.




                                                 22
Establishment of Isolation Facilities and Upgrading of the National Influenza Center
Laboratory:

85. Due to limited funds, only one isolation facility linked to Entebbe Grade B Hospital was
constructed instead of the six originally planned. MOH will need to ensure that this facility is
properly managed, including providing adequate staff and equipment, as well as ensuring proper
handling of medical waste generated at the facility since Entebbe Grade B Hospital does not
have capacity to manage such a facility for highly infectious patients. It was not clear at the time
of the ICR which category of highly infectious patients will be admitted to the facility and how
the infectious waste material generated by the facility will be handled. MOH will need to set up a
team comprising staff from Entebbe General Hospital and MOH to develop a plan of action to
handle outstanding issues.

86. The National Influenza Center Laboratory in Uganda Virus Research Institute was
upgraded to BSL 3 and handed over to MOH in December 2013. It will be important that MOH
take appropriate measures to equip and staff the facilities, and provide for the handling of highly
infectious medical waste so that operations can commence without delays. The institute should
put in place safe and adequate provisions for decontamination and handling of infectious
material from the laboratory.

Part II: Response and Recovery

87. Under the subcomponent the project was meant to build capacity to respond to an outbreak
of pandemic influenza of avian origin. The project supported (a) facilitation of the rapid
response teams to undertake active case investigations, (b) collaboration with the veterinary
services in the areas of disease surveillance and (c) provision of personal protection equipment.
While Uganda did not experience an outbreak of HPAI, the capacity built with project support
assisted in the containment of outbreaks of several diseases during the project period. Most of the
measures including exceptional ones such as quarantine and restricting movement of people,
closure of schools and markets were applied during the recent Ebola outbreaks.

Component 3: Communication

88. The component aimed at addressing the low risk perception and a general lack of
knowledge of avian and human influenza among the general public and a wide range of
stakeholders, especially the small-scale back-yard poultry farmers. While MOH was responsible
for coordinating communication-related activities under the project including holding the budget,
each agency was responsible for implementing its communication-related activities. The project
supported several joint communication-related activities including sensitizing key policy makers
and opinion leaders in the districts as well as farmers and households with back-yard poultry,
local government officials, and religious and cultural leaders on the risks of avian and human
influenza; orientation of village health teams on HPAI; and development and dissemination of
Information, Education and Communication materials. As a result increased awareness, over
80% of the population in the high risk districts could report about avian and human influenza
activities both planned and under implementation.


                                                23
Component 4: Coordination, Monitoring & Evaluation

89. Coordination activities under OPM focused mainly on coordinating site meetings, and
resolution of issues identified during these meetings and visits, and their follow-up. Several
meetings following the site meetings and visits were held. These meetings proved useful, for
instance, in helping resolve the slow payment of contractors’ interim certificates especially in the
MOH, and speeding up the work at their two sites as a result.




                                                24
                                  Republic of Uganda
              Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                        Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis


Background

1.      Globally, outbreaks of H5N1 have tapered off. However, H5N1 is still around, and it is
difficult to tell when another major outbreak will occur. The virus is believed to have mutated
into dozens of highly pathogenic strains, which keeps the threat levels high.

           Figure 1 – Number of Confirmed Human Cases for H5N1 Worldwide
                       Reported to the World Health Organization




2.    There is also a growing threat from other types of avian influenza, most recently from
H7N9. According to the World Health Organization, there were 144 confirmed human cases of
H7N9 with 46 deaths in 2013, and several reports are continuing in 2014.

     Figure 2 – Number of Confirmed Human Cases for H5N1 and H7N9 Worldwide
                 Combined, Reported to the World Health Organization
                                 200

                                 150
                  Cases/Deaths




                                 100

                                  50

                                  0
                                   2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

                                                    Cases        Deaths


Economic Impact

3.      In the event of an H5N1 outbreak, economic losses would not only arise from the birds
lost or destroyed, but also from the likely loss in consumer confidence which would depress
demand for poultry and possibly other meat products, and a decline in tourism, among others.

                                                            25
This would disrupt the livelihoods of those who produce or trade in these products. Therefore,
the project’s benefits derive from the potential losses prevented. Assessing these potential losses
requires assumptions about the probability and severity of occurrence of such outbreaks.

4.       The PAD had pointed to the lack of data to assist in predicting the probability of any of
the scenarios for which a possible impact of HPAI can be estimated. At the height of the H5N1
crisis, Indonesia and Thailand witnessed poultry Gross Attack Rates (GARs) that were as high as
10 percent, although GARs in most countries were far less. On this basis, GARs ranging from
0.7 to 2.5 percent were used in the impact simulations during project appraisal.

5.      Other assumptions made at appraisal include: growth in poultry of around 2.2 percent per
annum; the price of 8,400 shillings per bird (each of 1.2 kg); 10 eggs per bird (each at 150
shillings); and a 15 year investment horizon from the first year of implementation. One
simulation was run for an assumed outbreak in Year 2, and another simulation for an outbreak in
Year 4. Based on these assumptions, the project’s internal rates of return had been estimated as
follows:

Table 1: Internal Rate of Return in the Event of Outbreaks in Years 2 and 4
        Gross Attack                    IRR                            IRR
            Rates          Outbreak in Year 2 Scenario Outbreak in Year 4 Scenario
I           0.7%                        11%                             7%
II          1.0%                        20%                            13%
III         2.5%                        70%                            34%

6.      No outbreak occurred in Uganda during the project period, although a major threat is still
likely. The 2013 H7N9 outbreak in East Asia has demonstrated the danger that these viruses
continue to pose.

7.      In updating the economic analysis, this ICR retains the investment horizon of 15 years,
but adjusts the other assumptions as follows: 15,000 shillings per bird, 300 shillings per egg, the
ratio of eggs to birds of 14.3 (according to Government statistics), and an annual poultry growth
of 3 percent (also based on recent Government statistics). No speculation is made as to when a
future outbreak might happen (since there is no hard data to back up such a precise prediction).
Instead, an assessment is made of the return on the prevention/mitigation measures that have
been put in place should an outbreak occur today well understanding that the returns diminish the
further out the event occurs (although not linearly since other parameters are also changing over
time).

Table 2: Internal Rate of Return in the Event of an Outbreak in 2014
          Gross Attack Rates                IRR
I         0.7%                              12%
II        1.0%                              19%
III       2.5%                              40%

8.      In reality, the returns are much higher. First, this analysis is limited to poultry meat and
eggs. It doesn’t account for possible decline in the demand for poultry/meat products in the

                                                  26
counterfactual. This analysis wasn’t done due to a lack of reliable data on the elasticity of
demand. Accounting for such a demand shift would increase the return on the investment.
Second, it does not include the impact of the project’s surveillance and disease prevention and
containment activities for other livestock (cattle, small ruminants, pigs). Yet, these sectors are
also benefiting from the project. This analysis was also not done for lack of reliable data. Third,
it does not include the value of reduced human morbidity from avian influenza related illness
which, too, would have added to the project’s rate of return.




                                                27
                                 Republic of Uganda
            Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
        Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Name                           Title                                    Responsibility
Preparation
Wilson Onyang Odwongo          Rural Development Specialist             Team Leader
Madhur Gautam                  Lead Economist
Mohammed Taqi Sharif           Consultant
Edith Mwenda                   Senior Counsel
Francois Le Gall               Lead Livestock Specialist
Luis Schwarz                   Senior Finance Office
Peter Okwero                   Senior Health Specialist
Mary Bitekerezo                Senior Social Development Specialist
Jane Kibbassa                  Environment Specialist
Grace Nakuya Musoke Munanura   Procurement Specialist
Patrick Umah Tete              Senior Financial Management Specialist
Veronica Schreiber             Health Specialist
Yves Jantzem                   Operations Analyst
Harriet Kiwanuka               Team Assistant
Meseret Kebede                 Program Assistant
Patrice Sade                   Team Assistant

Supervision
Abel Lufafa                    Senior Agricultural Specialist           TTL
Constance Nekessa- Ouma        Social Development Specialist            Social
Edith Mwenda                   Senior Counsel                           Legal
Edwin Moguche                  Financial Management Specialist          FM
Elizabeth Annet Mutesi         ET Consultant                            Procurement
Grace Nakuya Musoke Munanura   Senior Procurement Specialist
Harriet Kiwanuka               Program Assistant
Herbert Oule                   Environmental Specialist
Howard Bariira Centenary       Senior Procurement Specialist
Marie-Claudine Fundi           Language Program Assistant
Joseph Oryokot                 Senior Agricultural Specialist           co-TTL
Madhur Gautam                  Lead Economist
Martin Fodor                   Senior Environment Specialist
Mary Bitekerezo                Senior Social Dev. Specialist
Michael Okuny                  ET Consultant
Mohammed Taqi Sharif           Consultant
Paul Kato Kamuchwezi           Financial Management Specialist
Peter Okwero                   Senior Health Specialist
Rasit Pertev                   Senior Agriculture Economist
Rosemary Birungi Kyabukooli    Program Assistant
Stephen Kibuuka                Consultant                               Civil Engineer
Veronica Schreiber             Health Specialist
Wilson Onyang Odwongo          Senior Rural Development Specialist      TTL

Completion Reporting
Abel Lufafa                    Senior Agricultural Specialist           Task Team Leader
Eustacius Betubiza             Consultant                               Principal Author


                                               28
Organizations
Organization Name     Type            Contact   Title   Office Phone  Phone Email
Ministry of Finance   Borrower/Reci   Finance           2564144707000 finance@finance.go.ug
                      pient
Ministry of           Implementing                      256414531411     ps@agriculture.go.ug
Agriculture and       Agency
Animal Industry,
Fisheries
Ministry of Health    Implementing                      (256-414) 340-   ps@health.go.ug
                      Agency                            872
Office of the Prime   Implementing                      (256-41) 434-    ps@opm.go.ug
Minister              Agency                            2231/259-498




                                                29
                               Republic of Uganda
           Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
         Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


A1.   Background

      In May 2008, Government of Uganda with development assistance from the World Bank
      designed an integrated national plan for action for preparedness response to Avian
      Influenza (AI) which in the medium term was implemented through the Avian and
      Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (AHIP). By design the project was
      to be a precursor for future nation-wide response to emergencies related to highly
      pathogenic AI infection and other emerging or re-emerging infectious diseases to
      animals, birds and humans such as yellow fever, rabies, anthrax, hepatitis, Ebola
      haemorrhagic fever, Marburg haemorrhagic fever, Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever.
      While the focus of the project was on the eminent outbreak of AI, the project allowed
      broadening this focus to also consider response to other eminent infectious diseases away
      from only AI. This was very critical to the success of the project especially in fortunate
      event that no AI outbreak did occur in Uganda.

      As a required by the World Bank, this independent evaluation was commissioned by the
      Office of the Prime Minister to: a) document the successes and failures registered by the
      project; b) present an evaluative assessment of its performance with a purpose of
      highlighting lessons learned during implementation and c) providing recommendations
      that would aid similar interventions in the future.

A2:   Project’s Relevance and Appropriateness

      The AHIP project was assessed to be appropriate and relevant with national development
      agenda and implements part of the National Development Plan (NDP 2010/11-2015/16)
      which calls for a national readiness effort to address what is documented as ‘the threat of
      fatal viral infections such as ebola, marburg, SARS, and avian influenza which have
      negative implications for health and trade, tourism and investment’ (NDP page 246). In
      addition, implementation of the project in all districts of Uganda is in consonance with
      Uganda’s policy of decentralization, and by design this eventually ensured a national
      coverage and spread of capacity in all corners of the country. Owing to the
      unpredictability of the next emergency of infection or outbreak, it was appropriate that
      surveillance and responsiveness capabilities are strengthened in every part of the country.

      A key aspect of the project design that negatively impacted its performance was the
      approach to timing of its actual start date. Seeking approval of Parliament when the
      project had already become effective caused a delay of a year and one half yet GOU was
      being charged on its loan. It is recommended by this evaluation that effective start date of
      similar projects be after and not before approval of Parliament

A3    Project’s Efficiency in Achievement of intended Results

                                               30
A3.1   Animal Health Sub-component

Under The AHIP project, the Ministry of Agriculture Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF) has strengthened capacity overall for animal disease surveillance, monitoring
and emergency disease control at the national and district levels. Working with District
Veterinary Officers (DVOs) and District Rapid Response Teams (DRRTs) set up during
the project there is now – than ever before- a level of preparedness to respond to
emergency outbreaks in as much as more can be done to improve the processes and speed
of collection, safe storage and testing of samples of suspected infected birds and animals
across the country. The project procured 13 vehicles as well as motorcycles; laptops and
internet modems to facilitate this process. The larger part of the investment under the
Animal Health Component was the construction of the NADDEC laboratory in Entebbe.
In as much as the NADDEC laboratory at Entebbe has been set up, it was not functional
at the time of the evaluation. Works were on-going at the site to install equipment and it
is hope that the laboratory will be officially commissioned by mid-2014.

Other accomplishments have included improving the capacity of the National Veterinary
Services through provision of training on various aspects of response and Surveillance
guidelines for AHI were developed and disseminated to this effect. In addition, through
the improved veterinary technical competences there is now improve capacity for early
detection and rapid response that district rapid response teams have been trained to carry
out.. Setting up of a working and balanced veterinary Epidemio-surveillance program is
work in progress and rating the level of performance of this program is indeterminate
since it has just been set up. However, there is broad agreement that with the end of this
project evidence-based veterinary rapid response capacity for emerging infectious disease
preparedness, detection and control is a very important outcome that should emanate
from the AHIP experience.

A3.2 Human Health
The AHIP project has improved public health planning and coordination not just for AI
but other emerging infectious diseases. The project went beyond surveillance and
response capacity building and developed training manual for food handlers, veterinary
and public health inspectors on prevention and control of AI and other zoonoses of public
health concern in Uganda. The component also developed food safety guidelines for
prevention and control of AI funded jointly by MOH and MAAIF.

Under the project MOH supported Uganda National Health Research Organization
(UNHRO) to develop a strategy plan which was finalized and is helping coordination of
programs related to research being conducted by various institutions (including Makerere
Institute of Public Health) on zoonoses. District Health Officers were facilitated to
coordinate training related to public health surveillance and response to emergencies.
When Marburg and Ebola outbreaks occurred, the resilience of these response
capabilities was tested and MOH working with other support organization was able to
bring these outbreaks under control.



                                        31
      There is now improved public health surveillance system guided by the standard
      operating procedures for AHI on outbreak communication response. The operating
      procedures were prepared by the communication technical working group in 2012. In
      addition to this, the component also developed the case definitions and action thresholds
      for integrated disease surveillance.

      MOH has under this project undertook technical commissioning of the National Isolation
      Unit at Entebbe and with collaboration with Uganda Virus Research Institute and
      Medical Research Council in advanced stages to complete a new testing laboratory.

      A3.3 Communication component
      Both implementing entities i.e. MOH MAAIF and OPM undertook a joint effort aimed at
      increased awareness and participation in HPAI by all stakeholders and all nationals. A lot
      of material was printed and disseminated across the country showing the danger signs of
      various infections, case descriptions of would-be infected persons and how various
      infections present in the animals and in human body. Radio and TV talk-shows were
      organized across the country to communicate messages about how to respond to eminent
      outbreaks and not just AI but all other zoonoses. Developed dissemination messages on
      printed brochures were also translated into various languages. An AI communication
      M&E system for the project was developed but never used since no outbreak of AI
      occurred. While communication was a cross-cutting component, MOH was tasked to
      coordinate the component which came with some challenges Respondents from the MOH
      would have liked that each implementing institution implement, report and account for
      work done under communication sub-component.

      A3.4 Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
      A national steering committee was formed and chaired by the OPM responsible for
      planning and coordination of policy activities of the AHIP and other emerging diseases.
      This was supported by five task-forces on surveillance; public awareness and advocacy;
      food hygiene and safety containment; case management; and resource mobilization.
      These task forces constituted the National Project Committee. The National Project
      Steering Committee; Nation Task force on Avian and Human undertook coordination and
      using entry forms obtain data from districts on performance and issues were discussed to
      address emerging challenges.
.
A.4   Project Efficiency and Value for Money

      AHIP was a $10 million project and underwent both internal and external audits and
      annually an audit report was sent to the Speaker of Parliament by the Auditor General.
      The larger part of this investment was spent on construction and related procurement of
      equipment for the NADDEC laboratory, National Isolation Unit and Human Infections
      Laboratory at UVRI all in Entebbe. The AHIP is on course in terms of setting up an early
      warning system for occurrence of epidemic diseases. However, the delay in start of
      project implementation for nearly two years negatively impacted on achievement of key
      outputs.



                                              32
      The evaluation noted issues related to poor and late accountability from some districts;
      inconsistences is recording expenditures against initial cost estimates, cases where
      activities were implemented long after funds were advanced; inability to follow budget
      codes properly in preparation of financial reports to the World Bank; and some
      inconsistences related conversions between Uganda shillings and United States dollars.
      By the time of this evaluation, while all laboratories had been constructed and fully
      furnished, they lacked equipment and none of them had been officially handed over to
      Government. Only one (1) of the planned six (6) isolation units was constructed. While
      there is growing optimism that more will be done by GoU to sustain the project
      investments- there is no concrete government allocation within the current rolling MTEF
      to satisfy this optimism. However, the isolation unit at Entebbe was technically handed
      over during this evaluation and beds and equipment had been installed and had become
      functional with the admission of patients. It is the overall assessment of the evaluation
      that only when the laboratories and the National Isolation Centre at Entebbe are fitted
      with all procured equipment that the country will affirm the absolute value for money as
      had been anticipated at the start of this project- the likelihood of which is positive (as
      evidenced during the site visits).

A5.   Overall Assessment of Impact

      For a project whose span was 3 years, it is very difficult to assess impact, but rather the
      likelihood thereof. The project made a positive impact on the country’s responsiveness
      through capacity built in districts, as well as MOH and MAAIF for preparedness,
      surveillance and possible response to emerging infections. It is the overall assessment
      that as a result of the AHIP project the country is now better placed than ever to respond
      to outbreaks such as AI, and other infectious diseases to animals, birds and humans such
      as yellow fever, rabies, anthrax, hepatitis, Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Marburg
      haemorrhagic fever, Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever. If the project had not delayed
      for a year and a half at the start, it was possible that equipment would have been installed
      in the laboratories and tests conducted – while providing further opportunities for hands-
      on training for national and district level staff.

A6.   Sustainability and Replicability

      It is ‘hoped’ that GoU will sustain the project investments and carry on the level of
      support provided to the MOH and MAAIF as well as in all districts. Through the sector
      budgets allocations are planned to support the project investments after the end of World
      Bank funding. However, a review of the medium term expenditure framework for the
      next three years did not provide the evaluation with any evidence to this regard. The GoU
      Project Implementation Plan (PIP, 2013/14-2015/16) includes the AHIP project but the
      earmarked resources are those that the project possessed at the time of the PIP (as of June
      2012) and no further earmarked resources are documented. It will now depend on the
      level of ‘fiscal responsibility and flexibility’ within the health and agriculture ministerial
      statements for the coming financial years if indeed resources are earmarked to sustain the
      project investments. This evaluation noted that other development partners including
      Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) have supported such investments in the

                                               33
past and could proceed with the support going forward.

Recommendations from Lessons Learned During Project Implementation

i.     The successes recorded by the project were as a result of the flexibility within the
       project design that allowed for GoU to focus on other emergencies related to
       highly pathogenic AI infection and other emerging or re-emerging infectious
       diseases to animals, birds and humans such as yellow fever, rabies, anthrax,
       hepatitis, Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Marburg haemorrhagic fever, Crimean
       Congo haemorrhagic fever. It is therefore recommended that successor projects
       give room for re-orientation of the design in a manner that maximises/spreads
       impact. In addition, decentralizing project implementation across the districts has
       increased capacity for surveillance across the country in as much more can be
       done in the coming years to engage the current district response teams to take up
       any emergent response.

ii.    Projects of this nature should be designed in a manner that ensures that the date of
       effective project start is after and not before their approval of Parliament. This
       would help to avert the delays such as those that the AHIP project suffered.

iii.   The project ought to have designed a monitoring and evaluation system from the
       on-set so that it guides routine reporting, monitoring and both internal and
       external reviews including value for money audits. Without this system tracking
       performance became problematic for some indicators. In addition, the project
       should have set up a small dataset manned by a recruited M&E officer attached to
       the OPM under the component of coordination and monitoring. While the delays
       at the start forced the project to move quickly on all fronts, the evaluation still
       feels that there should have been time at the end of 2012 to commission a mid-
       term external evaluation.

iv.    Inter and Intra Sectoral Coordination improved with a narrow focus to deliver
       project outputs as expected rather than develop longer lasting coordination
       mechanisms that are key to sustainability of a number of activities that had been
       purposively developed to deliver AHIP results. OPM does not seem to have the
       capacity to build a post AHIP coordination ‘future and it is more likely that it is
       collaboration between MOH and MAAIF that will be instrumental in future
       outbreak responses than coordination by OPM.

v.     There was a lot of commendable synergies in operation and implementation of
       activities between MOH and MAAIF however and more needs to be done to set
       up a national response readiness mechanism backed by emergency financial
       resources preferably through a public insurance pool. Recent outbreaks of
       nodding disease and Bududa mudslides (albeit not related to this project)
       demonstrated that response to such outbreaks is not swift and leaves the country
       looking around for emergency resources to address such a situation. The state



                                        34
        Ministry of Disaster Preparedness needs to be on board in implementation of
        similar projects in the future.

vi.     While capacity has been built for DVOs and DHOs the district veterinary officials
        seemed to be overwhelmed by work. In most districts visited under this evaluation
        showed that veterinary department lack skilled technical manpower and struggled
        to specify personalities to be on district response teams.

vii.    While communication component was spread to MOH, MAAIF and OPM,
        reporting and accountability was vested with the Human health component which
        in some instances made coordination problematic. It is recommended that each
        implementing institution puts up own mechanisms to account for funds allocated
        to them against work plan activities which would have eased the reporting and
        accounting burden on the Human Health Component Head.

viii.   The project exit strategy required a financial allocation within the project budget.
        With the project ended, there seemed to be no clear preparation to take off where
        the project ended. At MAAIF, although the BSL3 lab had been constructed,
        staffing was yet to be resolved. At MOH, funding for the isolation unit at the
        Entebbe Grade B Hospital was yet to be approved at the time of this evaluation.




                                         35
                                Republic of Uganda
            Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                       Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

1.   Emergency Project Paper for the Uganda Avian And Human Influenza Preparedness And
     Response Project, Report No 43545-UG, May 28,2008

2.   Financing Agreement for the Uganda Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and
     Response Project, Credit Number 4482-UG, October 10, 2008

3.   Environmental and Social Management Plan for the Avian and Human Influenza
     Preparedness and Response Project: Environmental Impact Statement
     (OPM/SRVCS/10E11/00229), Final Report, May, 2012

4.   Program Framework Document for a Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and
     Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response, Report No: 34386, December 5, 2005

5.   Restructuring Paper for the Uganda Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and
     Response Project, Credit Number 4482-UG, May 23, 2013

6.   Implementation Status & Results Reports the Uganda Avian and Human Influenza
     Preparedness and Response Project, Sequences 01-11

7.   Aides Memoires for the Uganda Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response
     Project IDA Cr. 4482-UG and Avian and Human Influenza Grant no. TF092919 (P110207)
     — Implementation Review Missions of: March 19-30, 2012; December 12 – 19, 2012;
     November 25 – 29, 2013.




                                           36
