UGANDA
AIDE MEMOIRE
Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
IDA Cr. 4482-UG and AHI Grant no. TF092919 (P110207)
Implementation Review Mission: March 19-30, 2012
A. Introduction
1.    An International Development Association (IDA) mission visited Uganda from March 19
to 30, 2012, to jointly undertake an Implementation Review with the Government of Uganda
(GoU), of the Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness andzesIonse Project (AHIP). The
mission held discussions with key GoU officials of the three mplementing Agencies (IAs) -
Office of the Prime Minister (OPM), Ministry of Agricultu r, Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF), and Ministry of Health (MoH). The Got team Comprised Mr. Albert Byamugisha
Commissioner, Monitoring and Evaluation, OPM/Na  l Projct Coordinator, A  IP; Dr. Chris
S. Rutebarika and Dr. Winyi Kaboyo (Focal Point Offics-FPOsG fog the AHIP i AAIF and
MoH, respectively; and other NTF/AHI and roject officials from  MAAIF   MoH. The
IDA team included Rasit Pertev (Sr. Ag qdture Economiat, Task Teeh er, AFTAR)
Wilson 0. Odwongo' (Consultant, AFTAR), Taqi Sharif (Consultant, TAR), Elizabeth
Mutesi (Procurement Specialist, AFTPC), Paul  uchwezi (Fin   Management Specialist,
AFTFM), and Harriet Kiwanuka          Assis       MUG). T      m   objectives of the
mission and summary of the co  nents o'Fthe AHIP Iprject are pesented in Annex 1.
2.    The Implementation Revi , w      n     ken    rg detailed discussions with
government counterparts of teAs -       AAl ,   d Mo  and field visits to the Rakai and
Masaka districts. The IDA   s    exepr  s its ap eciation to the GoU for the excellent
cooperation and  rtesies accor o  the TDA team, In particular, the mission would like to
thank Mr. Pius Bigiripana, Permah iSecre      M, Dr. Nicholas Kauta, Acting Director,
Livestock     es, M    F; Dr. Asunian Lukwag , the Acting Permanent Secretary, MoH; and
project     iom OPM     MAAIF and MoH for facilitating the mission's work.
3.    his Aide Memoire sumfaripes the main findings and agreements reached with the GoU
at the wrap,fig mee  chaired b  Lr'Pius Bigirimana, Permanent Secretary OPM, on Friday
March 30, 2012,'m: Kampala. The findings and recommendations, summarized below, are
subject to IDA maoagement's approval. In accordance with the World Bank's disclosure policy,
this Aide Memoire wL.be available to the public.
B. Overall Assessment And Key Messages
4.    Since the August 2011 MTR mission, there have been significant improvements in the
pace of implementation of project activities as demonstrated in the following key areas:
i.  Completion of Agreed Priority Actions: Out of the ten agreed priority actions with
implementation completion dates set during the last mission in August 2011, nine have
been completed satisfactorily. As regards the tenth priority action, MAAIF and MoH
'Previous Task Team Leader, AHIP
1


﻿have completed the architectural drawings and Bills of Quantities (BoQs) for the civil
works relating to the construction of isolation units and diagnostic laboratories (for
upgrading to BSL 3). These documents are currently being reviewed by the Bank before
a no objection can be given for the tendering and selection of contractors for the civil
works (see item iv below). The Agreed Priority Actions for the current mission are
shown in Annex 2.
ii.  Coordination: Under the overall leadership of the Permanent Secretary, OPM, the
project coordination function continues to perform well. The Permanent Secretaries of
MoH and MAAIF have also continued to show strong commitments to the achievement
of the project objectives. The National Project Coordifi4tor and Focal Point Officers of
the three lAs have also continued to meet reg-4ly to resolve implementation
bottlenecks. -
iii.  Disbursements: The US$ 2 million Trust Fuid.grant was fully utilized (US$ 1 million
each by MAAIF and MoH) and closed2. For1be IDA Credit of SDR 6.2 million
(estimated at US$ 10 million at Board approval onkJue 19, 203),total disbursements as
of March 22, 2012 amounted to SDR4 I million (eq    lent to US 63 nillion ). The
mission discussed with the [As and it was agreed th at' h MAAfF and MoH will
earmark sufficient undisbursed funds kir the pending c'vil works, construction
supervision, and procurement6f      specialized equipment forthe laboratories.
iv.  Civil Works: Originally MoH had panned tO comp       tw6 isolation units (at Mulago
Referral Hospital,01  Kampa,i an     tebbe Hos pi) and upgrade one diagnostic
laboratory in Entebbe to BSL  1  wever, based on the consultant's cost estimates for
the three facilities, it is evident that IoH does fot have sufficient funds for completing
the civil works of all the three building:- No has informed the mission that the AHIP
credit will b 11sed to finance the civilworks for the Entebbe facilities only while the
4
Mula    isolation Unit will be funded under a separate arrangement by government.
Based on the consutant's estimat'es MAAIF has sufficient funds under AHIP to go ahead
Wth its panned construction of a new     laboratory building (BSL 3 Diagnostic
Labratory). The corletfo        the isolation units and internationally recognized
dia gostic laboratories are c  1ritcl for the control of human and animal disease outbreaks
(whichcover the Avian Influenza as well as other diseases such as Ebola, African swine
fever, Lumpy Skin Disease, Foot and Mouth Disease -FMD, Rabies). GoU has requested
for a no-cost extension of one year up to June 30, 2013 for AHIP to achieve the project
objectives throug the completion of the civil works-
The Trust Fund closed on June 30, 2011. However, payments under the Trust Fund were allowed until October 31,
2011, as allowed under the Bank's disbursement policies.
Source: Bank's Loan Disbursement Data Base.
As per letter dated March 22, 2012, MoH intends to build the Mulago isolation unit under the Comprehensive
Master plan to redevelop Mulago National Referral Hospital with resources from GoU and the African Development
Bank.
The mission has received a formal request from Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
(MFPED) in the letter dated February 21, 2012.
2


﻿5.    In this context, the mission is of the view that the following timeline is feasible for the
completion of the civil works: (i) Bank to complete review of the architectural drawings and
BoQs by mid April 2012; (ii) MAAIF and MoH to float tenders in newspapers and complete
evaluation of bids and selection of contractors by June 30, 2012; (iii) start of civil works by mid
July 2012; and (iv) completion of the civil works by June 30, 2013. MoH and MAAIF have
provided letters of commitment that Uganda shillings 440 million and 250 million, respectively
will be provided during FY 2012/13 for the AHIP as counterpart funds to ensure that sufficient
funds are available for the proposed extension. With these formal commitments the mission
believes that sufficient funds will be available for AHIP to achieve its objectives by June 30,
2013.
6.    The mission recognizes the importance of the completion of the above civil works, and
the fact that project effectiveness was delayed by 14-months on account of the legal requirement
to obtain Parliamentary approval of the project. The missionis of the view that both MoH and
MAAIF have demonstrated accelerated progress in imlementation of project ac ivities in the
last 18 months. In view of the above, the mission re counendN. one year ex  sion of the
project's closing date from June 30, 2012 to une 30, 2013.
7.    Procurement: The mission revie      rogress on      sig o key procurement
contracts and implementation of the agrepd actio  nce the MTR iAsion held in August, 2011.
Except for the civil works, most  heprocurement acivities for all the components have either
been completed or are scheduledlf6r comp 1etin befo  7ue 30,  . A few specialized items
such as the bio-safety cabinet and:Jaboratory stlies/consumables for the BSL 3 laboratories
will be procured when the1-equestd  e\tg__sion 18 approvedy  the Bank management. The
details relating to the revieV  the vario procuremen activities of the three lAs are provided
in the respective components be . A postpocurem  review (PPR) for all the 3 components
will be conductedJ April, 2012. Th findini7 urd recommendations of the PPR will be shared
with Government by.end of June,  12.    T     1 .Overall procurement rating is moderately
satisfactory
8.    Financial Management: The proj t continues to submit withdrawal applications by e-
disbursement, which i s fastern  '   accurate. However, the WAs are still not being
submitted frequently. To addre  i problem the mission urges the lAs to submit WAs for
expenditures icurured on a regular (monthly) basis. The Audit Report from the Auditor General
for FY 2010/11 was received late in March 2012 contrary to the agreed 6 months after the year's
end. The Auditors issud a clean opinion but raised issues of poor book keeping at MAAIF, poor
advance management At MOH and inadequate fixed asset recording at OPM. Mission urges
project management to provide an action plan to improve systems as recommended by the
Auditors. Current disbursements stand at 61% of the $10 million credit with the project currently
scheduled to close on June 30, 2012. Overall, the financial management arrangements are
rated moderately satisfactory.
9.    Results Framework and Monitoring Matrix: The mission received from GoU the
updated details of the Results Framework and Monitoring matrix attached in Annex 3. The
results show that the project had fully met the targets for four out of the five project outcome
indicators. However, little progress was observed in the case of the fifth indicator (percentage of
3


﻿veterinary facilities meeting World Organization for Animal Health (OE) standards for
diagnostics as this is closely related to the delayed upgrading of the diagnostic laboratory by
MAAIF. The above situation demonstrates that if an extension in the closing date is granted
AHIP has the potential of fully meeting its Project Development Objective (PDO).
10.   On the basis of the above review of monitoring results, and the findings on progress on
the implementation of the different project components (also described in the sections below),
the Bank task team proposes to retain the PDO and the project Implementation Progress (IP)
ratings at moderately satisfactory. The task team's expectation is that this rating should
improve to "satisfactory" once the diagnostic laboratories and iolafion unit at Entebbe have
been completed6.
C. Findings and Recommendations
Animal Health Component
11.   At a meeting chaired by Dr Nicholas Kauta (Acting Director, Animal Resources,
MAAIF), in Entebbe on March 22, 2012 (li4  articipants iv 'ttched in nne 4)-'the IDA
mission had detailed discussions on progress 1r4ie implementaion of the Anial Health
component against the agreed priority actions sefott during the last mission. The key points
discussed and the agreements reache 4 ie meeting ae summarized ber6w.
12.   Civil Works: Based on MAAIF' s folo,w up after.the MTRmission, the MoH consultant
for the design and supervision serviceso f i  l  fnits adianostic laboratory was also
hired to undertake the architectural desig,,ad superviion of MAAIF's Diagnostic Laboratory
at the National Disease Diagnostic and Epdeiology Geiter (NADDEC) at Entebbe. MAAIF
has sent the drawings and BoQs to the Bank, and thes tre currently being reviewed. As
indicated earlier, the Bank is expectedto compete  view by mid April 2012 and the
procurement process lea ng to the selection of the contractor should be completed by June 30,
2012. If adprjmextension is agreed, the construction of the BSL-3 laboratory is expected to
commpre by mid July 21ZAnd be completed by June 30, 2013.
13.   Fincial Management (F ): MAAIF fully utilized its allocation of US$1 million from
the Trust Fund The .management letter accompanying the audit report for the financial year
ended June 30, 2011 has highlighted poor book-keeping in the FM arrangements at MAAIF.
These weaknesses need to be urgently and satisfactorily addressed by project management by
June 30, 2012. Accordig to MAAIF's progress report, an amount of US$ 2.27 million has been
disbursed thus far from ti IDA Credit. Two W/As for about US$ 381,000 and US$ 364,000 are
currently pending, as the Bank's Disbursement unit had sought some clarifications on them. It is
important for MAAIF's project staff to seek guidance from the Bank's Financial Management
Specialist in the Bank's Kampala office so that delays in the processing of W/As can be avoided,
and disbursements in the Bank's Client Connection Disbursements System are in line with
expenditures incurred by MAAIF. The mission also informed MAAIF's project staff that
because of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the SDR (designated currency of the
6 The mission was informed that if the funds were not available for the laboratory equipment from the AHIP funds
(IDA or GoU), this equipment would be provided by other Development Partners.
4


﻿credit), MAAIF's current allocation is US$ 5.38 million compared with the estimated US$ 5.66
million at the Board approval date. The AHIP accountant should, therefore, keep following up on
the US$ equivalent amount of MAAIF's SDR allocation, so that over commitments are not
made.
14.   During the field visits to the districts, the mission noted considerable delays in the flow of
funds to the districts even where districts had fully accounted for the funds made available to
them. The mission was informed by the MAAIF FPO that this was due to the procedure, in
MAAIF, requiring the requisition for the disbursement of funds to the districts only after all
districts have fully accounted for funds advanced to them. he mission recommends that
individual districts which have accounted for their funds to MAIF headquarters should be
availed funds promptly so that their work programs are not aff ited.
15.   FY 2011112 Annual Work Plan and Budg     During t  eight months period (July 1,
2011 to February 29, 2012), MAAIF spent about    15,000  ainst an approved budget of
over US$ 4 million. Many of the procurements of goo  nd services have been.:pmpleted or
would be completed soon, for which payments of about U  720,000 arexpected to be made in
the last quarter of FY 2011/12. A major ressa for the short  I  1     penditures is
that the construction of the civil works coul t commence.  ect to Bank management's
agreement to an extension, MAAIF ha propose  budget of about LS$ 2.77 million from the
IDA credit, which was reviewed by the tfsion.   etailed FY 2011/12 work program and
budget for the last four months  the A  B for    12/13  'vailable in the project files.
MAA1F has also committed to p' a           buti u50,000 to AHIP during FY
2012/13.
16.   Coordination, Monitork, and Field Activitis: The details of the project activities
undertaken by MA  F for the FY  dl1/12 A  P we resented to the mission and are available
in the project files. teept for the civil works s4. cmponent, reasonably satisfactory progress
was achieved during FY 2011/12. A suti ary of e key aspects is provided below.
17.   Coordinati  and Moitoring:     gular meetings were held by the NTF/AHI, the
technical Working grqups, and a number of seminars and workshops were conducted for central
and distric stiff. To create public awareness and advocacy six meetings were held by the
MAAIF's projetcommunication team.
18.   Field Activ     the field activities undertaken during the period under review are
summarized below:
(i) Strengthening Capacity for Animal disease Surveillance, Monitoring and Emergency
Disease Control: All districts (112) were supported to carry out animal diseases
surveillance, monitoring and investigation of emerging and trans-boundary animal
diseases (TADs). Supported districts to establish District Rapid Response teams for
Avian Influenza and other TADs.
(ii) Strengthening of National Veterinary Services (NVS): Investigated Brucellosis and
Arboviruses in Northern and Eastern Uganda. Undertook active veterinary surveillance
5


﻿program for HPAl in live bird markets in the districts of Kasese, Bushenyi, Kabarole,
Bundibugyo, Dokolo, Sororti, Kaberamaido and Lira.
(iii)lmproved veterinary technical competence for emerging diseases prevention and control:
Established a community based disease surveillance network in Busia District, and
supported surveillance activities at district level throughout the country- 112 districts.
(iv)A Balanced Veterinary Epidemio-Surveillance Program Capable of Early Detection of
Emerging Infectious Diseases and Other TADs: Pretested HPAI and other Zoonotic
surveillance protocols and case definitions in the dis      Rakai, Mbarara,
and Isingiro. Operationalised HPAI protocols and case' definitions in the districts of
Masaka, Rakai, Kabale, Kisoro, Butaleja, Mbale, Mas idi, Hoima, Arua and Koboko.
(v) Evidence based veterinary rapid response capacity fok:emerging infectious diseases
preparedness, detection and control: Support was p,rovided 'for: flilEnforcement of check
points in the Districts of Kiruhura, Movo, Gulu, Ani1- and AXdjumnani. Supported animal
check points and stock route controls in,the central regioi forU1 d is'  cAFfo1 and animal
welfare.
19.   Communication: Undertc fOUr 6iefing s iMars for NorthOrn. Southern, Eastern and
Western regions for district polc makers'to provide lem with 4 to date information on the
status of Al and other zoonoticise otlobaly         e    ally and nationally. Three
officers attended the SixthTEPH  c  %rencti Indonesia from 8th to 1 ith November
2011. Developed, pretested,pinted and'diseminated Standard operating procedures (SOPs) for
Risk Communication. The communAcation ICtiities are discussed in more details under the main
Communication cOmponent.
20.   Proctuement:  The mission noted relatively good progress on the following key
contracts, Wch Were among the agreed acions from the last mission:
(i) The selection process for consultcy to design the upgrade of the Laboratory at the
National A!ial Disease Diagnostic and Epidemiology Centre (NADDEC) was
compl'Oted;i December 2011. The design phase and preparation of the bidding
documents were completed in January and mid- February, 2012, respectively;
(ii) The consultancy to undertake risk analysis for introduction and establishment of Highly
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) is ongoing and the expected completion date is end
of May 2012;
(iii)Supply of vehicles (2 station wagons, and a film van); computer equipment for
communication component, and capture and sampling equipment were completed;
(iv)Printing of SOPs and national policies for communication component were completed;
6


﻿(v) The revised bidding documents and drawings for construction works to upgrade the
laboratory at NADDEC were submitted to the Bank and are currently being reviewed. It
is expected that the advertising process will commence in mid-April and the procurement
process will be completed in June, 2012. In view of the limited time available to
complete the procurement process for the selection of the contractor, MAAlF should
expedite the advertising, bidding, evaluation and contracting processes;
(vi)The other main outstanding contracts for printing services for SOPs-Surveillance and
consultancy services to undertake the curricula review and-elop appropriate curricula,
at Makerere University and the two para-veterinary schools, are expected to be completed
by end of May 2012;
(vii) The mission reviewed the updated procurement p  and provided comments. The
revised procurement plan will incorporate the comine  raised and include any new
contracts specified in the approved work plan.     4Vwill submil the revised
procurement plan to IDA for final rview and approsal bv,Apil,10, 2012.
21. Based on the progress made by MAAMF in processing a number of contracts since the
MTR, the rating for the animal heWt  ompont for procurement is being upgraded from
moderately unsatisfactory to mo         acto
22.   Review of Component In     ediate Ocones: Te mion noted that MAAIF had
fully met six of the eleve rets a              ee o      ecified intermediate outcome
indicators. Little progressli  been Do e on th e remaimng two indicators: namely: (i)
establishing active community  d survillace system in 5 high risk districts; and (ii) Cabinet
approval of the Compensation pol"' which ha,.een pending since last year. The overall status
for the implementa  n,of this compoett is agt ,ated moderately satisfactory.
Human Hat      opnn
23.   T   JDA mi sion had detJed,dis-" ssions on the health and communications components
with a number of4MoH officials at-a66eting initially chaired by the Dr. Asuman Lukwago the
Acting Pennt ' Secretary, MoH and later chaired by Dr. Winyi Kaboyo, AHIP's FPO in
MoH on March 20. 2012 (list of participants is attached in Annex 5). The progress report
produced by the Mo on AHIP implementation since August 2011 provided the basis for the
discussions and agreemnts reached, as summarized below.
Procurement
24.   Civil Works: There has been a delay in commencement of the procurement process for
the Contractor which was expected to have started in November, 2011. The consultants for the
design of the civil works for the isolation units and upgrading of diagnostic laboratory at UVRI
completed their work in mid-December, 2011, and preparation of the bidding documents was
completed in mid-January 2012. MoH has submitted the documents to the Bank. These
documents are currently being reviewed- The expectation is that the review and contractor
procurement processes will be completed by June 30, 2012. The actual construction of the civil
7


﻿Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation Component
36.  The mission met with Mr. Pius Bigirimana, Permanent Secretary, OPM, Mr. Albert
Byamugisha, Commissioner, Monitoring and Evaluation, OPM/AHIP National Project
Coordinator; the AHIP technical staff, OPM; and members of the National Project Co-
ordination Team on March 19, 2012 (see list of participants in Annex 6). The progress report
for AHIP implementation by OPM and the main inter-agency coordination issues of the project
are available in the project files. A summary of the main issues discussed and agreements
reached is presented below.
37.  Project Coordination: The mission noted that there opntinues to be good coordination
amongst the project coordinators of the three IAs under theea dership of the National project
Coordinator. The Project Coordination Team me et,j s and Abe National Project Steering
Committee meetings continue to be held regularly.  Ject has made steady prgress in FY
2011/12. Actions on the following priority areas, agreed during t*e last msion, were
completed: (i) Environmental and Social Nagement PlanES );NI   )      Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) Framework; (iii) Pub l,Private-Partnership (Ppp) study; (iv) support to
MAAIF for the completion of the arc hitectural" rAwings and BoQs ot diagnostic laboratory; (v)
submission of consolidated AWP&fi fOr IY 201142, (vi) submissio  f final WAs for Trust
Fund; (vii) submission of consolidaed procu ement  or the  eAs; and (viii) submission
of consolidated Audit Reportfor}( 2010/1  The key action th  mains outstanding was the
coordination for the co_letion  the          roce       e civil works and start of
construction for which an extension  h  request
38.  Financia,lManagement: Yhe Audits issued a clean opinion on the FY 2010/11
financial statements. However, as 'in ated  e  auditors raised the issue of inadequate
fixed asset  ording at OPM. It is inortant that PM takes corrective action on this matter
by April30, L012. OPM also needs to prom ptly account to MoH for the advances it received for
the Cimunicatioctivities
39.  ExtefrlAudit The audit repo and auditor's opinions on the financial statements and
special accon of,AHIP for FY 2010/11, which were due by December 31, 2011, were issued
on March 22, 2. The auditors have highlighted some weaknesses in each of the lAs (see
paragraph above).  M should coordinate the follow up actions needed to address these
weaknesses with MAA1F and MoH. Actions in this regard should be completed by MAAIF and
MoH by June 30, 2012.
40.   FY 12 Annual Work Plan and Budget: From OPM's total allocation of SDR 300,000
(currently about US$ 461,000), an amount of about US$ 435,940 has been disbursed thus far (as
per Bank's disbursement database). Commitments amounting to US$ 193,098 are expected to be
paid during the last four months of FY 2011/12. OPM should have sufficient funds available to
manage the coordination function if an extension is agreed by Bank management. In addition,
OPM also receives counterpart funds from GoU for AHIP activities. OPM needs to send a
budget for the activities to be undertaken during the last four months of FY 2011/12, and a
detailed AWP&B for FY 2012/13 by April 30, 2012 for the Bank's review.
10


﻿41.   Procurement: The mission reviewed progress of the three consultancies, namely: (i)
preparation of the ESMP; (ii) development of an M&E framework for the project and; (iii)
preparation of a PPP arrangement for service delivery. All the 3 consultancies have been
completed. Given the importance of these on future disease outbreaks, the mission recommends
that appropriate actions be undertaken by government on the recommendations of these studies.
42.   The contracts for printing services under the communication component and supply of
computer equipment will be completed in mid April, 2012. The mission was informed that there
will be no new contracts in the remaining duration of the project.
43.   Based on the improved performance in progressing key contracts, the procurement
rating for OPM is being upgraded from moderately unsatisfa co ry to moderately satisfactory.
44.   Agreed next steps: (i) The Bank will endeavoro complet fits review of the architectural
drawings and BoQs of the proposed civil works for MN andMoH by April 24), 2012; (ii)
MAAlF and MoH, in coordination with QPM, will have   the retevant documents ready to
place newspaper advertisements for the civiAvorks tenders by April 23, 2012; (iii) MAAIF and
MoH will allow four weeks for the NCB tenders, with a closng ,date for receipt of tenders
expected to be no later than May 25. 2012; (iv) MAAIF and MoH.will complete evaluation of
tenders and recommendations fo         contr    for civil works;by June 22, 2012; (v)
MAAIF and MoH will complete toU Mternal clearances (e.g. clearance of proposed contracts
by Solicitor General's office) for' siging of coptracts by June 30, 2012, so that construction can
commence by mid-July 2012and be1   mp < d       e 30, 2013. The Bank will consider an
extension once actions on plcing the  . tisemen  *r tenders in the newspapers have been
completed by April 30, 2012.               Y"
45.  EnvironmentaltSafeguards.*   The      on took note of the production of the
Environmentatl ImpiatAssessment/ Evironmental and Social Management Plan and its
approva by"NEMA. RevieW of the doc-ument by the mission revealed a few major issues that
needd to be addressed (see Annex 7). The mission recommends that MAAIF and MoH,
togetherwith the consultant fo the design of the buildings, should address the mitigation
measures and comments sent by'NEMA and the Bank on the ESMP and ensure that these
measures are costed and included in the BoQs for the buildings, before the tenders are
floated by April 23, 2012. In view of the above, the EIA is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
D. Next Mission
46.   Subject to the Bank management's agreement on extension of the project closing date to
June 30, 2013, the next mission is tentative planned for September/October, 2012.
Mr. Pius Bigirimana                                Mr. Rasit Pertev
Permanent Secretary                                Sr. Agriculture Economist/
11


﻿Office of the Prime Minister                            Task Team Leader, AHIP,
Government of Uganda                                 World Bank
12


﻿AHIP - Annex 1: Statement of Mission Objectives and Summary of Project Components
1. Statement of Mission Objectives: The main objectives of the Implementation Review
mission were to:
(i) Review progress on implementation of the project activities according to the schedules
and milestones that were agreed upon during the MTR;
(ii) Review overall project performance against the indicators that were agreed upon in the
results framework formulated at appraisal. Specifically, the@view will focus on those
activities that will most likely not be completed by the projec closing date of June 30, 2012.
Particular attention, in this regard, will be paid to the civil'rorks for upgrade of diagnostic
laboratories in both MOH and MAAIF and construction of isOlation units for MOH.
(iii) Based on the findings of the above review, the m  on wilt4pake specific proposals that
will enable the Bank Management to decide on any one', free otions: (a) closure of the
project by the scheduled closing date of4 ie 30, 2012, (b)c        nsion of the
civil works components only if sufficient progress has been m  in the implementation of
the key activities according to the milestones aged upon at M  and (c) consideration of
extension of the civil works componens.and othe activities not likelyto be completed,
because of unforeseen and uav oidable circumstan ces'but which are critical to achieving the
key project development objectives.
2. Summary of Project Components: 41he AHIP Cipdit amounts to SDR 6.20 million (US$10
million equivalent) whilst the Grat whii by now has already been fully utilized amounted to
US$2.00 million. The project has our compNents, namely:
(a) Animal Health (IDA Credit USSS.66 million and US$1.0 million Grant): The component
will support:(i)overall institutional streh9thening for animal disease prevention and control; (ii)
national' AHI1 preVetion and control  ategies over the short- and medium-term; (iii)
strengthening the  a  city othe.  tiapql Veterinary Service (NVS) to cope with Highly
Pathogenic Avian l'fluenza (HPAI) epidemic and new emerging infectious diseases; and (iv)
increased m6   rigand surveillance of migratory and resident birds.
(b) Human Health (A Credit US$2.06 million and US$1.0 million Grant): This component
will support: (i) building the health system capacity to detect Avian Influenza (Al) early, respond
and contain the infection at source; (ii) adapting guidelines and training materials (including
infection control guidelines); and (iii) training, activating and strengthening of national and
district Rapid Response Teams (RRTs), establishing isolation units, upgrading laboratories and
pre-positioning Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), supplies and medicines.
(c) Communication (IDA Credit US$1.83 million): The component will, inter alia provide
funds to: (i) fill strategic information gaps; (ii) enhance the communication skills of key policy
makers and spokespersons through training; (iii) establish communications centers within the
13


﻿coordination/operation centers at central and district levels; (iv) mount media campaigns on
AHI; (v) train farmers and households with back yard poultry, local government officials, and
religious and cultural leaders on the risks of Al; and (vi) develop an M&E system. This
component will be funded through MoH, with implementation undertaken jointly by MAA1F and
MoH.
(d) Coordination, M&E (IDA Credit US$0.45 million: This component will support
implementation costs associated with project planning, coordination, management, as well as
overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E) at the national and district levels. This will cover
support for these functions for the OPM. This support covers theoperational costs of the NPSC,
National Task Force (NTF)/AHI), Technical Working Group * WGs), PCT, and the RRTs.
14


﻿AHIP - Annex 2: Agreed Priority Actions and Responsibilities
Action                    Responsibility            Proposed Completion Date
1.Post procurement review  World Bank(WB); OPM,
(PPR) for all the 3       MAAIF and MoH
components:
(i) Conduct the review.                         April 2012
(ii) Share the findings                         June 30, 2012
with GoU                                  -
2. Addressing FM          (i) MAAIF                 June 30, 2012
Weaknesses in FY 2010/11  (ii) MoH                 June 30, 2012
Audit Report              (iii)OPM                  April 30, 2012
3. Submit revised         MAAIF                       r 110, 2012'
Procurement Plan for FY   MOH
2011/12                                              " '  ...
4. Civil Works: WB to     WB   'F M                April 20, 2012
review the architectural,
drawings and BoQs of the
proposed civil works forj
MAAIF and MoH      st of
5, Civil Works: P*'Khng ads  N    I AH At          April2,01
for tenders on NCB'bsi        2' ,
6. Civil Works: Deadliffe..  MIA A IF and Mo4)     May 25, 2012
for bids                         R-     ^
7. Civil Workljs: Complete   AFadoHJune 22, 2012
evaliation of tmadrs and
sfor award
oif c on tract s. ( with agdistance
from design and supervisio,- o
8. CivillVorli: Complete  MAAIF and MoH, under    June 30, 2012
GoU internial.clearances  overall coordination of
(e.g. clearance'  ofpro-posed  OPM
contracts by Solicitor
General's office) for signing
of contracts
9. ESMP: Update with      MAAlF, MoH and            April 23, 2012
comments from WB and      Consultant
NEMA and include cost of
mitigation measures in BoQs
15


﻿引·


﻿卜嗎
徊．叫


﻿- V "I M
4J M          Q
ti
CD
00
J2
leS  gi  4ý
zi
Ci


﻿斗·


﻿O
혀


﻿叮·


﻿혀
히


﻿옷·


﻿寸
N


﻿>
cn                         m
Cd CD                     _r_
CD                     in
00
vi
C> CD
el
uj 03
ý2
0   0               t9    L-
+ý               >ý   42
CD               &n    u]
41D                        :2
c5
0                               CD
0                               cq
un              C4
C5               2     >
cc                                               m
ob                    44     r
c)                   TA
Cd
CD  0                                       02   :5 -5
C5                                               -V   vi
f.6       CD
C>
-bd                    Pi
Q) 0            -0   tri
ti
N               cd
Cý: CD               e               _c               0
V)                 lu      C4 _c   "0               m
Z                            C-t
ci
vi    +ý
:a  0                  Q> r-          -      0   CD
m"                     cn  0     cn
V3      0
0                                            <   all
4-  r-                                     cn        CD
o       0                     m.           0        CD
cn
2
bo
r-   äp             ä              c.
tu
Dn
el]
C2D
cn             la
x:
C3
CD C'o


﻿小


﻿꽈 ·


﻿Le                                                               Jyl
.3                                                 c)
cu
cu        AZ                                  V    fä
cn                   -tÄ                               v
bo                                         öD
cd
co :i         ý4                                      0   1:
Gel
Klo
C4             v) 0      w3
9:4
cr
r-      Z  m
M                                                 m      U                         te U2
C4
Z2
ön     aý wý
03                                                        å   0   m      vi
c.  a)
c   r.     ut  Z, -ý1
U3                           Goj                                            C4
w2        rn                                                                           E
t  'uý      -  [4
<                                CA
4M                                                                                           Lk,
Zi
C4                                         cn
0   in
C4                                                      79  FE   E      us
bo o           o 4-.      u  0
u .0                                ju
C-i            ö              -d  2
03
-3      t                                      CD
bib                      pý C4      0       0
eg
0                                  tri                0   d
C,i -m
uum,6ocojp-uuo3-
u                                                     W   M   0      C4
cn             5
t              o
42                                                               -r A--  0
Cd                                                 0   0
lm                                  c                                              ~   .-  =  z3 0
.2  Ok      0      0     iz                            jt=ý ås
o                                                     [fl vi
-0                                                 72                -0 j-
;ý                                  MJ 0
cu                                         0                    t-  u   rz  C) u
D.
0 0
tn Lt                                      cu  u
cd
C) t,
cr
tu                              CA      ~      cd      z3 (n
4ý      biD
44                 0  u   vý u           u  p                 -0 -0
0   C4
0. m                  o          cd                    c
C4                                               .-  r).
m                            >                 u
-0  r-  z$            AZ  0 -0       u
72   r- ;z     u   0
V5
"0                        bl)     0      Ul
m
u
44         cd      0          M c~   CD (d          0          c) 0
cp     65
CD
CA  n         Cd                                   n lý
u  +                                    Lt
L-
CS
cu 73
db                da


