Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report NoAB628.:   
Project Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); Health (20%); Education (20%); 
Social Protection (20%) 
Project ID 
P078860 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Cape Verde 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Regional Development, and other line 
ministries 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [X] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [X] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 6, 2004 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 31, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 30, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Cape Verde is a volcanic archipelago, west of Senegal. Its economy has been dominated in turn by agriculture, 
fisheries, and services.  Agriculture frequently suffers from drought, leading to high emigration from rural areas to 
cities or abroad.  Half of the archipelago’s population of 450,000 lives in rural areas across the islands.  Recent 
economic trends have been positive.  Real economic growth
 
in Cape Verde has been strong (5.75 percent p.a.) on 
average over the past 7 years ending in 2002.  Much of this success is due to strong growth in services, part of which 
has been supported by high FDI in the context of the privatization of utilities, and the expansion of the tourism 
sector.  However, the poor performance of agriculture has limited its attractiveness to new investors, including 
banks.  The poor in Cape Verde are therefore concentrated in remote rural areas, while some of them feed the strong 
rural-urban migration.  Moreover, Cape Verde’s status as a small open economy, and its high dependence on 
imports makes it vulnerable to external shocks, which in turn affect the Government’s expenditure plans. 
 
With its first PRSC, the Bank proposes to support the first year of PRSP implementation.  The introduction of the 
PRSC in Cape Verde is a response to the following needs: 
  
\01fi
align donor support to the client country’s strategies and institutions for poverty reduction, as 
agreed at the Donor Roundtable Meeting in April 2003; 
\01fi
provide support through, and for the Government’s own functional administration and budget 
systems – as proposed by the PER and CFAA; 
\01fi
provide predictable support in each budget cycle to help consolidate and smooth resource 
mobilization; and 
\01fi
maintain a policy dialogue between Cape Verde and the Bank in chosen policy areas over the 
long term. 
  
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The PRSC would provide support to the government to achieve key PRSP objectives. By providing the necessary 
external financing, it would support the government in maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework, an essential 
underpinning for achieving the economy’s growth potential and reducing poverty as targeted under the PRSP.  
Beyond supporting macroeconomic stability, the first PRSC will focus on a few core sectors for which the Bank has 
been providing advice in the context of the PRSP, and that have emerged as critical to rapid poverty relief.  Specific 
actions to consolidate state reform will focus on the decentralization, civil service reform, and the modernization of 
Page  2
 
 
the state.  Their implications for budget management will lead to support for specific actions for budget preparation, 
execution (including procurement) and reporting (including audits).   Sector-specific interventions aim at supporting 
human development, in health (secure the strong performance of past years, and help select public interventions 
within a limited envelope); education (improve quality, and manage the transition to secondary education of primary 
school graduates); and social protection (redesign schemes to target the poor, develop sustainable contributory 
schemes, overhaul medical coverage, and investigate flexible community-based schemes). 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
In alignment with PRSP objectives and policies, the PRSC would support policies under three main components: 
reform of the state, budget management, and human development.  The reform of the state would be supported by an 
analysis of the 2002 civil service census, complemented by an action plan; an action plan to operationalize the 
chosen design for decentralization; and actions toward use of IT to improve public services.  Budget management 
reforms include measures to improve budget formulation (including further work on a new budget classification, 
with a view to integrating recurrent and investment budgets, and move to a comprehensive medium-term budget), 
accompany the decentralization of some state prerogatives with adequate budget execution systems, codify and 
streamline procurement, and improve municipal budget/administrative systems.  In the education sector, they 
include measures aiming at expanding the coverage of early childhood education; improve the quality of basic 
education and reduce regional inequities; support the expansion of secondary education; consolidate and selectively 
develop post-secondary education;
 
develop an organizational model for higher education in Cape Verde; promote 
adult literacy programs; develop professional training.  Incorporation of the health sector in the PRSC marks the 
entrance of the World Bank into the sector dialogue on health (with the exception of HIV-AIDS issues).  Health 
sector reforms intend to firm up the diagnostic of the health care in Cape Verde, with the support of a tracking 
survey financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).  The PRSC will focus its actions on developing health 
sector policies, with more specific measures to be incorporated into the subsequent PRSCs.  Key concerns include: 
the improvement of equity in access to health care through health financing reform, sustaining the achievements of 
primary health care, and improving human resource management of the public health sector. The Government’s 
poverty reduction strategies related to the social protection aim to ensure the long-run solvency and expansion of 
coverage for the two contributory pension schemes; expand market based-mechanisms to improve the performance 
of the employment creation through public works system; revise and expand coverage of the minimum social 
pension and FAIMO pension systems; build capacity in communities for flexible response to local needs; and 
introduce safety net programs to increase medical coverage for vulnerable groups. 
 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The operation is classified as a structural adjustment operation, given the policy-orientation of the reforms and the 
absence of physical impact at the sectoral level.  The operation would therefore consider environmental issues in the 
context of Cape Verde’s policies and practices.  None of the measures is expected to have a major or irreversible 
impact.  Moreover, the authorities are developing an national environment policy, and future PRSCs will continue to 
reinforce the government’s own capacity for assessing and managing safeguards issues in a national context. 
 
5. 
Tentative financing plan 
Source: 
 
($m.)
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
16
Total 
16
 
6. Contact 
points 
 
Jean van Houtte, Helene Grandvoinnet, Julie van Domelen 
Tel: (1-202) 473-2329, (1-202) 473-6764, and (221) 849-5013, respectively 
Email: 
jvanhoutte@worldbank.org
, 
hgrandvoinnet@worldbank.org
, 
jvandomelen@worldbank.org
, respectively.
Page  3
 
 
 
