RESTRICTED
FILI:     j;ury                  Report No. P-516
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moy
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON T HE
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CENTRAL ELETRICA DE FURNAS S.A.
IN BRAZIL
FOR THE
SECOND STAGE
OF THE
ESTREITO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
December 5. 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME2NT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED LOAN TO CENTRAL
ELETRICA DE FURNAS S.A. IN BRAZIL FOR THE SECOND
STAGE OF THE ESTREITO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I am submitting the following report and recommendation on a proposec1
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$39 million to Central
Eletrica de Furnas S.A. (FURNAS) to finance part of the cost of the second
stage of the Estreito Hydroelectric Project in Brazil.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In October 1958, the Bank made a loan of $73 million to FURINAS to
assist in financing the 900 ItW FURNAS Hydroelectric Project which went into
full operation in 1965.  In February 1965, the Bank made a loan of $57 million
to FURNAS to assist in financing the first stage of the 533 SW Estreito Hydro-
electric Project. The Bank financed only the first stage of this project
because, at that time, I was only prepared to recommend loans to Brazil in
amounts which would offset net repayments of principal on the Bank's existing
loans to Brazil over the period 1965 through 1970. However, I informed the
Government and FURNAS at that time that if and when the Bank should decide
to engage in further lending to Brazil, the transmission facilities comprising
the second stage of the Estreito Project would be among the first projects
for which the Bank would be willing to consider further loans.
3.        The Estreito Project was thoroughly studied by FURNAS and its con-
sultants, the Brazilian subsidiary of the International Engineering Company
of San Francisco; it was also recommended as being a high priority project
in an integrated program of power expansion for the central region of Brazil
prepared by CANAMBRA, a consortium of Canadian and American engineering con-
sultants working under a United Nations Development Program (UNDP) grant for
which the Bank acts as Executing Agency. In July 1965, FURNAS and the Govern-
ment requested the Bank to lend $39 million for the second stage of the
Estreito Project. This part of the project was appraised by a Bank mission
which visited Brazil in September-October and December 1965.
4.        In May 1966, the Bank invited representatives of FURNAS and the
Government for negotiations. The Government was represented by M4r. Mauricio
Bicalho, Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund, FURNAS was
represented by its President Mr. John Cotrim. As discussed in the case of
the proposed Power Distribution Loans, the need to clarify and reach agree-
ment on important aspects of Brazilian tariff policy delayed the completion
of negotiations until mid-November.



- 2 -
5.        With the four Power Distribution Loans, the proposed loan would be
the twenty-first made to Brazil and it would increase total Bank lending to
Brazil to $496.1 million (net of cancellations). The following is a summary
statement of Bank loans to Brazil as of October 31, 1966:
Amount (US$ Million)
Year      Borrower                      Purpose     Bank    Undisbursed
Loans Fully Disbureed                         267.0
1965  FURNAS - EstreiGo (First Stage)   Power         57.0      55.0
1965 USELPA - Xavantes                   Power        22.5      21.7
1966  CEMIG - Jaragua                   Power         49.0      49.0
Total (less cancellations)                     395.5
of which has been repaid                     106.3
Total now outstanding                          289.2
Amount sold                         7.4
of which has been repaid          6.5          0.9
Total now held by Bank                         288.3
Total undisbursed                              125.7     125.7
The above undisbursed amount includes the $49 million Loan for the Jaragua
Project which is not yet effective. Disbursements for the Xavantes Project
were delayed because the Loan only became effective in April of this year
owing to delayed approval by the Sao Paulo State Legislature. Work on this
Project has been somewhat delayed for the same reason. Disbursements for
the Estreito (First Stage) Project have been slower than originally estimated
because progress payments on overseas contracts are only now beginning.
Work on this Project is proceeding on schedule.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        The main features of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:                Central Eletrica de Furnas S.A. (FURIHAS)
Guarantor:               United States of Brazil.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies of
$39 million.
Purpose:                 To assist in financing equipment and
materials for the transmission facilities
which constitute the second stage of the
Estreito Hydroelectric Project.



-3-
Amortization:                   Term of 25 years, including a
5-year grace period, with semi-
annual payment dates of July 1
and January 1, and payments
beginning on July 1, 1971 and
ending on July 1, 1991.
Interest rate:                  6 percent per annum.
Commitment charge:              3/8 of one percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report on the second stage of the Estreito Hydro-
electric Project (No. TO-539.) is attached.  This report is a supplement to
Appraisal Report No. TO-459a which was distributed to the Executive Directors
in February 1965 (R65-26).
8.        The Estreito Hydroelectric Project will provide power to the South
Central region of the country. The demand for power in that region has been
reviewed by CANAMBRA. CANAMBRA studies also show that the output of the
Estreito plant will be absorbed as soon as the plant is placed in operation
in 1971.
9.        FURNAS is a wholesaler which sells most of its power to the cities
of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo through two subsidiaries of Brazilian Light
and Power Cy. Ltd., a Canadian holding company. Expansion programs of the
transmission and distribution systems of these cities have been undertaken,
FURNAS has also entered into a long-term contract with Centrais Eletricas
de Minas Gerais S.A. (CEMIG), a Bank borrower, for the sale of power in the
State of Minas Gerais.
10.       The FURNAS Company was organized in 1957.  It is an autonomous
entity in which Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS), a federal
holding company responsible for national power development and planning,
holds a participation of more than 90 percent. FURNAS' Board and Management
are experienced and competent and with the assistance of consulting engineers
they should be able to carry out the Project efficiently.
11.       The second stage of the Project consists of two high-voltage
transLiaeion lines to the cities of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, respective-
ly, of short high-voltage lines connecting sub-stations around the city of
Rio de Janeiro and the related expansion of sub-stations.
12.       The total cost of the two stages of the Estreito Project is
estimated at $140 million equivalent.  The estimated cost of the total ex-
pansion program of the Company for the 1966-1971 period is about $186
million. This program would be financed from the following sources:



Percent
Net Internal Cash Generation                       31.8
New Share Capital (ELETROBRAS)                    11.1
AID Loan (FURNAS Transmission)                     6.0
IBRD Loan 403-BR (Estreito - First Stage)          30.5
IBRD Proposed Loan (Estreito - Second Stage)       21.0
ELETROBRAS Loan                                    0.6
101 0
Net Decrease in Cash                               (1.0)
100.0
Bank lending would cover the cost of equipment and materials procured abroad
or in Brazil under international competitive bidding and would represent
about 51 percent of the total expansion program. Satisfactory assurances
have been received that all necessary funds to carry out the Project will
be provided either by ELETROBRAS or the Government.
13.       The Government and FURNAS have agreed to establish and maintain
tariffs in accordance with the prevailing power rate legis'ation which
essentially provides that the power companies shall earn a 10 percent
return on revalued investment after covering all operating expenses inclu-
ding depreciation (see Section 5.15 of the Loan Agreement (Amended) ).
This arrangement should result in a satisfactory level of net operating
income. The debt service coverage over the period would be adequate. The
Company has agreed to limit its debt to two-thirds of the value of its
total fixed assets (net of depreciation) (see Section 5.16 of the Loan Agree-
ment (Amended) ).
14.       To protect the Company against changes in the tariff regime in
effect on the date of the proposed Agreements which would, in the judgment
of the Bank, adversely affect the Company's operations, the Government,
the Bank and the Company have also agreed that such adverse changes in
legislation would, at the Bank's option, constitute an event of default
(see Section 6.02 (iii) of the Loan Agreement (Amended) ). The Government
and FURNAS will be informed in writing of the standard which the Bank in-
tends to employ for this purpose. (See Supplemental Letter on electricity
rates).
15.       In accordance with an agreement reached with the Government and
previous Bank borrowers in the power sector, including FURNAS, the proposed
Loan is intended to cover the procurement of equipment and materials on
the basis of international competitive bidding with Brazilian suppliers
participating with a preference of 15 percent in lieu of customs duties.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AD AUTHORITY
16.       The Draft Loan Agreement (Amended) between the Bank and Central
Eletrica de Furnas S.A. (FURNAS), the Draft Guarantee Agreement (Amended)
between the United States of Brazil and the Bank, the Draft Supplemental Letter
on Electricity Rates, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.



17.       The proposed Agreements cover the whole Estreito Project and
therefore constitute an amendment of the previous loan documents for the
first stage of the Project and then consolidation with those for its
second stage. Most of the provisions contained in the Agreements of
Loan 403-BR to FURNAS have been incorporated into the proposed Agreements,
the only substantial difference being in the provisions relating to power
rates as explained in paras. 13 and 14 above.
18.       The Guarantor is authorized by existing legislation to give its
guarantee to the proposed Loan.
PART V - THE ECONOMIY
19.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Brazil" (No. WH-161a) was circulated to the Executive Directors
in June 1966. Additional information on the current economic situation is
included in the economic section of the report on the proposed Power Dis-
tribution Loans.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICILES OF AGREN4ENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECaZ2lMNDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Central Eletrica de Furnas S.A.
in an amount equivalent to US$39,000,000 to be
guaranteed by The United States of Brazil



-6-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Central Eletrica de Furnas S.A. to
be guaranteed by The United States of Brazil, in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million United States dollars
(US$39,000,000), to mature on and prior to July 1, 1991, to bear interest
at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Amended) (Estreito
Hydroelectric Project) between the Bank and Central Eletrica de Fbrnas S0.,
and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Amended) (Estreito Hydroelectric
Project) between The United States of Brazil and the Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
Attachment                                           George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C.
December 5, 1966



