Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4089 TU
                               Loan Agreement
      (Baku-Ceyhan Oil Export Pipeline Technical Assistance Project)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated September 29, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4089 TU
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by Boru Hatlari ile Petrol
Tasima A.S. (BOTAS) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to BOTAS the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May
30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BOTAS" means a legal entity, organized and existing under
the laws of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors
thereto;
     (b)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by
BOTAS for the implementation of the Project;
     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Steering Committee" means the committee of the Borrower
consisting of a representative of the Borrower's Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
the Borrower's Undersecretariat of Treasury, BOTAS and Turkiye Anonim
Ortakligi (TPAO); and
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BOTAS pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to five million Dollars ($5,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15
and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end shall cause BOTAS to carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative,
engineering and environmental practices, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources necessary or appropriate to enable BOTAS to carry out the
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by BOTAS.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the
Loan to BOTAS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered between
the Borrower and BOTAS under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, which shall include the terms and conditions specified in the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as
such Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time by the
agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
of any such agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall at all times: (a) maintain the PIU
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and with
staff whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are satis-
factory to the Bank; and
     (b)  maintain the Steering Committee with members, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
     Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achieve-
ment of the Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  4
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each fiscal year, audited in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BOTAS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BOTAS will be able to perform its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BOTAS
or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
Page  5
                              ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower shall have provided evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that the transit countries on whose territories the Project shall
be carried out have no objection to the Project;
     (b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed by the
parties thereto; and
     (c)  a contract shall have been signed by BOTAS for the provision
of consultants' services under the Project.
     Section. 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Mustesarligi
          Inonu Bulvari
          Emek - Ankara
          Republic of Turkey
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MALIYE                         821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
               Hazine, Ankara                 821-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                     248423 (MCI)
                Washington, D.C.               64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America as of the day and year first above written.
                              REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                              By /s/ A. Karaoz
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  6
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By /s/ K. Lay
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed:
                      Amount of the
                     Loan Allocated              % of
                     (Expressed in           Expenditures
     Category           Dollars)            to be Financed
     Consultants'      5,000,000            100%
     services
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
consultants' services under contracts costing less than $100,000
equivalent for the employment of consulting firms and under contracts
costing less than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of individual
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives  of the Project are to identify and evaluate a
technically, financially and environmentally sound and sustainable
pipeline route for the transport of crude oil from Baku, Azerbaijan,
to Ceyhan, Turkey, for export to international markets.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Update of Studies
     Updating of the existing studies carried out by BOTAS on proposed
pipeline routes and configuration for the transport of crude oil from
Baku, Azerbaijan, to Ceyhan, Turkey.
Part B:     Feasibility Study
     Preparation of a feasibility study of pipeline route options and
configuration for the transport of up to 45mt. per annum of crude oil
from Baku, Azerbaijan, to Ceyhan, Turkey, under various throughput
scenarios, together with a recommendation of a technically, financially
and environmentally sustainable route and a recommendation of a
realistic commercial structure for constructing and operating the
selected pipeline route and configuration.
Part C:     Environmental Audit
Page  7
     Carrying out of an environmental audit of the proposed pipeline
routes to establish that said routes are environmentally safe and
sustainable.
                                 * * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next
following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first
day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which
such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its
Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as
described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final
repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a
rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have
the following meanings:
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
Page  8
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
               Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a per-
centage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
               Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
               the London interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
               outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall
become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the twelfth (12th) Interest Payment
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each
installment shall be one-sixth (1/6) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after June 15, 2005,
the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all
Page  9
such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                            Consultants' Services
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
A.   The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to BOTAS on the
following terms and conditions: (1) the Borrower shall onlend to BOTAS
amounts in Dollars equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan; (2) the term
of the Subsidiary Loan shall be six (6) years, including a grace period
of three (3) years; (3) the Borrower shall charge BOTAS a commitment fee
at a rate equal to the rate of commitment charge payable under Section
2.04 of this Agreement; (4) the Borrower shall charge BOTAS interest
on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.05
of this Agreement; and (5) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the respective
dates of repayment) of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn
from the Loan Account on account of expenditures for the Project.
B.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, obtain, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, all permits and approvals required from the
transit countries on whose territories the Project shall be carried out.
C.   BOTAS shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   BOTAS shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following
timetable:
     (1)  preparation of the final inception report by January 31, 1997,
which report shall describe: (a) the scope and objectives of the Project;
(b) the methodology to be applied in carrying out the Project; and (c)
the proposed table of contents of the report;
     (2)  preparation of the draft final report by July 31, 1997 which
report shall contain a complete description of the proposed pipeline
route and configuration, as well as the proposed investment cost
Page  10
estimates and technical, financial, economic and environmental justi-
fications for said proposed pipeline route and configuration;
     (3)  preparation and review of the final report by August 31, 1997,
which report shall be reviewed by the Bank and the Steering Committee;
and
     (4)  preparation and submission to the Borrower and the Bank of the
final report by October 31, 1997, which report shall incorporate the
comments and recommendations resulting from the review referred to in
paragraph (3) hereof.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in
               the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category, shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
