FILE COPY                                 Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2297-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977            May 5, 1978
Currency Unit     =      Cruzeiro (Cr$)            =  Cr$
US$1              =      Cr$14.10                  =  17.27
Cr$l              =      US$0.07                   =   0.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB                 Bank of Brazil
BNB                Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
CEPA-BA            Bahia State Agricultural Planning Commission
CERB               Rural Engineering Company of Bahia
EMATER-BA          Bahia Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
EMBRAPA            Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
EPABA              Bahian Agricultural Research Company
INTERBA            Bahian Land Institute
POLONORDESTE       Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast
SUDENE             Northeast Development Superintendency
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$37 million equivalent
Terms:               Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace at 7.5%
interest per annum
Prolect
Description:       The project is designed to raise agricultural production
and farm income in the greater part of the state of
Bahia's Paraguacu River basin. It provides for credit to
small farmers, strengthening of support services, and
infrastructural improvements.  Most of the beneficiaries
would be farmers whose present incomes are below the
poverty level. It would consist of:
Credit (35%) for investments to improve and expand
agricultural production by about 17,000 small farmers
and small livestock operations; for incremental working
capital; and for land purchase.
Agricultural Services (25%), including extension and
demonstration, research and seed production, input supply
and mechanization services, marketing and storage, assis-
tance to cooperative societies, and irrigation technical
assistance.
Infrastructure (35%) including upgrading and construction
of access roads, water supply systems, multi-purpose dams,
and health and education facilities.
Project Administration (5%), including project management,
monitoring, and evaluation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                           ---(US$ Millions)----
Local  Foreign  Total
Agricultural Services                   17.72    2.29   20.01
Credit                                  24.79    3.00   27.79
Investment                              14.94    1.97   16.91
Incremental Working Capital              8.00    1.03    9.03
Land Purchase                            1.85     -       1.85
Infrastructure                         20.54    7.42   27.96
Roads, Dams, Storage                    12.91    5.88   18.79
Health, Education and
Water Supply                           7.81    1.56    9.37
Project Administration                   3.33    0.37    3.70
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    66.56   13.10   79.66
Physical Contingencies                 4.09    0.80    4.89
Price Contingencies                   18.45    3.62   22.07
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     89.10   17.52  106.62
Financing Plan:                              US$ Million
Government                  69.6
IBRD                        37.0
TOTAL                      106.6
Estimated
Disbursements:                         ------US$ Million by Fiscal Year-------
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual              2.2    5.1    8.7   11.3    8.1    1.6
Cumulative          2.2    7.3   16.0   27.3   35.4   37.0
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return is estimated at 15% for the
parts of the project with directly quantifiable benefits,
which represent 76% of the total costs of the project.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2009A-BR, dated May 19, 1978.
1/   Project costs have been calculated on the basis of the exchange rate at
the end of 1977 (US$1=Cr$15).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the folLowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$37.0 million to
help finance the Bahia Rural Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth
in GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments
performance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversif:ication significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the
early 1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes it more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resuLted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 excep-
tionally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other
exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Reports for the urban transport and COPESUL petro-
chemical projects (P-2254-BR and P-2246-BR) dated April 25 and 27, 1978
respectively.



- 2 -
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention
in recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported
goods in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were
already building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world economic
crisis. Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the
subsequent two years reaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has
employed a wide range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation.
Interest rate policy has in general been realistic, except in the agricultural
sector where systematic subsidization of interest rates has complicated
monetary management. Particularly significant is the much greater control now
exercised by the Federal Government over the investment programs of public
sector decentralized agencies. There is evidence that these policies are
having effect. Inflation for 1977 was some 39%, and in the second half of
1977 inflation slowed to a rate of some 30% on an annual basis. If the
Government continues to exercise careful control over monetary and fiscal
policy, further headway against inflation is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance of payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in Brazil.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture received
explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved over
the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the priority
given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising the
living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier lands
of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive schemes
have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's industrial
development strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs in
steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods.
Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early
1980s. Beyond that point these same industries may develop a good export
potential.



8.        Public sector investment accounts for more than half of total
fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. Federal investment is heavily
concentrated in infrastructure and basic industry. These two areas together
account for about 70% of total investment by federal Government agencies and
enterprises. Regional development and social programs absorb most of the
remaining 30%. Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public investment reflected
a heavy emphasis on road construction and regional development. The 2nd
National Development Plan (1975-79) added a massive program of import substi-
tution in basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in the pace of social
programs. Since 1977, however, severe restraints have been placed on public
investment, in order to reduce a growing public sector savings gap and the
accompanying balance-of-payments deficit. The sectors most affected are road
and rail transport, whose ambitious expansion plans have been cut back sharply.
Investments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at a high
level, and in basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and petro-
leum, are being stepped up considerably. The share of regional development
programs in total federal iinvestment has now stabilized at about 7%. The
percentage allocated to social investment is increasing gradually, reflect-
ing continued expansion of federal investment in housing, water supply and
sewerage, and other urban development programs. State and municipal govern-
ments also devote a substantial proportion of their resources to health,
education, welfare and other public services.
9.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country's poverty problem and accepts responsibility for
its alleviation. While, l:Lke the previous Government, it believes that
a high rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it
does not believe that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough
and has formulated a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution with
growth." To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social
programs initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures
in three broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social
services; and (c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended
to have a favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is
designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which in some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based
on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous
whole. Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The Bank has made loans for integrated rural development in three of these
sub-regions, and various others are in preparation.



- 4 -
11.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The
Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the
previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given
by the National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which
will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. In November 1974, the
Government revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and the real minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976.
While in 1977 the Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does
not signify any basic change in its longer term goal of improving income
distribution.
12.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently
improve upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising
at an average rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down
to only 2.8% a year in real terms during this period. The outlook for
Brazil's principal export commodities is quite favorable for the next several
years, and it is expected that the good overall export performance projected
here can be achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present
exchange rate policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports.
On the import side, several major import-substitution programs are already
having a notable impact. The further development of these programs should
enable Brazil to continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,



- 5 -
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign
exchange reserves ensures that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will
depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its guarantee to
loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it
is projected tentatively ithat the public debt service ratio will peak in the
late 1970s at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is
projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the values of its exports by an
average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic management provides grounds for confidence in the main-
tenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can be
no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will continue
to be necessary.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
14.       By March 31, 1978 the Bank had made 77 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$3,617.4 million, of which 39 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing
to an average of US$150 million per year during FY70-75, reaching US$248
million in FY75, US$202 million in FY76, and US$267 in FY77. During the first
half of FY78 US$129 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in
FY76 was due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disburse-
ments are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
15.       Since FY75, Bank lending to Brazil has amounted to between US$400
and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million; and in FY77, seven loans
totalling US$425 million were approved. So far in FY78, eight loans totalling
US$668 million have been approved. Work is relatively advanced on the prepara-
tion of an aluminum project, an industrial pollution control project, a water
supply and sewerage project in the northeastern states of Bahia, Ceara and
Pernambuco, and a site and services project for Recife, Salvador (Bahia) and
Sao Paulo.
16.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends
continue, as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstand-
ing would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service
would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and
private) external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.8%.



- 6 -
17.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of March 31, 1978, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$204 million had been cancelled, repaid
or sold. Of the balance of US$128 million, US$101 million represent loans
and US$27 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to March 31, 1978
is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
18.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development obiectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segment of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. The proposed project and
other loans in preparation for integrated rural development projects in the
Northeast are addressed to this objective. They are designed to provide
credit, productive services, and social and physical infrastructure to low-
income farmers and small-scale enterprises. The loans for nutrition research
and development, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as for
integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas
Gerais, Ceara and Paraiba were all designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups are in
preparation, including a rural education project in the Northeast, additional
integrated rural development projects in the Northeast, and several additional
projects which will reach low-income groups in urban areas: a medium-sized
cities development project, and a second urban transport project.
19.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically through
rational selection of investment projects. The institution-building objective
has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the transportation
sector where there has been emphasis on the rational selection of investments,
the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways'
financial performance.
20.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector very much supports this objec-
tive, since it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer projects



is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective would be achieved
through the aluminum project now being prepared.
21.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Five co-financing operations for
Brazil, totaling US$204 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
Agricultural Products
22.       The most important agricultural products for Brazil's domestic market
include manioc, maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus
fruit, dairy products, poultry, beef and swine; and important for both the
export and domestic market are coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton, and cocoa.
Coffee, soybeans and sugar generated 42% of the country's total export earnings
in 1976. Brazil is still the largest exporter of coffee in the world, although
its share of the world market has declined from 50% in the early 1950s to about
25% at present. With the decline in Cuban production since 1970, Brazil is
now the largest producer of cane sugar in the world. The production of
soybeans has increased from less than one million tons in 1968 to over 11
million tons in 1976 and was close to 12 million tons in 1977, making Brazil
the third largest producer in the world. This expansion has been instrumental
in restructuring agriculture in southern Brazil, and production is expected to
reach 18 million tons by 1980.
1/   This section is substantially the same as the section on the sector in
the President's Report on the Paraiba Rural Development Project (P-2207-BR,
dated March 15, 19781), with the addition of paragraph 25.



-8-
Recent Sectoral Performance
23.       Over the 1967-74 period, the agricultural sector performed well in
supplying domestic demand for food and fiber as well as a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
climatic conditions in three out of seven years. The agriculture sector's
contribution to GDP has declined from 20% in 1967 to about 11% at present,
but its contribution to exports has remained significant (about 56% of
the total value in 1977). Recently, the value of agricultural output has
been increasing but this has resulted more from expansion of land under
cultivation than improved productivity.
Government Policy
24.       The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at more efficient exploitation of Brazil's
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms.
This goal reflects the government's intention to provide for an increasing
share of Brazil's growing domestic demands for food and fiber, as well as to
increase the volume of agricultural exports. In addition, the government has
acknowleged the gravity of the country's income distribution problems. Major
measures include (i) increased public resources to incorporate new areas
into production; (ii) significant expansion in the supply of agricultural
credit; (iii) reorganization of federal research and extension services; and
(iv) special regional programs such as POLONORDESTE   (see para. 27).
25.       One important aspect of the Government's agricultural policy is
its practice of encouraging a large volume of agricultural credit at sub-
sidized interest rates. For most of Brazil these rates now vary between
13% and 21% per annum without monetary correction, which in Brazil's highly
inflationary environment means that they are highly negative in real terms.
In the POLONORDESTE program, the standard rate is now 10% without monetary
correction. Credit for fertilizer purchase is interest free. The subsidized
interest rate system was originally introduced in Brazil some years ago as
a means of compensating the agricultural sector for adverse terms of trade
resulting from high prices for fertilizer, machinery and other inputs.
The subsidized rates were also intended to provide an incentive to expand
agricultural production and, in the case of the Northeast, to give special
help to a less developed part of the country. The main institutions extending
agricultural credit, the Banco do Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil,
are able to extend this credit on subsidized terms by virtue of large
interest-free deposits which public agencies place with them, so that the
financial burden of the subsidies is borne by the public sector as a whole,
rather than by individual financial institutions. However, the system has
severe disadvantages, including possible leakages from the agricultural
sector into other, lower priority sectors, the inequity of granting large
farmers access to subsidized credit, and, in the case of larger agricultural
enterprises, the encouragement of unduly capital intensive techniques. The
possible adverse effects of such subsidized credit are much less in the
case of credit to very small farmers, such as those being assisted under the
POLONORDESTE program, because many of the beneficiaries are below the poverty



- 9 -
level and those programs are being intensively supervised in a manner that
will ensure that the credit is used for the intended purposes. Bank staff
have for many years conducted a dialogue with the Government on this matter,
and the Government is aware of the serious disadvantages of the system.
In the past year a few modifications have been made. Larger farmers are now
required to finance at least 25% of on-farm investments with their own
resources, and a sliding scale of rates has been established charging larger
farmers more than smaller farmers. The basic POLONORDESTE rate in the
Northeast has been increased from 7% to 10%. The Government has felt that it
was politically impossible to move further, and, therefore, most of the
undesirable features of the program still remain.
Northeast Agriculture 1/
26.       The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a total population of
about 30 million, of which some 60% live in rural areas. Agricultural pro-
ductivity is low and rural per capita incomes are roughly estimated at only
one quarter the national average (which was about US$1,140 in 1976). Much of
the Northeast has a semi-arid climate, with serious periodic droughts, and
generally poor soils. Reducing poverty in the region is further handicapped
by a highly skewed distribution of land ownership. Less than 1% of the total
number of farm establishments account for 40% of the area, and in some areas
up to 80% of the rural labor force owns no land at all, though this proportion
varies considerably within the Northeast. Numerous government programs have
been directed at speeding economic development in the Northeast, including
public works activities, e.g. dams and ponds in drought-prone areas. Other
government initiatives include the establishment of a principal coordinating
agency for development activities in the region (SUDENE), a Northeast Develop-
ment Bank (BNB) for financing investment in agriculture, industry and certain
public utilities, and substantial fiscal and other incentives for developing
both industry and agriculture. However, new jobs have not kept pace with
population increases, and the gradual emigration from rural to urban areas has
been coupled with considerable emigration from the Northeast to the more
industrialized Center-South of Brazil.
27.       The POLONORDESTE program, which was established in 1974, is helping
to finance: (i) preparation and initial implementation expenditures for new
integrated rural development projects, and (ii) the continuation or completion
of projects (particularly land settlement and irrigation) begun or planned
before the creation of POLONORDESTE. By end 1977, around US$584 million was
allocated. POLONORDESTE has helped to channel the energies of various
government bodies toward improving the agricultural productivity of the rural
poor. It has had a beneficial impact in stimulating the development of
motivated and dedicated local groups. Nevertheless, at both state and regional
levels, the institutional capacity to plan, coordinate and execute the program
requires strengthening, and as a result, some project are suffering execution
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast
Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).



- 10 -
delays. At the regional and federal levels, there were in the past frequent
delays in funding which reflected complicated program preparation and approval
procedures involving numerous agencies. Recent progress has been made here
(see para. 57 1;cThow) but the SUDENE group responsible for assisting in
POLONORDESTE project preparation is still weak. The Bank is discussing with
the Government new means of collaboration which would strengthen that group.
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
28.       The proposed loan for the Bahia Rural Development project would
be the Bank's fourteenth loan for the development of Brazil's agricultural
sector. The proposed loan would also be the fifth loan made for an integrated
rural development project in Brazil, and other rural development projects are
under preparation in several other Northeast states. Implementation of the
Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais projects is progressing satisfactorily
after slow starts because, in the case of the former, of delays in the transfer
of federal funds and marketing problems in the principal crop (cotton), and of
delays in the release of credit funds for the Minas Gerais project. The Ceara
project was approved last September, and its implementation is just commencing.
The Paraiba loan is not yet effective.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report:  Northeast Brazil Bahia
Rural Development Project - Paraguacu" (No. 2009a-BR dated May 19, 1978) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The project was
prepared by the Bahia State Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-BA), with
the assistance of Bank staff. It was appraised by a mission that visited
Brazil in October 1977. Negotiations with the Federal Government and the
State of Bahia were held in Washington during May 4-8, 1978. The federal
delegation was led by Ricardo Miranda, Coordinator of POLONORDESTE, and the
state delegation was led by Jose Guilherme da Motta, Secretary of Agriculture.
The Project Area
30.       Bahia is the most populous and largest (560,000 km2, 35% of the
Northeast) of the nine Northeast states. Slightly over half of Bahia is an
arid and semi-arid zone located in the "Drought Polygon." Some 59% of its
population lives in rural areas. Over the past decade, Bahian agricultural
production has accounted for 28% of Northeast and 8% of national production.
The Bahian cattle herd accounts for 40% of the Northeast herd. While the area
under cultivation increased 24% during 1960-70, the importance of agricul-
ture has declined to about 30% of the Bahian gross product. Bahian agriculture
is largely characterized by low levels of technical skill, little development
of infrastructure or service support, little local product processing and
resource distribution inequalities.



- 11 -
31.       The project area of 60,764 km , one of Bahia's four "priority" areas
in the POLONORDESTE program, comprises the greater part of the Paraguacu River
basin. About half the project area has irregular rainfall; some central
regions are currently in the third consecutive year of markedly below-normal
rainfall. Ground water resources are limited and difficult to tap economically.
32.       The project area currently has a population of slightly more than
one million, with average density ranging from 74.0 in the east to 8.5 in the
west. Its rural areas have long been a source of emigrants to other parts of
Brazil, and, recently, to the region's urban centers.
33.       Agriculture is the chief economic activity of the region, involving
over 71% of the economically active population. Distribution of agricultural
land is highly skewed. Eighty percent of owner-operated farms are under
50 ha, but these together account for only 16% of the area farmed. There is
some irrigation, but mostly by traditional means. The chief food crops are
manioc, beans, and maize; the main industrial crops are castor beans, tobacco
and sisal. Agricultural support services favor large and medium scale farmers.
Over 1974-76, over 90% of agricultural credit (by value) from the Bank of
Brazil and the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil went to livestock farmers (who
tend to be large scale farmers) rather than to crop producers. Extension
services have had a similar bias, and cooperative societies in the area were
mostly organized by larger farmers. Storage, mechanization and input supply
services are sparse and their influence has been slight.
34.       With the exception of the larger urban areas, infrastructure and
support services are weak. The road network totals 12,300 km but many of the
9,000 km of local access roads are seasonally impassable. The 800 km of high
voltage transmission lines in the project area, even with an on-going expansion
project, will serve only a fraction of the rural communities. Many of the 100
"urban" centers even lack locally-generated electricity.
35.       Health and education services are poorly developed and are accessible
chiefly to urban dwellers., Approximately 47% of children aged 7 to 14 attend
school (compared to 86% for all Brazil and 57% for Bahia); 38% of those over
14 years of age is literate. In the entire project area, there are only 74
physicians and 19 dentists. There are 79 health centers in the project area.
While overall there is one hospital bed for every 1,000 inhabitants, half the
beds are in the project area's main town, Feira de Santana. There is a high
incidence of diseases inc:Luding schistosomiasis and childhood diseases,
aggravated by infant malnutrition. only 56 of the project area's 350 cities
towns and villages have public or communal water supply systems, and only
17 of these have house connections.
36.       In spite of its difficult environment and relative stagnation for
much of this century, the Paraguacu Basin has favorable development prospects.
It is only 120 km from Salvador, the state capital (population 1.4 million).
Some areas have high agricultural potential, numerous small landholders, and
a tradition of small-scale agriculture. The Basin also has growing markets



- 12 -
and employment in its urban areas. While agriculture still uses largely
rudimentary technology, there are good prospects for upgrading production,
partly through small-scale irrigation, and overcoming the inefficient infra-
structure and agricultural services.
Project Objectives and Content
37.       The proposed project is intended to increase productivity and
incomes, broaden economic opportunities and generally improve the standard of
living of some 17,000 small farm families. It would also help to strengthen
the capacity of local institutions, particularly to encourage their small
farmer orientation.
38.       The project would include:
(i) intensified development of approximately 16,325 small-farm
and 675 small livestock operations, and provision of credit for
investment and incremental working capital;
(ii) expansion and strengthening of agricultural support services
(including extension, research and seed production, input
supply and mechanization services, irrigation technical
assistance, and assistance to cooperative societies), with
particular attention to small farmers;
(iii) improved access to land and to land titles for small-scale
farmers by providing land purchase credit for approximately
820 small-scale operators, and by strengthening state surveying
and titling services;
(iv) development of infrastructure through the construction and
upgrading of about 1,140 km of access roads, establishment
or rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes, building
of crop storage facilities and of 12 small multi-purpose dams,
and construction of about 70 village water supply systems;
(v) expansion and improvement of health and education services
and facilities (including construction or improvement of
50 village health posts, 27 health centers and 100 rural
primary schools); and
(vi) support for project administration, monitoring and
evaluation.
The project would be carried out during the 5-year period beginning April 1978.
39.       Agricultural extension.  Through an expanded and strengthened
network, EMATER-BA (the state technical assistance and rural extension
company) would promote increased small-farmer use of improved agricultural
technology and support services. The project would finance the costs of a
four-fold increase in the extension service in the project area (at present
77), training of extensionists and farmers, and demonstration plots. There
would also be changes in the structure and methods of extension activities.



- 13 -
40.       Agricultural Research and Seed Production.  EMBRAPA, which coordi-
nates agricultural research in Brazil, and its Bahia affiliate (EPABA), have
tried to consolidate research activities in the state and to establish stronger
collaboration with -local producers and the extension service. However, there
remains considerable scope to improve production through adaptive research and
experimentation. The project would finance research on improved varieties,
plant spacing and protection, and nutrient application for major crops, as
well as on improving mixed farming systems. It would also include the devel-
opment of improved seed production facilities. The project would finance
equipment, vehicle and minor installation costs for four research and
experimentation sites, and the initial costs of seed production activities.
Agricultural Credit
41.       The proposed credit component is intended to expand significantly
small farmer use of institutionalized credit through the Banco do Brasil (BB)
and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). It would include:
(i) agricultural in,vestment credit for about 16,325 small-scale
farmers with less than 100 ha (including about 2,000 share-
croppers and renters) for land clearing, storage facilities,
small equipment and tools, and establishment of permanent crops;
and to finance irrigation works for about 500 beneficiaries;
(ii) incremental seasonal crop production credit; and
(iii)  livestock investment credit for about 675 small- and medium-
scale livestock operations of up to 200 ha.
The majority of the benefitting families, almost 90% operating farms of less
than 50 ha, would be receiving institutional credit for the first time.
Virtually all have incomes below the relative poverty line in Brazil (about
US$380 per capita).
42.       Credit terms and conditions would be those established by the Govern-
ment for the POLONORDESTE program, including interest rates of 10%, unindexed,
for both investment credit and seasonal production credit (see Schedule 5 to
the draft Loan Agreement). Repayment terms for investment credit provide for
a maturity of up to 12 years, including up to 6 years' grace. The Central
Bank would make available the necessary funds to cover 100% of sub-loan
value. The Bank would be informed of any modification in credit terms (see
Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The interest rates adopted by
the Government for POLONORDESTE Projects are negative in real terms (see
para. 25). The disadvantages of negative real interest rates are well known.
However, in the case of this and similar projects they are, to a certain
extent, mitigated by (a) the limited financial resources of the borrowers,
which makes diversion of loan funds to other sectors unlikely; (b) the
stringent limit on sub-loans to individual farmers --total debt outstanding
not to exceed 100 MVR 1/ (about $5,500) which works in the same direction;
1/   The "Maximum Reference Value" or MVR is a periodically adjusted measure,
equivalent to the minimum monthly wage which is currently about US$55.



- 14 -
and (c) the close supervision of loan uses. It is thus unlikely that the
negative real interest rates will lead to a serious misallocation of resources
in rural development projects structured as the present one. Loan disburse-
ments for livestock investment would be limited to 15% of total Bank disburse-
ments from the credit component (see Section 4 of Schedule I to the draft Loan
Agreement), and would be limited to small-scale producers with low incomes,
who have had limited access to credit and technical assistance.
43.       Under the POLONORDESTE program, several steps have been taken to
help expand credit coverage and alleviate some of the constraints to small
farm lending. In utilizing POLONORDESTE funds, participating banks have been
instructed by the Government to give priority to small-scale and landless
farmers. Application procedures for loans of under 50 MVR have been simpli-
fied. The extension service helps small farmers in preparing credit applica-
tions. BB and BNB agencies are to initiate satellite banking activities for
small loans in municipalities without permanent bank branches, especially in
POLONORDESTE project areas. These changes would be applied under the proposed
project.
44.       The Government would maintain agreements with participating banks
governing the terms and conditions of the credit program. Seasonal crop
production credit would be provided under an arrangement in which repayments
would be reapplied for subsequent credit (see Section 3.03(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Disbursements for seasonal crop credit would be made only
against credit in excess of the amount extended during the previous year.
45.       Land Purchase Credit.  An interesting feature of the project is the
program to extend to more farmers the land ownership or security of tenure
needed to induce on-farm investment and to facilitate access to credit,
extension, etc. Currently in the project area, land purchase credit from
government funds is made available only when, with the lot to be purchased,
the farm will be at least 35 ha. This has been regarded as the minimum
necessary to generate a net income four times the annual minimum wage (around
US$3,000 total). Because of this high minimum size, very few farmers in the
project area have been able to take advantage of the land credit program.
Exceptions to this minimum for land credit have usually been granted only in
cases of irrigation or highly organized colonization programs (an exception is
being negotiated for the Ceara Rural Development Project, being partly financed
through Bank Loan 1488-BR).
46.       The project would include land purchase credit with a more flex-
ible lower limit on farm sizes, from which some 820 sharecroppers, tenants,
and owners of small plots are expected to benefit. Under this component,
short-term (up to 2-year) financing would be available to cooperative societies
to purchase larger parcels of land for subdivision and resale to their small-
farmer members. Also, the state would establish a fund to purchase potentially
usable lands where cooperative participation is not possible, or to expropriate
unutilized estates. By December 31, 1978, the Government would transmit to
the Bank new guidelines permitting a lower limit of farm sizes eligible for land
credit and with an administrative plan to expedite processing of the small
land purchase loans (see Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The new
minimum size would be that which enabled a farmer to earn at least the minimum
regional annual wage for each labor unit to be employed, taking into account
the managerial and financial capacity of the farmers concerned and the socio-
economic situation of the area. The Bank loan would not be disbursed against



- 15 -
this component, but the loan would be reduced by US$800,000 1/ if the guidelines
and administrative plan are not presented on schedule (see para. 6 of Schedule
1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Land Surveying and Titling.  Over 95% of the farmers in the project
area have no clear title to their land. To improve this situation, the
project would expand the capacity of the Bahian Land Institute (INTERBA) to
survey the lands of small-scale farmers and to grant a total of 15,000 titles
(roughly equivalent to the number of "owner-operators" expected to participate
in the project). The project would finance the costs of office and surveying
equipment, vehicles and materials required for a headquarters unit in Salvador
and 6 field offices; and the staffing and maintenance of the system during the
project period.  INTERBA will, in particular, need to carry out cadastral
reviews during the next two years. The establishment of two new review
units would be a condition of disbursement for the component (see Section 3(b)
of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Cooperative Society Support.  The project would expand the state's
assistance to cooperative societies and farmer groups in order to provide
production services to small farmers. Efforts would be made to strengthen
the societies' financial and managerial capacities; and to improve their
marketing services, credit channeling, etc. The project would finance
expenses of expanding the Secretariat of Agriculture's Cooperatives Division
staff, minor equipment and training.
49.       Mechanization/Input Supply.  There is little privately owned
motorized farm machinery in the project area and the state mechanization
service and agricultural supplies company (CAMAB) offers only limited services.
Parallel to the project (without project financing), CAMAB would establish
some 20 retail outlets. It would also improve its machinery pool in the
poorly served western area, especially to provide mechanization services for
irrigation related investment (see Section 4 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project costs would cover the installation of a new equipment storage depot
and workshop, and purchases of vehicles and office equipment. Agreements
between the participating agencies would be a condition of disbursement for
the component (see Section 3(c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Irrigation.  In keeping with the local tradition of farmers groups
building small irrigation works, some 500 farmers would benefit from a total
of 1,500 ha of new or rehabilitated irrigation schemes. The works would be
identified by extension agents and prepared and designed by the state's rural
engineering company (CERB). The personnel, materials and contracted services
of CERB would be financed by the project while irrigation works would be
financed through the credit component. A condition of disbursement for this
subcomponent would be the preparation of a manual on preparation procedures
and evaluation criteria satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3(d) of Schedule
1 to the draft Loan Agreement). Any group irrigation scheme costing more than
US$250,000 would be subject to prior approval by the Bank (see Section 3.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
1/   35% of the cost of the land purchase component.



- 16 -
Infrastructure
51.       Multi-purpose Dams.  It has been established that, in some instances,
small dams would be the least-cost village water supply solution for target
communities and could also serve small irrigation fisheries projects and live-
stock in droughts. The project would include feasibility studies and the design
and construction of 12 small earth dams. By December 31, 1978, feasibility
studies and preliminary plans, satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed for
the 12 dams (see Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Crop Storage.  The project would include the construction and
equipping of six 700 ton capacity storage units whose modular design would
permit future expansion. Improved on-farm crop storage facilities would
also be developed (for funding under the credit component).  At the same time,
the state would test in selected areas two schemes to improve marketing and
production, which would require local bulk storage capacity. Storage tariffs
would cover expected minimal storage operating and maintenance costs and
provide for capital cost recovery over about 25 years. The signing of agree-
ments with the responsible agencies would be conditions of disbursements for
the storage component (see Section 3(c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
53.       Feeder Roads.  In the Paraguacu area there are some 9,000 km of
unpaved municipal roads, mostly no more than one-lane earth tracks impassable
for much of the rainy season. To help provide greater access to markets and
services, the project would include engineering design and construction or
upgrading of about 1,140 km of low-cost feeder and access roads. Their design
standards have been agreed upon. Execution of the works would be the respon-
sibility of the state's road construction unit. An added 700 km of higher
standard federal and state collector roads will be necessary in the Paraguacu
area to support the project and other planned developments. The state would
construct the 14 collector roads by the end of the fourth year of the project
(see Section 6(c) of the draft Project Agreement). The state also is currently
preparing a program to strengthen its highway department's road maintenance
capacity. This plan would be provided to the Bank for comment by December
31, 1978 (see Section 6(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Health Services.  The project would develop a low-cost rural health
delivery system to serve some 110,000 people. It would include: (i) the
construction and equipping of 50 village health posts; (ii) the construction,
upgrading or equipping of 27 health centers; (ii) the development of an
improved building and equipment maintenance system; (iv) the training of
health workers; and (v) the strengthening of state health agencies. The
project would finance construction and equipment costs; the training program
costs; and technical assistance, equipment and operating costs for health
administration. To ensure that the proposed investments are carried out well,
and that the improvement in health services is sustained, the Government would
provide plans for endemic disease control programs for the project area to the
Bank by December 31, 1978 for comment. By the same date, the Bank would be
provided with the details of the rural health attendant training courses for
comment (see Section 3.07(a)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). Conditions of
disbursements for the health component would be the completion of supplementary
project staffing of regional health offices; and the signing of project agree-
ments by participating agencies (see Section 3(e) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
55.       Village Water Sipply.  The project would provide for the study,
design and construction of about 70 village water supply systems providing
potable water to some 35,000 people; the strengthening of state and insti-
tutions to maintain such systems; and the training of village water system
operators. Community societies would be responsible for (i) contributing
land, funds, labor and/or local materials; (ii) operating the systems; and
(iii) collecting user charges. The water systems would range from simple
community stand-pipe systems in villages with up to 500 population to systems
including elevated storage tanks, more extended distribution and some house
connections in towns with up to 2,000 people. CERB would design and build the
water systems and also be responsible for supervision and maintenance back-
stopping. CERB will carry out special pre-investment, maintenance and
organization studies. The project would finance these as well as the equipment
and construction of the water systems, and regional maintenance equipment.
The results of the studies would be provided to the Bank by December 31, 1978
for comment (see Section 3.07(a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). Before
starting construction of a system, the benefitting community would establish a
health society; agree on the community's financial contribution; and agree
also on user charges (see Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Education and Vocational Training.  The education component would
include: (i) the construction and equipping of 100 rural primary schools
where inadequate facilities exist or students need to walk more than 3 km
to reach schools; (ii) the preparation and introduction of a new curriculum
and teaching materials for grades 1-4; (iii) the training and/or upgrading of
1,200 teachers and 259 supervisors; (iv) the provision of vocational training
for about 3,000 persons; (v) studies on training needs and employment projec-
tions; and (vi) the strengthening of the state Secretariat of Education. The
project would finance design, civil works, equipment and furnishings for the
primary schools; development of new teaching materials; training programs; and
the costs of administering this component. Detailed site plans for schools
to be built under the project would be provided to the Bank, for approval (see
Section 3.09(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). As conditions of disbursement,
the Government would provide to the Bank satisfactory evidence of site acqui-
sition and with agreements between the participating agencies (see Section
3(f) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). The state would present
a revised rural primary education curriculum satisfactory to the Bank before
December 31, 1978 (see Section 3.09(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation.  A special project unit
has been established within CEPA-BA to coordinate project planning,
implementation, monitoring and control. The state would also establish a
separate evaluation group directly responsible to the president of the state's
POLONORDESTE management council. The proposed project would finance the costs
of equipping and staffing these units, and consultant services. The Government
would provide a project evaluation program to the Bank by December 31, 1978
for comment (see Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement), and the annual
project work plan (see Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). The latter
would be provided annuaLly for Bank comment four months prior to POLONORDESTE's
fiscal year, and approved by the Government two months before then. In addi-
tion, beginning this year, the Federal Government would indicate a preliminary



- 18 -
allocation of its planned funds for POLONORDESTE projects about six months
prior to each fiscal year. This should facilitate the individual states'
budget preparation. Moreover, the regional POLONORDESTE group now plans to
participate more intensively at state and area levels in the formulation of
annual work plans for each project. These and related measures to strengthen
the administration of all 31 rural development projects in the Northeast (see
the draft supplemental letter) should help ensure that, in the future, major
funding delays in the POLONORDESTE program will be avoided.
Cost Estimates
58.       The total project cost is estimated at US$106.6 million including
a foreign exchange component of US$17.5 million. A summary of project costs
is set out in the Project Summary above (see p. ii). Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 6% of the baseline cost, and price contingencies
equivalent to 26% of baseline cost plus physical contingencies. The
provision for future price increases has been calculated separately for
different items. 1/
59.       The proposed Bank loan of US$37 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 35% of total project costs, the balance to be provided
by the Federal Government under its POLONORDESTE program. The loan would
cover the project's full foreign exchange costs of US$17.5 million equivalent,
as well as US$19.5 million or 22% of local costs. Since Brazil is making a
vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it would be appropriate for
the Bank in this instance to assist in financing some local currency expendi-
tures, especially in light of the project's high priority but relatively low
foreign exchange content (16%). If the Bank is to be effective in supporting
a project of this kind, it seems reasonable to finance at least 35% of total
costs even though this entails financing some local currency expenditures.
The government would ensure that adequate funds would be made available for
the timely execution of the project, and for the operation and maintenance of
the facilities and services developed. Retroactive financing of up to US$1
million equivalent is proposed to help cover eligible expenditures after March
31, 1978, but before the loan is signed.
Procurement
60.       All equipment and vehicles needed (totalling US$2.0 million equiv-
alent) are locally produced at reasonable cost and would be procured in
accordance with local procurement and bidding procedures, which are acceptable.
1/   The annual percentage price increases used were:
1978    1979   1980-84
Civil Works                                      8.0      7.5     7.0
Equipment                                        7.0      6.5     6.0
Other Materials, Supplies, Credit, Salaries   7.0         7.0     7.0



- 19 -
Construction works (totalling US$15.5 million) for the feeder roads would be
divided into 19 construction lots. Contracts for these and the other major
civil works required (US$5.1 million) would be awarded to prequalified bidders
on the basis of competitive! bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
satisfactory procedures. Brazil has a competitive construction industry
capable of carrying out the project works. Since the individual construction
works are relatively small and quite dispersed, foreign contractors are not
expected to be interested, though they would not be excluded from bidding.
Construction works (US$2.6 million) for health posts, water supply, extension
and mechnization service installations would be carried out through a combi-
nation of self-help, force account and local bidding. About 540 man-months of
consulting services are estimated to be contracted from Brazilian sources,
costing an average of about US$4,000 equivalent, primarily for feeder road
design, project administration and evaluation unit studies. These would be
employed on terms and condiLtions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
61.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 36% of all project
expenditures except land purchase credit. Disbursements would be made to the
Central Bank of Brazil against withdrawal applications covering statements of
expenditures issued by the various implementing agencies under the project and
certified by the project unlit.   Standard documentation would be submitted to
the Bank for civil works, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance.
Cost Recovery
62.       The project's agricultural investments and services over the five-
year period (including conitingencies) would average roughly US$3,800 per
direct beneficiary family. Physical infrastructure and social service
investments would amount to an additional US$2,200 per direct beneficiary
family. These investments would also greatly benefit the community at large.
Of the estimated US$69 million total (including contingencies) in "off-farm"
project costs, around US$29 million would be recovered through direct financial
contributions, user charges and taxes. This is appropriate in view of the
beneficiaries' low income levels. The extent to which on-farm project costs
would be recovered in real terms is, however, very difficult to estimate
because of inflation and the Government's policy of providing unindexed
agricultural credit.  Assuming a gradually declining though continuing
moderate inflation, real recovery of on-farm project costs could well be less
than half. Project investments would generate recurrent costs of some
US$6.4 million p.a. after the implementation period, principally for agri-
cultural extension and research plus health and education facilities. These
are expected to be partly offset by additional revenues of some US$4.4 million
annually from taxes on incremental agricultural production.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The main benefits of the project are expected to be increased agri-
cultural production and higher incomes for small farmer beneficiaries. Of
the 17,000 direct participants, only a fraction are estimated to have incomes
above the relative poverty level in Brazil (US$380 per capita). Over a period



- 20 -
of eight years, with a moderate increase in the area cropped, the introduction
of improved management, technology and inputs; and off-farm investments in
roads, storage facilities and various agricultural services, annual crop
production of direct project beneficiaries is expected to increase by US$32.7
million equivalent. The incremental production is expected to consist mainly
of beans (45%), maize (11%), manioc (11%) and tobacco (10%), along with citrus
(8%) and passion fruit and other fruits (9%). Further benefits will derive
from expanded milk and meat production, estimated at US$1.0 million annually.
The estimated family income from agricultural or livestock activities would
increase from a weighted average of about US$655 equivalent to some US$1,685.
Based upon the expected yield increases, the economic rate of return is
estimated at 15% for the components for which benefits can be quantified
(accounting for 76% of total project costs). The financial rates of return
for participating farmers, based on representative models, range from 12% to
over 50%. In addition, the project is expected to generate additional agricul-
tural employment, around 9,200 man-years annually, largely to be met by family
labor. Moreover, the social infrastructure investments should benefit more
than 100,000 people living in the target regions. The project's emphasis on
community participation and low-cost design of the health and training compo-
nents could be replicated in other areas.
64.       The project's success will depend on the timely implementation of
a wide variety of activities by many agencies, some of which have limited
experience in carrying out large programs directed at small-scale farmers.
On these accounts, the state would involve directly key officials of the
principal participating agencies in its POLONORDESTE management council.
Other safeguards built into the project include the annual review mechanism
for approving the implementation program of each participating agency, a
strong project unit, along with monitoring and evaluation systems. Moreover,
the endemic disease control program would deal with any possible increase
in the incidence of schistosomiasis in the project area resulting from the
small irrigation and dam construction schemes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Bahia and the
Bank, a draft supplemental letter from the Federative Republic of Brazil, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As noted previously, conditions of disbursements would be:
(a) for the land titling component, the establishment of two more cadastral
review units (para 47); (b) for the minor irrigation schemes, the preparation
of a satisfactory project manual (para 50); (c) for the health component, the
completion of supplementary staffing of the project area regional health
departments (para 54); (d) for rural primary schools, the provision to the



- 21 -
Bank of satisfactory evidence of the acquisition of the respective sites
(para 56); (e) for the heaLlth, education, mechanization and storage/marketing
components, the prov4.sior to' the Bank of the agreements between the state and
participating agencies (paras 49, 52, 54 and 56).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend thalt the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Paso I
SAZ7L                  * SOCIAL INDICATOIS  DA?A SMElT
LAND AREA (TNDU 6R5)                        ...................
...............                                           B................ ^RAZIL                   REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
T7TOL       A512.0                                               RnST RECENT
ASRTC        2029, tb                                      19,0    ESM?OATE              OEEICO            URUGUAY           JAPAN**
C9@ PDE  C1DT9n  CUSS)                         300.0*       550,.* 114n0./a  *                  690.0        940*         2030.0*
....................
POPJLATION ANt VITAL STATTSTTC3
R3PU^0TpnW  (zUO.09. rNlLLIDNI                h9.         92,58      110.  /a                50,3            2.7        104.3
I  1vAYF'Km                    8,n                       11.          3     I.0                           15.0         28 0.0
PER  93   00, AGRIIJLT[IRAL LANO            44.0        oR.0          54.0 7.               52.      D    I.0         1700.0
VITAL  ST&ATTS?CS
CRI0   9TRtD   ROTE  1/?SU.  Aol            00.         lS,rJ        37.1                   83.9          22.l          17.5
0R,:E IlFA7'  RATE  C/T-w7tJl IAV7                        e.s         a,0                   10 2.2                       7.1
T.FowT .nrPoL!TY 0AIF t/TW(u1             Ig0.o        II.0            *.                   8.5.                       13.1
LIFE E,PECTo4Co  AT BIRTO  (        I05)   S6h0         5s,4         b1./. h9,3                                         71.1
00,ms9   IRR  uCTT30 04TF                    2.6         2,h          ?.5                    3,1           t.4           1,0
'01`ULlAT1o` GRnwT0 httL CE)
ItnTAL                                       30          7.9          2.e                    3,ta          0.7           1.0
JPRA-                                       5.5         5s0           4.0                    a * 0         1.2           0.0
JPRAN  D)P ILoTn0  (I 310  7T1ALI             46,0         S6,0        59 1                   S,t           781. 8I*tJ
AGF RTOICTUDE (PFRCENIt
0 TM Ia YEARS                             403,    0,0        o2       ,7                   Ll.h2        28 3          21 .0
1S 11 00 YFARS                             Su,n         55.0         5s.1                   50.?          h3.S 58.9
oS YYADt AN3 3VEQ                            S,O         3.0          3.02                   5,            I2.?          7.1
'GE  `EpEoItFNCY  A T3I                        n,9          0. 65 0     I, .A                               0.             0.5
!  4I r-T, nFPFNSENCO CQTI                    I             . t 5       1.4 /b                 2.0           1.0           0.
'i'll y 8LAkNNING
OCCEIT'RS tLI'4LiJ?LIvF  TOJU)                ..       ?50,0           .S5.5. *
13rQ9 f0 nF 000RiE   7W01N)                   ,          1. .                                                             .
T300L  100,0 9tIPcE  tTP4yU8h.            P7TO,0    29400 0          34100 oot 'Co,o.                     10?0,0      53300.0
LAF  94470rF TM AGQICJLTtl#E  tst             52.n         40,4         37,8                  oS6            17.0         19.0
J0E  LYv,'  tS OF LAS30R 9mRCE1                  .,         7.5          5.0                     ..           0.0 /a         .2
0N:3.E rlTOIoT8rjTo4
S '0 00T0009 TNC!nwE 9tC'f 9'R-
l.*FST  StS 0   OJIUEWOLO$                  39,9  /     35 oa           *                   37,0          19.0 /b       lJ.2
w14AFST 20t oF H%J5EOLDS                    :1.1  a    oh2o7 0                              h3.2          a"7 7         37.6
L:JEIT   2nx OF .dJSEoOL.O                   3,57         3,0 a         ,,                   u7            0.4 /b        8.8
LIwEST   ao0 7OF HIJscfOLMS                 10.3L a-                                        I  ..  10.2   10.2 7l       22.3
0I1TQIR,iTT1N  (IF LAN3 3wNF9Q4TP
X 1^>   00 T1P  10  39 JC OW4F4                  .,        S, ,                              T,7 
4 7..rF0 00 SOOLLESt IOS 3t 0(95                 .          1.5           n. 0Q
HEALYT *sD NUTPTTIMN
O7RJ~o00nT   PEP vWR00P1I0                  0I70.0       10 0.0       1650.0 /c             10en.n         D80.0         88a0 .0
RO7 aL TIA.I pT I 'jIloOlD w z   p               ,i      3?20.0 /b  20tn . nT               1600p. /a   33ro0o           200.0
RJP LATrtWl PEa .nep000l  0r)f               '7S,n        'sO,0       260.0                 QS,0o         1 7I.0         80.0
'E4 tIAoYA  SUPLrV IF
0L70lrS  (I 11  "FJIPF "F'TC)             102,n0        Oe.0       115. 0                 110.I         107.0         1o0.0
PPnTlo 1eGRaOS *Fl )4,1                     t I.0        h0.n        67.n                   os.0          Oh.Q          7h,0
- :         -r" 17,   ^'rn PILOE         30.0         10.0           .                   20.0 /b       040.            6. 0
)EATw DoTF f/THilU AU OO  1.a                    ,,          .           .                     9.A           1.3           1.0
ED JCIT T DI
ADYJqTv) FMJLLO1ENT 9AT)n
00DT1ARY OIC4OL                            95,e         M7,0         860                  I o h.0       106 .         1 0o0
qErT'7AoY  SrwnL2 11.0                                      .        26,4                    2.          57.0          9. 0
YEA q IF qw7nL!40G  P4JV317E
r FIcT A/0 oE:'') LEvFL                     I t1.       il.0        1t. 1n.                             12,n          12,n
VC7~0T I 7AL FNOf%L`LE'4 T
tt iT rcn!^A?)                              19.0        I7.          0.  I/d               20,              0          20.0 20  0
A)lL' LTrFPACv  QATE t4l                      oI,0         64.0           ,                    7 ,0          91.0          99,0
0E00,''  9PD0 R10    (JR0116)                    ,,         I,O          l.1/c                  2,2            I, .0a
1CC13P01     n4FLLIN9G5  .Tt7OUT
IDE1  OOTE9 (1)                                .,        73,0/c       66.2 /                hl.O Ic          ..          5.0
ctE:  -TI FL eTRICTV -C
70 '1r ALL SoEL.LXN1)                         ..        oR,0          S-.
OXj  F1 LL 0 N 3 C0 N0I                                    0800         55.6                   s.n,
T') FLEFT0TCTTY (1)                                       8.0         12.5                  28.0             ,,
COVI I-DTt I I
00710  0:.-0T0E03  (0(0  ?o-1 OnpI            eh,0n        sn,0         62.0                  270.0         300.0         551.0
'cRsc    3 t^'c  tVEeAR, (PER 1 p              7,n        25 0         35. 0                  20. n         us            80.0
-FcT-rcr0s  (X,.l0  R9R  CA>1     000.0       '4.0 c         00                   50r Sh7.0      70 .0       533    0
'9 S04  T  t(01/04  E(    01                    8,1          2,7          2.5                   3.7           7,0          159,
....................... ................... _ ... _  _



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless othervire noted, data for 1960   f*r - *ny year between 1959 and L961, for l970 benween 1968 cnd 1970 and For Mo8t Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
*   GNP per capita data  re bosed on Wrld Bank Atlas nethndology (1974-76 basis).
a.  Japan has been selected as  n objective country since the Brazilian Goverrsent has shown particular interest it Japan's development experiente,
a1so the two governments have .ndutefd joint studies to identify possible future economic problesa of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan,
BRAZIL      1960    /a  Economically active population.
1970    /a  Ecoesmically active population;    /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inaide only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMTE            1976;       /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65  nd over to total labor force;    /c  1972:    /d  1971;
Iuds ld nly.
MEXICO      1970    /a  Including assistant nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Isaide only.
URUGUAY    1970    la  Montevideo only;    /b  1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
DCFINlTI0S OF SOCIL DIDICATOLS
Land Area (thou ki2                                                                         Po  uIstio. per nursing person - Population divtded by number of practicing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters                               1e snd female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used tesporarily or perna-                 auxiliary personnel with training or e.perience.
nently for crops, pasturs, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallo.                      Population rer hospital bed - Population divided by tnuber of hospitsl beds
vailable in public and private general and specialized hospital and
GNP per capita (1S$) - GClP per capita *stimates at current market prices,                     rehabilitation centers; exclude  nursiag homes and sstablish ..nts for
calculated by am  cosavrzLon method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 ad 1975 data.                                                                  Pet Capita SupplY o f caloris M Of requirements) - Computed from energy
equival.nt of act food supplies available in co0ntry per capita per day;
Population and vital statiatic                                                                available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less ..ports, and
Population (mid-year =illion)   As of July first:  if not  vailable,  verage                  changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year estimates; 1460, 1970  nd 1975 data.                                        in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements "ere estimated
by FAO based on physiological moeds for normal activity and health consid-
Population denaitt - per square km - Mid-year population per square kilomter                  aring  nvirontml tempereture, body weights, age sod sax distributions of
(100 hectares) of total areas                                                               population, end alloming 107 for waste at household lIvel.
Ponulation density -  ar *guare kn, of agric. land - Computed as above for                  Per capita suppyI of grotein (frce  Der day) - Protein content of per c.pita
agrcultural lbnd only.                                                                      mt supply of food per dy; nt supply of food is defined as above; rsq.ire-
mnts for .11 countries astabliahed by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                               provide for a minimam ellowance of 60 grma of total protein per day, sd
Crude birth rate par thebasnd. ara e - Annual live births per thousend of                      20 gs- of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gr   should be animal
mid-year population; teon-yar aritheecic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards era loser than those of 75 grm  of total protein
and five-year  verage ending in 1975 for meot recent estimate,                              and 23 gr_ of animal protein as an avrage for the vwrld, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per rhousand average - Annual deaths per thuseand af mid-year                 in the Third world Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritcztic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from animal end wles  - Protin supply of food
year averSge ending in 1975 for most recent estima te,                                       derived from  animals and pulses in grms per day.
Infant mortality rats (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deths per thousand in aSg  grp 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (frs) - Average nuaber of years of life remaining at                 mlnutrition.
birth; -ucully five-yer a-crages ending to 1960, 1970 and 1975 for davelop-
ing countries.                                                                            Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average cuaber of liv  daughters a woman will bear                 AdIu ted enrollet ratio - ordinarv school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her  orusal reprodu-tit- period if she experiones present  gs-opacific                   centag  of pimary chool-ge popltim, includs childr-e aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; wsually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjuated for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                   univers4l education, enrollment may exceed 100% since saw pupils are below
Population crouch rate (%) - total - Compound an-ml growth rates of mtd-year                   or abow  the afficial *chool aS.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adiusted enrollsent ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population grouth rate (7.) - urban - Computed iiks growth rate of total                       education requires at least four yers of approved priary instruction;
population; different definition. of urban ca  may affct comparability of                    provides general, vocational or teacher training inatruction  for pupils
data anong countries,                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban  opulation (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Years of schooling orovided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban  rease   y affact comparability ef data emog countries                  schooling;  t secondary level, vocational intruction   y b  partially or
e pletaly excluded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 year.),                 VoctIonal enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
end retired  (65 years and oer) -s percentges of mid-year population.                        technic.l, industrial or other progra-s which operate independently or as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 aen  65 end over to those                  deparnsnts of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literary rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
EconoMic depL edenoy ratio - Rltic of population under 15 and 65 and over to                   setese of total 4dult pepulatiom  aged 15 yetr   nd over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Fanily plenning - acceptors (cumul,tive. thou) - Cuoulative number of acceptors             Hous ing
of birth-control devices under .s.picas of national family pl-nnins program                Preron  per room  (urba.) - Averags number of persons per room in occupied
since inception.                                                                             conventional dwellings in urban area.; dvelltngs exclude non-per.cn-ct
Family planning - users (7. of married women) - Percentages of married women of                structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing *Re (15-44 years) vho us.  birth-contro-  devices to a11 married             Occupied dwellings without piped water (1) - Occupied conventional dwellings
women in sane age group.                                                                     in urbp and rural areas without mnids or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
EnPlcynen-t                                                                                  Access .tto electricitI (,.1 of al  dwellings) - Conventional dwelling, with
Total labor force (thound) - Ecocomically active personm, including armed                      electricity in living quarters as percent of total dw elling  in  rb.s  and
force, and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definition                   rural areasn.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                   Rural dwelings coneted to electriity (7) - Coputed as above for rural
Labor force in acriculturs (7I) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,              dwelings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unes,ployed (% of labor force) - Lamployed are usually defined a  persons who                Cona,m,tion
are able and willing to take   job, our of a Job on a given day, remained our              Radio receivers (oar thou pop) - All types of receiver. for radio broadcast.
of a Job, and  eeking ork for a specified minimo  period not exceedin  one                   to generl public per thousand of pspulation; excludet unlicensed receivers
wesk; may not be comparable beten countries due to different definitions                     in countrisa and in years when -gitratien nf radis  ate was n effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                 data fr recent years may not be   mprable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance                                                   licensing.
Passenger cars (pero thou Pop) - Peseanger cars comprise motor cars sesting
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                     les  thsn sight Persons; exclude  Imbulances, hemrses and military
received by richest 5%, richest 207, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                  vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/vr por cap) - Annual conaxeeption of industrial, c-ercial,
public and private electricity in, kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 1I07                  based on production data, without allowance for loses in grids  but allw-
and poorest 10: of land owners.                                                               ing for Imports  nd aporta of I-ctricity.
ewsptrint (layr per cap) - Per capita anual conseuption in kilograma
Health and Nfutrition                                                                          etmted from  domestic production plss met Imports of me,.prist.
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qu lified from a  edical school at university levl.



00    -     00                            0                                                                   0-
00                             Cl 00001000    00o.. 00o.0000000-1-.00                                 00           -  0  000.00000000000  00
-                              000000         eo5o50000goflo   0  0000  00                          $             N  0  o0 00000 0-OoO  0.
-           00000000           0000000  00 000000000  00 000000.0000.00                   00000000000      0.0000   0    00000'00000.0
.0.000          OOOO.000oo0000.       0000000000000000000000000   0000000                        000.0000           00000       0.000000000         -
0              00'000-o0-0            00000                 0  0               0.000-    0000000000   0000000   000000000 .0.0
0 00                                   00000 0                      flo                                          o   0000000
-.  N$00                      oo  ooo  00  0000 - 00000 0   0000                                 0.0    
00000,0.02                                                    
00                  0.0.0'    0 000.                    0  0.   NO   0      -  0000      0  .00-       -  o00
.00  -     .00             0000   0000    0000                             0-0  0         0.000    N  00    000   000   0
*   o    00                                                                                       go    0  oo   N                     00  00.0
0,0.0N                                    -                                            .0            0
0000                                 00                                                         0
I
8j0000.0,000000            00'000    00000.0-1.0                           '0                               00 ---00          .0  -      00
00000000.0    0000000.000  I                                                                                 00   0
00           .0            0.0.0000.00000.0000.00                    0000000.0 0  0  ..   0
0                                      0000       ii  0000  00      00.o0  00    0,0.0.00000.   00.0.0.0,0000000000-00000.000  00 .0
0                                  0080         .0oo00  000  .-000000.0000.0o.           0  ,0000-.00-00000.0  .00
0                                                                                        <0
000000.0000  0                       0                   7  0000,0        .00,000       00 0        .0
0  000,0.00- 00 00                                00                       000,00,000.0,0.000.0.00000.0.000-  00 o-  00
000000000  00                    00000000000-0000.0.0                 00 00               00  000000    0000000000000.000000  .0  0-
0  0000000.0    00000.0000000.00000    .0000 000   00  000000000 .00.0.0
00                                 00                          00.00000000,00.                   00000000000000.0000   00
00000.00000                          .0,0.000.00.0                         0  00  .000Z0t00   .0  000000        .0
000            00000 0000.00000,0                      00  000000       .00000000.0000000000
00,00000.000000000,0.0           00  000000        0,0.00000.00000000    0
I                                                         00
100                     0000    .0.000,0    000000.0         00.0.0000000000.000      00
000000.0     00,00,00.00  00                                                 00                        -          01
0.0000000.0  100 .0,0  000.0         100-0.000000    0.  00000000          000000.0000000,0.00000   00
0000       II  00000 00      00001-000   00000000    0. 0000.0           000,0000-.00- 0000               00
0  00,0000000,0000000.000000000    .0  000000                000-0000000000000-
-  00000     - - .     0  00000000000   00  000000       00 00.0.00000000000       00000
00 
1     00:1                                                            ,
So  .0           0000     00000     0  0000-00000000000-              0-00-00  0000000  00     00Ii
00 I
00.000  0    Oj.0      00                     ?''?    00  000000           00000000                 .00
.0.1..                0                                                           00-000o
.0'-
0000  0  0000 I&                .00000
00                                          00.000  0.  0. H
00000  0  0000 000                        00                0                             .0 .0       .0
-       0                           0    0    000   00000.0.0         00,0.0        0  0        00
00000    0  0.0    I'-                     0    0  0. 0 00 .0 .0  0  00 00 .0 00  .0 .0   00 .0 0 0 .0 0    0  0
00.00-000.1.0                                           0                0
-   -  10                                     0                00
00000  0  0000    00                       '            00    -           00              .0    ..   00  .0
00   0000,000  00,000.000.0,00                 0' 0  0    00
00 .00000000000 0 0000,0 P 0,000,0.00000000000
g  00000    3  00000.           00000000000000.
0  0.000000-00   00  000000o     00000000,0000.00000



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PATDRNTS AND EXTERNAL ASSI:STANCE                                           Page 4
(Million US$)
A C T U A AL                      Preliminary Estimate            P R O J E C T E D
1973           1974           1975            1976            1977           1978           1979            1980            1985
A.  Summary of Balance of Paymnents                                                                              - 
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                         6,596          8,471           9,255         1C,657          13,583         15,464          17,374         20,232          46,766
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                         7,577         14,678          14,296         14,435         14,902          16,829          18,948         21,276          44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                            - 981         -6,207          -5,037         -3,778          -1,319         -1,365          -1,574         -1.043           1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                   - 734           - 91.         -1,735         -2,288          =2,624         -3,051          -3,383         -3,791          -5,416
1.  Net interest Payments                                      - 514          - 652         -1,463          -1,758         _2,159          -2,533         -2,810          -3,155          -4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                                   - 198          - 248          - 235           - 380          - 415           - 468           - 523          - 586          -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                                -  22          -  16          -  37           - 150          -  50           -  50           -  50          -  50           -  50
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                        27               1            -                4              10              10             10              10             10
6.    Balance on Current Account                                 -1,688         -7,122          -6,772         -6,062          -3,933         -4,407          -4,948          -4,825         -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                     940            887             895          1,01d           1,050          1,100           1,265           1,455          2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursements                                                 562             979            856             768          1,024          1,234           1,404           1,585          2,722
9.    Amortization                                                 -217          - 191           - 273          - 384           - 367           - 391          - 488           - 597         -1,519
10.    Net Disbursements                                             345             788            583             384            657             842             915            988          1,203
b. Private Sources
11.    Disbursements                                               3,993          6,080           5,974           7 388          5,218           6,354          7,416           7,370          9,215
12.    Amortizationi                                              -1,455         -1,716          -1,868         -2,488          -2,992          -3,892         -4,649          -4,989         -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                           2,538          4,364           4,106          4,900           2,226           2,462          2,7'~7 ,7,381                  2,191
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                          -                 7                    -               -              -               -              -                       -
15.    Short-terrn Capital and Capital NEI                           424          - 123           - 142           1,961            255                                    -
16.    Change in Reserves (- = increase)                          -2,559             953          1,046          -2,193           -255             -               -              -           -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                   6,551          5,598           4,552           6,745          7,000           7,000          7,000           7,000         11,202
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Totai M&LT Loan                                             4,770          7,034           6,946           8,687
1.1.  IBRD                                                          199            140             426             486
1.2.  IDB                                                            86            203             167             186
1.3.  Governments                                                   529             518            512           1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                     857          1,088           1,376           1,300
1.5.  Bonds                                                          37              25            -               139
1.6.  Piiancial Credits                                           3,146          5,103           4,515           6,076
C. Memorandum ltems
1.    Grant Element of Total Commitment s                             2.5             2.5            2.5             2.5
2.    Averag, InitcreSt (Pcl-cert)                                   8.8             9.5            9.5             9 4
3.    Avcraiw NMaturity (Ycars)                                       7.2             9,0            9.9             8.3
Januarv.1978



_ 26 _
ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHITfESS                            Page 5
1973            1974            1975           1976
A.  mediuuw-and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                       12,571           17,166         21,171          25,985
1.  Financial Credits             .                           7,848           11,211         14,561         18,194
2.  Others (Bit., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                   4,723            5,955          6,610          7,791
3.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                            6,496            8,533         11,461         14,852
4.  Private                                                   6,075            8,633          9,710         11,133
2,  Net Debt Service                                               2,186           2,572          3,583          4,668
1.  Total Interest                                              840            1,370          1,o23          2,039
2.  Net Interest                                                514              652          1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                                            1,287          1,550           1,990
3   Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                            28.6            30.4           38.7           43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio b/                                   36.1            33.3           45.1           46.5
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                          --             15.2           16.7            18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio ./                                                19.4            24.7           35.0           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP d/                                            2.8             2.5            2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP d/                                         --              1.2            1.2             1.4
7.  Total DOD/GDP dS                                                  16.1            16.4           17.2           19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                    8.8            10.9           10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                        17.4            15.0           16.9          1l.0
D. Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (ind. NFS)                            60.2           48.1            47.1           56.5
i.  Net Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                   27.0           25.7            19.4           22.5
3.  Nr't Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                 44.9           52.6            41.3           39.8
E.  Exposture
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                       4.2            3.5            3.7             2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                 5.1            5.1            5.2             4.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.2            3.3            2.6             2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                    Outstanding December 31, 1976
Amount                            Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                     1,217                               4.7
2.  Other Multilateral                                                         557                               2.1
3.  Governments                                                              2,862                              11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                                2,414                                9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                      289                               1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                      18,194                                70.0
7.  Other                                                                     452                                1.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                        25,985                              100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                                 14,852                               57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                                  108.5
A/Details of debt for end 1977 are not vet available; 1977 figures quoted in text are preTlminarv estimare'.
bI  Including Net Direct Investment Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                                    January 1978
_  Not Available



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-eight loans fully disbursed                               1,091.8
677   1977  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas        Power               80.0           3.3
Marimbondo
728   1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sol          Power               70.0           4.3
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755   1971  Brazil                             Education            8.4           1.3
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0          17.7
786   1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            46.0           4.8
797   1972  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               64.5            .3
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry            64.5           1.9
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power               60.0            .3
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement      6.7           4.2
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0          57.5
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry      .54.0          32.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          41.3
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco         Water Supply        36.0          10.2
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          22.4
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0          57.7
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          64.3
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          91.9
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          57.9
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0          17.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          52.2
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0           11.3
1206   1976  Brazil                             Development Bank   85.0           78.7
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0          39.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          50.0          38.9
1257   1976  Companhia Paraense de              Power               52.0          47.1
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300   1976  Eletrobras                       Power                50.0            48.0
1302   1976  Brazil                           Nutrition            19.0             18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0            37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                           Agro. Industry       83.0            83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                82.0            69.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0             39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0            61.9
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer           82.0            75.1
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/1 1977  Brazil                           Education            32.0            32.0
1488   1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0             17.0
1525/2 1978  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0           110.0
Total                                             3,199.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                444.1
Total now outstanding                             2,755.4
Amount sold                           45.6
of which has been repaid            28.6           17.0
Total now held by Bank                            2,738.4
Total undisbursed                                                 1,315.2
/1   Became effective on April 5, 1978.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, two loans total-
ling $154 million for a power distribution project in the South and
Southeast and for a rural development project in Paraiba were approved
by the Executive Directors on March 28, 1978; a loan of $114 million
for a sixth highway project was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 27, 1978; two loans totalling $173 million for an urban transport
project and a petrochemical project were approved by the Executive
Directors on May 9, 1978; and a loan of US$100 million for agricultural
extension was approved on May 16, 1978.



-21-                                      AIMX II
Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIEnTS _(as ef March 31, ivisj
Fiscal Year                            Obligor                                        Type of Business                                          Amount in US$ million
Loan.    Equity    Tot1
1957            Sie.non d  BSasil Ci. de Eletricidade                            Electrical Eqoips2nt                                       2.00       -       2.00
1958            Olinkraft, S.A. Celolose e Papel                                  Pulp and Paper                                            1.20       -       1.20
1958            D.L.R. Plasticos do B-asil, S.A.                                 Automotive Parts                                           0.45       -       0.45
1958            Willys-Overland do Brooil, S.A.
Industria a Co-ercie                                           Motor Vehicles                                            2.45       -       2.45
1959            Co=panhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                      Cement                                                     1.20       -       1.20
1959            Chsnpioc Celolose, S.A.                                           Pulp                                                      4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972            Acos Villares, S.A.                                               Steel                                                     8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969       Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                                Pulp and Paper                                             3.78     3.41     7.19
1967/1972       Ultrafertil, S.A. - Iodustria e Cosseraio
de Fertilizantes                                               Fertilizers                                               8.22      3.03    11.25
1969            Petroqui=ica Uniao, S.A.                                          Petrochemicals                                            5.50      2.88     8.38
1970            Poliolefinas, S.A. Ind-stria e Comercio                           Petrochenicals                                            5.50      2.88     8.38
1971            Oxiteno, S.A. Induotria e  Comercic                               Petrochaeiicals                                           4.60      1.44     6.04
1971            Industris do Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                            Pulp                                                      4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975       Coepanhia de Cinento Nacional de Minas                            Cenant                                                   29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Co.panhia Sider-rgica ds Guanabara - COSIGUA                      Steel                                                    76.96      7.50    84.46
1973            Capital Market Development Fond - PUiCAIF                         Capital Market DSvelopmsent                               5.00       -       5.00
1973            Enpr.sa de Desenvolvi=ento de Recursos
Ninerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                       Nickel Mining rnd Refining                               26.00      4.40    30.40
1974            Industries Villares, S.A.                                        Elevators and Icdustrial Equipsent                         6.00       -       6.00
1974            Fabrics de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                                  Tectiles                                                 31.00       -      31.00
1975            Capuava Carbonos Industriais  Ltd.                               Carbon Black                                               6.18      1.08     7.26
1975            Oxitano Nordeste, S.A.                                            Petrocheicals                                            10.00       -      10.00
1976            Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                     Textiles                                                  6.45      1.00     7.45
197c            Tecanor S.A. - Testil Catarinense do Nordeste                    Teatiles                                                   6.00      -        6.00
1977            FMs S. A. Productos Mealuogicos                                  Iron and Alulisum Castings                               20.00       -      20.00
1977             Miceracao Rio do Norte.S.A.                                     Mining                                                    13.00       -     -T.ao
1978            Cicuetal Siderorgia S.A.                                          Iron and Steal                                            7.0       3,0      10.O
Total Gross Cossitrnenta                                                                                                 296.53     35.75   332.28
0ns  Cancellations, Temtsinatinns, Repayments and Sales                                                                  195.17       8.43   20440
Tot.l Co-nit-nts Now Feld by IFC                                                                                         100.70     27.32   128.08
Total Undisbursed



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 36 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:  June 30, 1978.  Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments oni equipment contracts are being made.
828       COSlPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, L978. The Stage II project will be essentially
complete by December 1978 at a total project cost of US$970 million.
This is thirty (30) months behind the appraisal schedule and
US$593 million (157%) higher than anticipated at the time of
appraisal. Production reached 1.54 million tons of raw steel
equivalent in 1977, compared with .79 million tons of raw steel
the 1.74 million tons forecast for 1978. COSIPA has confirmed
that the project's design capacity of 2.3 million tons of raw
steel capacity will be achieved at the completion of the pro-
duction build-up phase. With the pending completion of the
construction phase, management has placed considerable emphasis
on production and internal cash generation.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30. 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and new towns to
house the urban portion of the population have been constructed.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses are being resettled in new villages
on the edge of tlhe future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.  Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 12 montihs behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in the first nine months of
1977, further improvement is necessary for it to be able to effec-
tively carry out its investment program. The Government recently
decided to deregulate most freight tariffs. Beginning this year,
it will make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services which it wishes to remain in operation. These actions
should significantly improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic justif-
ication of the project and its financial implications is presently
being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4. 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains in the
project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1980, and postponement of the closing date may be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in
the design of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by
CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting further cost
increases. Project implementation has encountered certain opposi-
tion from the population of the project area, which disagreed with
the principles and procedures for land expropriation, settlement,
future land tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative
system. The implementing agency CODEVASF is revising the social
strategy to be followed under the project by improving communication
and relations with the area population.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has improved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning this year, the
state government will make payments to the railways to meet deficits
on uneconomic services which it wishes to remain in operation.
These actions should assist in significantly improving FEPASA's
financial position.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date:  August 26. 1976; Closing Date:  March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource constraints of
the National Development Bank (BNDE). Measures to accelerate
commitment of the loan are under study.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing more satisfactorily if still rather slowly.
Three sub-loans totalling US$12.6 million of Bank financing have
been approved and two more are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at the 21 stations. Facilities and research
programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority regions
(North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in accordance
with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project goals.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
due to initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and technical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project. The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved sub-loans
for 75 projects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 14 projects
in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and 3 projects in
cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. Several additional sub-
projects are being reviewed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.  Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as part of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project: was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule. Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977., Effective Date: April 5. 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1488      CEARA Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
September 13, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately 24 months
(from September 1975 -
September 1977)
(b) Project prepared by: CEPA-BA
(c) First presentation to the Bank: September 1975
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 3, 1977
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 8, 1978
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: October 10, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Prior to December 31, 1978, the Government would furnish the
Bank for comment guidelines and an administrative plan for
land purchase credit (para. 46); feasibility studies for the
12 multi-purpose dams (para. 51); water supply studies
(para. 55); a proposed new rural primary eduratina curriculum
(para. 56); a program for endemic disease control and for
rural health training (para. 54); project monitoring
and evaluation programs (para. 57); and a program for
strengthening the state's road maintenance capacity (para. 53).
(b) Plans for minor irrigation schemes requiring more than
US$250,000 equivalent would be subject to Bank approval
(para. 50), and water supply works would be carried out only
in communities satisfying specified criteria (para. 55).
(c) The state mechanization and agricultural supplies company
would develop services required by the participating small
farmers (para. 49).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) A ceiling of 100 MVR (about US$5,500 equivalent) would be
placed on the total indebtedness of any single beneficiary,
and the Bank would be informed of any modifications in
credit terms (para. 42).
(e) Loan disbursement for livestock investment would be limited
to 15% of total Bank disbursement from the credit component
(para. 42).
(f) By November 30 of each year, the government would furnish
the Bank for approval site plans for project schools to be
constructed in the following year, (para. 51), and the
annual project work plan for the Bank's comments (para. 57).
(g) By March 31, 1982, the state would complete construction of
14 collector roads to support the project and other develop-
ments in the area (para. 53).
(h) As a condition for disbursement for the land titling component,
the state would establish two additional cadastral review units
(para. 47).
(i) As a condition for disbursement for the irrigation works, the
Bank would be furnished a satisfactory project manual (para. 50).
(j) As a condition for disbursement for the education component,
the Bank would be furnished with satisfactory evidence that
the land for such school had been obtained (para. 51).
(k) As a condition for disbursement for the health component,
the Bank would be furnished with satisfactory evidence of
supplementary staffing at the project area regional health
departments (para. 54).
(1) As a condition for disbursement for the health, education,
mechanization and storage/marketing component, the Bank
would be furnished with the agreements between the state and
agencies participating in the respective components
(paras. 49, 52, 54 and 56).






IBRD 13285
r  ~'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S ' '- ^ ', -IAICII 1978
C <                                                                               -  o.~  B R A Z   [
_1 ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T: SA TE LOF B AH I A                                                                                                                                           qoli
RA Z                                                   Paroguacu  Basin Rural Development Project
s-_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   C, stdNS   cA                                                                                               b+~                      I OF\\66m oI_r
A A4MF  PI                                              /I1C AFRAO                                                                           I        .       (       .                                      t                                                /       /         otht>'  .z cu 61v>CkIRPR:0    \  1L _  -- t
i  1.    A Hi                                        htu])>X                                                                                              mi',0'R"X                                                                                              B
CRRR                                                               ARIRAMITASPROJECTDAREA
A 4f FR I C A?                                                                                                                  -,       s                     M-,nh.b-                                                                                                            ' 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I C ...-)                                                                             0. dk-{ C) ... d. 0>-;                                                                      it i    zwX- *A
/ 6eI \ ) \{ te o c~~C~              IAI i I -                                                              2<>                              o  ; ;dCMl
~~~~40                                       0~~~~~~~/                                                                                  ITIBARR 
U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cb
\ * ' /1 ' '} \ Coloolo PPOOK >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ VplZe=Docogt . ! ......... NovolhliDel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   /C.. N
' '' 91 \ *+ dumo ,Qanansiras ' + Ibirrquirp ......... O M N
I / e \ i r 8)~~~~~ ,_ N/~R~R~A   Pe\ ,a                                                                             _          ERROTIRa /                                                                                    TO;NOAI~    ORoPBTCPASd.L   FAR M8CMMNTE
Mt    O ARR  8 X (z           R NO d   X        ,..                tT                                                  C IR M I  ', ,,    \  G . I /                                                                  P R R'R  RRJI_  MEER LNCSRASU PA E
,.                  BAIXARNR  R6 NDES
TOUTER  _OARES            - CROoUAI~R'   .                                      80               I i,   \ dL .oC                                                                                      GS     O
_3                  i,,S                                                                                                                                                               9ANGIERU \   \KWMS
_ReIRRE-C                                                                                                                      SERRA PRETA    TI'ON
M4   P......     S...AU
0WAG                                                                                     10 0O            3RS0GR ER.'R
A IRA                                 DOSlNCCETA                                                                                                                                                                  o o     R     i  Ko,RRDA1
-7, . kd.                                                                                                                                                                         s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ CeR/. \SN ro/
map hss bee:n pmp md bV the~~~~~~I                                                  w          Tl                                                                                                                        SUreS-a# cl>hh ov1     03   ANO ONRETEADDIERSIL S AIBNS)
-~~~~~                                                                             -. ...  MUSIC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PALRUNA    STEV
d. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                                      
hm d-tho d lsmh /  n     I                       JOghP7OStR eP'qLAgeNALd oI o                                                                  \AM,i *bANOODOESTADO DARME CO.USAIATTAESP
A.EqNsNAL                                                                                                                                                             dA. TRR h1 b  I I  -.  \D                      AI
/       *NRRA\.                 \I Cy                                                                                                              MIROS      AVE
0I IC2RA        /              OU    /                        9        ~         MPB,wF0I,                                                                                      A  CTE
Z C ,      ,;o  *                                                                                               IIEAT   IER
t~~~LRRRSRRR,R ~  ~     ~      V.                                 IN /
PIATA  '!-6~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROTUCT AIA MERJNCS-
~~~~~~~~~~~R                        D  E TT.pI                                               ,       o   '_                                                                                      _  SEU.-AEPACILIIS   (SOUND COES TTEE,PRSO ODRPOET
I                             0       1~~~~~~~~~AALI0   25 R   5       S        C           R0    UATETIANTERICLLCA-EIC -NIIE
ASAI ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ CITNU  D   ICR0~E,00,CSNR UEAI  E
ROJO '808 MR O'88 T~~~0OUAR ISO ROTIR OOJRRRRR.RR.JRAR,,.II TIEC R8J~~,M,RRR,                                  C            IC       ,   20           30           o~~              MASTS MC UCRFPOTE -CGHUSI-S MMVE
MER~~~~~~~~~8ORO6 CRC/OS RSR,0000,00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                               II'



