Document of
The World Bank                   
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2009a-BE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
May 19, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                        Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                                 Cr$17.27(Selling Rate,jIay 1978)*
Crr$1=                                               US$0.0579
Cr$1 million                                         US$57,904
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          =               3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                                     0.62 mills
1 hectare (ha)         2                             10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometsr (km )                             100 ha = 247.1 acres = 0.386 sq.miles
1 cubic meter (m )                                   1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (Kg)                                      2.2 pounds
1 ton                                                1,000 Kg = 2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR - January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRLM FISCAL YEAR - April 1 to March 31
* Average Exchange Rates (Selling):                                     Oct.
1975        1976        1977
US$ = Cr$                          8.128       10.786       15.000



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GAiJSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BB           = Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BNB          = Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
BNCC         - Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo (National Cooperative
Credit Bank)
CAMAB        = Companhia de Adubos e Materiais Agricolas da Bahia (Bahia
Fertilizers and Agricultural Materials Company)
CASEB        = Companhia de Armazens Gerais e Silos do Estado da Bahia (Bahia
State General Warehouses and Silos Company)
CEPA-BA      = Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola-Bahia (Bahia State
Agricultural Planning Commission)
CERB         = Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia (Rural Engineering
Company of Bahia)
CFP          = Comissao de Financiamento da Produ,cao (Production Financing
Commission)
COBAL          Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazilian Food Company)
CRIBA        = Consorcio Rodoviario Intermunicipal da Bahia S.A. (Inter-
municipal Road Consortium of Bahia)
DCOOP        = Divisao de Cooperativismo (Division of Cooperatives of Bahia
Secretariat of Agriculture)
DERBA        = Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem da Bahia (Department of
Roads of Bahia)
EMATER-BA      Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Bahia (Bahia
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA      = Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Brazilian Agri-
cultural Research Company)
EPABA        = Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia (Bahian Agricultural
Research Company)
FUNRURAL       Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural (Assistance Fund for
Rural Workers)
FUSEB        = Funda9ao de Saude do Estado da Bahia (Bahia State Health
Foundation)
IBGE         = Instituto Brasileiro de Geografla e Estatistica (Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics)
INCRA        = Instituto Nagional de Coloniza;Zo e Reforma Agraria (National
Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INTERBA      = Instituto de Terras da Bahia (Bahian Land Institute)
PIASS        = Programa de Interioriza,ao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for the Interiorization of Health and Sanitation
Activities)
PIDERP       = Projeto Integrado de Desenvolvimento da Bacia do Rio Paraguagu
(Integrated Rural Development Project for the Paraguacu River
Basin)
POLONORDESTE = Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
PROAGRO      = Programa de Garantia da Atividade Agropecuaria (Guaranty Program
for the Crop-Livestock Sector)
SEC          = Secretaria da Educagao e Cultura do Estado da Bahia (Education and
Culture Secretariat of Bahia)
SENAC        = Servi9o Nagional de Aprendizado Comercial (National Commercial
Apprenticeship Service)
SENAI        = Servigo Nacional de Aprendizado Industrial (National Industrial
Apprenticeship Service)
SENAR        = Servigo Nacional de Forma,cao Profissional Rural (National Rural
Training Service)
SESAB        = Secretaria de Saude da Bahia (Secretariat of Health of Bahia)
SUCAM        = Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicinais (Superintendency of
Public Health Campaigns)
SUDENE       = Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (Northeast
Development Superintendency)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .....           .......................1
The Sector in the Economy .....          .....................1
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil ....................                   3
Government Rural Development Strategy in the
Northeast .................                                          4
II.   THE STATE OF BAHIA AND THE PROJECT AREA ............                    5
The State    ..........................................                5
The Project Area ........          ...........................         6
Location and Physical Features .....           ..............       6
Socioeconomic Conditions .........................                  7
Agriculture ........         ..............................         9
Physical Infrastructure ..........................                 10
Social Services ..................................                 10
Agricultural Services ............................                 10
III.   THE EXECUTING AGENCIES .............................                   11
State Framework for Executing the POLONORDESTE
Program ........        ..................................         11
Institutions Engaged in Rural Development in the
Project Area ....................         .................        12
IV.   THE PROJECT ........         ................................         12
Origins, Objectives and Approach .....           ..............      12
Brief Description ..................................                 15
Detailed Features ..................................                 16
Extension .........        ...............................         16
Agricultural Research and Seed Production    ........              17
Credit ...........       ................................          18
Land Purchase Credit ......         .......................21
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October 1977
composed of Messrs. E. Senner, G. Ashkenazi, M. Baxter, N. Hughes,
0. Lafourcade, P. Morris and A. Tobelem (Bank) and Messrs. E. Calderon and
J. Mora and Ms. J. Tendler (consultants) and Mr. F. Mortier (FAO/CP).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Land Surverying and Titling Services  ..........          22
Cooperative Society Support .    . ....................   23
Mechanization/Input Supply .................... ...       24
Irrigation              ..........   25
Multi-purpose Dams .    . .................               26
Crop Storage      .....................................   27
Feeder Roads ....     .................................   28
Health Services ........ ..........................       29
Village Water Supply ......   .......................     30
Education and Vocational Training ................        32
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation         33
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ....       ....................  34
Cost  Estimates   ......................................    34
Financing        ..........................................  36
Procurement ...........................................     36
Disbursements .......    ...............................    37
Accounts and Auditing .... ........................ .       37
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............. .. .............      38
Organization and Management ............ ............       38
Operating Agreements and Procedures .    ...............    41
Implementation Schedule .............. ..............      42
Evaluation ...................... ...................       42
VII.   PROJECT PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING .... .......       43
Production        .........................................  43
Demand, Markets and Prices ............ .. ...........      44
Marketing  ..........................................       46
VIII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......    ...........................    48
On-Farm Operations ......    ...........................    48
Producer Income ....................................        49
IX.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND EMPLOYMENT       . . . .51
Economic Rate of Return...                                  51
Employment                ....54
Project Risks               . ...54
Fiscal Impact    ....54
Environmental Impact            ....55
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..         55



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES:  1.  Design Standards for Feeder Roads
2. List of Collector Roads Planned Parallel to Project
3. Annual Phasing of Project Costs
4. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
5. List of Executing Agencies
6. Organization Chart of Project (PIDERP) Management Unit
7. Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
8. Implementation Schedule
9. Technical Coefficients and Specifications and Illustrative
Farm Models
10. Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
11. Related Documents Available in Project File
MAPS:     POLONORDESTE Priority Areas in State of Bahia (IBRD-13284)
Project Area (IBRD-13285)
Climatic Zones and Rainfall (IBRD-13286)






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the Economy
1.01      Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole and now accounts for only 11% of the GDP
compared to 20% in 1967, agriculture continues to be an important sector in
the economy. The national agricultural workforce numbers 12.8 million or
39.5% of the economically active population, and 43.1 million hectares (out
of a national territory of 8.5 million km2) are in agriculture.
1.02      About 56% of merchandise exports originate in the agricultural sector.
Coffee, soybeans and sugar alone generated 42% of the country's export earnings
in 1976. Brazil is a major world supplier of coffee, soybeans, sugar, cotton,
peanuts, cocoa, orange juice, castor oil and sisal. It is still the largest
exporter of coffee in the world, and is now the largest producer of cane
sugar in the world. The production of soybeans has increased from less than
one million tons in 1968 to over 11 million tons in 1976 and an estimated 12
million tons in 1977, making Brazil the third largest producer in the world.
This expansion has been instrumental in restructuring agriculture in southern
Brazil.
1.03      The most important crops for the domestic market include manioc
(cassava), maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus
fruits, dairy products, poultry, beef and swine; coffee, sugar, soybeans,
cotton, and cocoa are important for both the export and domestic markets.
With the exception of wheat, Brazil is largely self-sufficient in basic food
production, although some staples (such as garlic, potatoes and even beans)
are imported seasonally. Half of the wheat consumed in Brazil is still
imported.
1.04      Over 1967-74, the agricultural sector performed well in supplying
domestic demand for food and fiber as well as a rising volume of export
commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse weather
conditions in three of the seven years. Farm output increased 4.2% over
1975-76, an increase due more to productivity gains with livestock (12.2%)
rather than crops (0.4%, though 9% if coffee is excluded). Productivity
of soybeans, corn, rice, wheat and sugar increased, while productivity of
cotton, beans, castor beans, cocoa, sisal and tobacco declined. Recently,
the value of output has been increasing steadily but it is due more to an
expansion of production area rather than improved productivity. However,
despite increased attention to productivity (including advocacy of mechanized
production) and increasing market integration, subsistence and semi-commercial
production and rudimentary technology continue to be widespread, particularly
in the Northeast, North and Center West.



-2-
1.05      The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at more efficient exploitation of the country's
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms
during the 1975-79 period. This goal reflects the Government's intention to
provide an increasing share of Brazil's growing domestic requirements for food
and fiber, as well as to increase agricultural exports. In addition, the
Government has acknowledged the gravity of the country's income distribu-
tion problems. Major measures to increase agricultural output include:
(i) utilization of substantial public resources to incorporate new areas
into production; (ii) significant expansion in the supply of agricultural
credit; (iii) reorganization of federal research and extension services; and
(iv) special regional programs, such as POLONORDESTE, that focus on poorer
regions and smaller scale farmers. The POLONORDESTE program represents an
important shift in Brazilian agricultural policy, to give emphasis to the
development of programs to raise the productivity, incomes and quality of
life of the rural poor.
1.06      One important aspect of the Government's agricultural policy is its
practice of encouraging a large volume of agricultural credit at subsidized
interest rates. For most of Brazil these rates now vary between 13% and 21%
per annum without monetary correction, which in Brazil's inflationary environ-
ment means that they are highly negative in real terms. In the POLONORDESTE
program, the standard rate for small loans is now 10% without monetary correction.
Credit for fertilizer purchase is interest free. The subsidized interest rate
system was originally introduced in Brazil some years ago as a means of
compensating the agricultural sector for adverse terms of trade resulting from
high prices for fertilizer, machinery and other inputs. The subsidized rates
were also intended to provide an incentive to expand agricultural production
and, in the case of the Northeast, to give special help to a less developed
part of the country. The main institutions extending agricultural credit, the
Banco do Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, are able to extend this
credit on subsidized terms by virtue of large interest-free deposits which
public agencies place with them, so that the financial burden of the subsidies
is borne by the public sector as a whole, rather than by individual financial
institutions. However, the system has severe disadvantages, including possible
leakages from the agricultural sector into other, lower priority sectors, the
inequity of granting large farmers access to subsidized credit, and, in the
case of larger agricultural enterprises, the encouragement of unduly capital
intensive techniques. The possible adverse effects of such subsidized credit
are much less in the case of credit to very small farmers, such as those being
assisted under the POLONORDESTE program, because many of the beneficiaries are
below the poverty level and those programs are being intensively supervised in
a manner to ensure that the credit is used for the intended purposes. Bank
staff have for many years conducted a dialogue with the Government on this
matter, and the Government is aware of the serious disadvantages of the
system. In the past year a few modifications have been made. Larger farmers
are now required to finance at least 25% of on-farm investments with their own
resources, and a sliding scale of rates has been established charging larger
farmers somewhat more than smaller farmers. The basic POLONORDESTE rate in
the Northeast has been increased from 7% to 10%. The Government has felt that
it was politically impossible to move further at this time, and, therefore,
most of the undesirable features of the program still remain.



1.07      The Bank has so far made 13 loans, totalling US$480.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting
to US$60.5 million, for livestock development; two, amounting to US$137 mil-
lion, for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain storage; one,
of US$40 million, for an agricultural research program for the Northeast,
North and Center West of Brazil; one, of US$100 million, for the ._velopment
of agricultural extension services; and six, totalling US$124.7 million, for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, five of which
are located in the Northeast. Bank loans for a nutrition project and a
secondary and feeder road project are also providing important benefits to the
rural population. In addition to other agricultural and rural development
projects, a rural education program is also under consideration for possible
future Bank financing.
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil 1/
1.08      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about
30 mil'lion, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas. Much of the region
has a semi-arid climate with periodic serious droughts 2/ and generally
poor soils. Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region,
usually accounting for 20% of Brazil's agricultural production and a major
share of the national production of cocoa, cotton, manioc, beans and sugar.
In 1977, 26.9% of the area harvested in Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout
the Northeast, agricultural productivity is low and rural per capita incomes
are estimated to be only one-quarter the national average (about US$1,140 in
1976). In much of the Northeast, production of both food and industrial crops
is small scale and with simple technology. There is little mechanization of
production and very limited use of modern inputs. Annual crops are grown
largely on a shifting basis. While technology is unsophisticated and yields
poor, farming systems are adjusted to the environment: lack of credit for
working capital or investment, limited agricultural extension services, market
isolation and weak linkages with the regional economy, insecurity of land
tenure and, in areas, a difficult physical environment.
1.09      The environmental problems faced in reducing poverty and improving
productivity are compounded by a highly skewed distribution of land owner-
ship. Less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account for
40% of the area, and in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns
no land at all, though this proportion varies considerably by region. Among
Northeastern states, the proportion of landholders who have under 10 hectares
ranges from 49% in Ceara to 87.6% in Maranhao.
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in
Northeast Brazil," (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).
2/   The 1976 drought, for example, was primarily responsible for a 7%
decline in Northeast agricultural production. Especially hit were
maize, beans, cotton, castor beans and sisal.



-4-
Go vrnment Rural Development Strategy in the Northeast
1.10      Numerous Government programs have been directed at speeding economic
deeoent in the Northeast.  The Government operates a special development
agency (SUDENE) and a special development bank for the Northeast (Bank of the
Northeast: of Brazil, BNB), and substantial fiscal and monetary incentives
have been made available over the past decade for both industry and agricul-
ture. Per capita income in the region is still, however, only about half
the national average and rural per capita income is only one-quarter the
national average. Programs to generate jobs in the industrial sector have
not kept pace with population increases, and the gradual emigration from
rural to urban areas has been coupled with considerable continued emigration
to the more industrialized Center South of Brazil. Past Government programs
directed to the rural population have often been in the areas of public
works, particularly substantial efforts in drought-prone areas to develop
dams and ponds. in comparison, the current Government has moved toward the
reorientation and strengthening of the institutions offering the services
required to develop  'r7e productive labor-intensive small scale farming.
1.11      The POLONORD2STE program, established in 1974, is a major new rural
development strategy. it is helping to finance: (i) preparation and initial
implementation expendcL.-ores for new integrated rural development projects in
subregions selected for their development potential, and (ii) the continuation
or completion of projects (particularly land settlement and irrigation) begun
or planned before the creation of POLONORDESTE. By the end of 1977 around
US$584 million had been allocated to these various efforts. The establishment
of programs such as POLONORDESTE has helped mobilize the energies of various
Government bodies toward impro;iing agricultural productivity and the standard
of living of the rural poor. Thi& has been especially apparent in the areas
of rural extension, agricultural research, education and health. Nevertheless,
at all levels of government, the institutional capacity to plan, coordinate
and execute the program still requires strengthening.
1.12      At the state level, in some cases, initial failure to carefully define
target groups, to analyse the relationship between the needs of these groups
and proposed investment alternatives, and to think through the long-run
administrative and financial implications of project execution has resulted in
very uneven performance, within and among projects. At the regional and federal
levels, there have been frequent delays in funding, reflecting complicated
internal budget, disbursement and reporting systems involving numerous (not
always well-prepared or staffed) agencies. Progress has recently been made in
facilitating the flow of financing through: the Government establishment of
a revolving fund for advancing some of the financing for the rural development
projects in the Northeast which are subject to World Bank loans; the earlier
annual definition of budget fund availability for the entire program, thereby
facilitating local planning; and the establishment of a tighter schedule of
deadlines for review and approval of annual project operating plans. However,
the SUDENE group responsible for assisting states in the preparation of proj-
ects and for reviewing quarterly and annual reports and plans for the numerous
POLONORDESTE projects is still very weak. Though the Bank is discussing with
the Government new means of collaborating (e.g., through special technical



- 5 -
assistance or training efforts) in reducing the administrative constraints
in the program overall, progress in that area has been slow. Fortunately,
particularly in several states, the POLONORDESTE program has had a dramatic
impact in stimulating the development of local groups of highly motivated and
dedicated techn4cians working on rural development project planning and
execution, a factor signalling a likely continued importance of the program.
II. THE STATE OF BAHIA AND THE PROJECT AREA
The State
2.01      Bahia is both the most southern and largest (560,000 km2, 35% of
the Northeast) of the nine Northeast states. As elsewhere in the Northeast,
three distinct ecological zones are distinguishable in Bahia, although in
the more humid south and the central mountain range (the Chapada Diamantina),
the traditional zone classification is not so applicable. A humid coastal
region, extending 50-100 km inland, once covered with dense tropical forest
(hence the name, zona da mata) but now largely cleared for settlement, has
an annual average precipitation of over 1,000 mm. The interior sertao is
an arid and semi-arid zone with xerophytic and semixerophytic vegetation
(caatinga and cerrado) and annual precipitation under 600 mm. This area
contains the 56% of the state located in the "Drought Polygon"of the Northeast.
An intermediate temperate zone (agreste) has a transitional climate and
vegetation.
2.02      Coastal Bahia was one of the first parts of Brazil to be settled
by European immigrants. The area, like the rest of the state, has experienced
cyclical phases of economic activity: sugar, cocoa, precious and semi-precious
stones, cattle and light industry have all had periods of particular emphasis
in the economy. Agriculture for long was the key sector. Even today approxi-
mately 59% of the state's population (which totals over 7.5 million) lives in
the rural areas. Over the past decade, Bahian agricultural production has
accounted for 28% of Northeast and 8% of national production. The Bahian
cattle herd is 40% of the Northeast herd. Cocoa, castor beans, sugar, sisal
and tobacco are the chief export crops; maize, beans and manioc, the chief
products for the internal market. While the area under cultivation continues
to increase (24% during 1960-70), however, the relative importance of the
agricultural sector has declined. From 43% of the Bahian gross product during
the 1950s, the agricultural sector now contributes about 30%, about half of
which comes from cattle. Agricultural productivity is improving in some
areas, but overall agriculture in Bahia is characterized by low levels of
technical skill, little development of infrastructure or service support
(including marketing and storage support and facilities), very little local
product processing, resource distribution inequalities, and a long history of
rural emigration.
2.03      The current state government established in its five-year plan a
target annual growth rate of 10% over 1975-79, including 12% in industry
and 7% in agriculture (mainly livestock). Means to this end include:



-6-
(i) integrated development of the state's chief river basins (including the
predominant Sao Francisco as well as Paraguacu) and expansion of the area
cultivated; (ii) modernization and commercial integration of agriculture;
(iii) exploitation of mineral resources, particularly copper; (iv) develop-
ment of agro-industry and the processing of export agricultural products;
(v) boosting of urban economies through support to industry, including
small-scale industries in the interior and tourism; and (vi) execution of
localized intensive development efforts, including through the POLONORDESTE
program. The emphasis on industry has seen a shift in attention from the
numerous small traditional industries (food, clothing) I/ supported in the
mid-1960s to basic industries such as petrochemicals, textiles and electro-
mechanical engineering, all primarily in the greater Salvador and Feira de
Santana areas. The new direction of development is suggested by the 36
projects approved in Bahia by SUDENE for Government support in 1976: 28 were
in industry, one in telecommunications and seven in agriculture. An indication
of the results of the strategy is the 56% increase in receipts of industrial
production tax (IPI) over 1975-76. Agriculture has taken a lesser role in
development but still is important in overall growth, the chief new directions
being an emphasis on particular areas (as in the POLONORDESTE program), an
improved physical and service infrastructure to serve the sector, and newly-
introduced crops like coffee and irrigated wheat.
The Project Area
2.04      Location and Physical Features.  The 60,764 km2 project area (which
is larger than the entire state of Paraiba, for part of which Bank financing
of another rural development project was recently approved) comprises the greater
part of the Paraguacu River basin (Map No. 13284). The state capital, Salvador,
is on the coast some 120 km from the project area's eastern limits. Centered
at approximately 400 W and 120 S and comprising 49 municipalities, the project
area extends some 225 km north-south and 375 km east-west between the humid
litoral zone to the east and the semi-arid interior sertao to the west. The
high and relatively humid Chapada Diamantina in the west of the project area
comprises some one-quarter of the area; much of the remainder is a low, relatively
flat, semi-arid crystalline basin.
2.05      Aside from the Chapada Diamantina and the eastern periphery of
the region, the project area is semi-arid and part of the Northeast "Drought
Polygon."  Mean monthly temperatures range from 190 to 260.  Rainfall has
marked temporal and spatial variations: it is concentrated in the summer
(November to March) and ranges from over 1,400 mm to below 500 mm annually
(Map IBRD-13286). Areas with less than 800 mm precipitation (about half the
project area) have irregular rainfall; some central regions are currently in
the third consecutive year of markedly below-normal rainfall. The Paraguacu
1/   In 1970, 76.3% of industrial establishments in the state contributed
only 4% of the value of industrial production.



- 7 -
River, its larger tributaries, and a number of other perennial streams help
relieve local precipitation problems. Ground water resources are limited and
difficult to tap economically because of the crystalline substrata encountered
in two-thirds of the project area. The altitude of the project area rises
gradually from about 200 meters in the east to over 1,000 meters in part
of the Chapada Diamantina. Aside from the escarpments of the Chapada,
relief is generally undulating and in the east is flat or rolling, with
limited hilly zones. Soils are mainly latosols, podsols and planosols of
medium-to-low natural fertility.
2.06      On the basis of the physical environment and land use and distri-
bution, five discrete sub-areas within the Paraguacu Basin Project area
were delineated for purposes of project planning and implementation (see
Map IBRD-13285). The sub-areas, and some of their key characteristics,
are as follows:
Population (1970)    Area       Munici-
palities   Location within
Sub-area                      '000       % rural      km2       No.       Project Area
I     Planalto             101.8        82.7      2,865        4       Southeast
II     Cristalino Sul       109.5        78.4    12,279         8       Center-South
III    Chapada Diamantina  168.3         80.0    19,754        15       West
IV    Cristalino Centro   300.1         79.1    21,757        13       Center-North
V    Feira de Santana    303.9         47.9      4,109        9       Northeast
Project Area                  983.6        69.9    60,764        49
2.07     Socioeconomic Conditions.  Precise data on income are unavailable
(although most of the rural population is below Brazil's relative poverty
level of about $380 per capita), but an impression of the socioeconomic
condition of the population is available from other sources. As would be
expected with a region the size of the project area, regional differentiation
is apparent. The eastern area is densely settled, well integrated with
markets and is heavily influenced by the urban-industrial center of Feira
de Santana. To the west, settlement is more sparse, economic opportunities
fewer, and physical and service infrastructure more scarce. Particularly
away from the central valley road artery, areas in the west are poorly linked
to the commercial system and have few services.
2.08     The project area currently has a population of slightly more than one
million (984,000 in 1970, the most recent census). Average settlement density
is 16.2 persons per km2, ranging from 74.0 in the east to 8.5 in the west.



- 8 -
Thirty percent of the population is "urban," living in the area's 100 desig-
'na-e. urban centers. In fact, only 20% of the population lives in the eight
centers with more than 5,000 inhabitants. Feira de Santana with 127,000
*.nhabIants in 1970 (13% of the project area population) dominates the area's
urban structure and will become even more dominant: by 1980, it is estimated
that 20% of project area population will live there. The project area has
long been a source of emigrants to other parts of Brazil (to the Center
West and later to the Center South and South). However, while rural population
has been increasing slower than the population as a whole, this seems due
more to movement to urban centers within the valley than migration to external
areas. Over 1960-70, urban population increased 57%, and rural population 10%.
The Chapada Diamantina had only a 4% increase over the decade. Population is
youthful, with 45.7% under 15 years of age and 23.5% over 34.
2.09      Agriculture is the chief economic activity of the region.  Agricul-
ture accounts for 71.8% of the economically active population (50% of the
population over 9 years of age), industry for 8.3% and services for 18.1%.
(Respective figures for Bahia are 62.5%, 11.1% and 23.7%.) Within the project
area, there is considerable variation in the composition of employment, the
Feira de Santana area having markedly higher shares of the workforce in
industry and services. Distribution of agricultural land by farm size is
similar to elsewhere ir the Northeast. Eighty percent of owner-operated farms
are under 50 ha, but these together account for only 16% of the area farmed.
Data on non-owner operated farms are incomplete but it appears that these
are worked more by squatters than by sharecroppers and are most common in the
southern and western parts of the project area. The following table summarizes
the size distribution of all farms in the project area:
Sub-area      No. of Farms /1  % Farms by Farm Size /2  % Farm Area by Farm Size /2
Owner  Non-Owner   <10  11-50    >50 ha       <10   11-50      >50 ha
I         5,870    2,570      58.3  29.3    12.4          6.4   17.4     76.2
II        4,770    1,760      26.6  25.8    47.6         0.5    5.4      94.1
III       14,510    3,860      56.2  31.2    12.6         5.8   17.9      76.3
IV       19,900    1,640      25.1  44.3    30.6          1.5   11.7     86.8
v       15,040    1_870      59.4  31.4      9.2        9.9   27.7      62.4
Project
Area      60,090   11,700      43.8  35.8    20.4         3.0   13.1      83.9
/1   Few "owners" in the project area actually have complete land title docu-
mentation. Figures for noniowners are very approximate and include
renters, sharecroppers and squatters, but not landless rural laborers.
Source: CEPA-BA calculations from IBGE (1970) and INCRA (1972) data.
/2   Data are for owner-operated farms only:  comparable data for non-owner
operations are unavailable. Source: CEPA-BA calculations from IBGE
(1970) and INCRA (1972) data.



- 9 -
2.10      Agriculture.  Related to either its share of the area (11%) or the
population (13%) of Bahia, the project area generally accounts for a dis-
proportionately high share of state production of industrial crops and a
near proportionate share of food crops and cattle.  Much of food crop
production is directed to on-farm consumption or urban markets within the
project area. the Paraguacu valley has not played a significant role in
producing food for external markets. There are about four million hectares
of farm land in the project area, 1.1% of which is in permanent crops, 4.5%
in temporary crops, 51.3% in pasture (including 23.1% in improved pasture),
21.2% in forest/scrub, and 16.5% fallow. A very small area (0.1%) is irrigated.
In reflection of the diverse ecotypes of the area, there is considerable
spatial variation in production, but basic crops and crop combinations throug-
hout the valley are similar. The chief food crops are manioc, mulatinho and
macassar beans, and maize; the main industrial crops are castor beans, tobacco
and sisal. Small quantities of rice, tomatoes, onions, garlic and a variety
of other fruits and vegetables are also grown. Beans and maize are frequently
interplanted, as are castor beans with beans or manioc. In the drier northeast,
sisal is an important crop. Tobacco is grown in small plots in more humid
areas throughout the valley. Castor beans are common in the drier central
crystalline region and in the western Chapada Diamantina. The estimated
691,000 cattle of the project area are also concentrated in the drier areas.
2.11      The one-fifth of project area farms (excluding an estimated 11,700
establishments operated by non-owners) greater than 50 hectares account for
84% of the valley's farm area; these properties are devoted primarily to
cattle and other livestock rather than to agriculture. In terms of crops,
technology, scale and commercial/subsistence orientation of production,
agriculture on different sizes of farms is similar; differences that do occur
are most likely to be of scale. All farmers, including cattle ranchers, grow
some or all of the basic food crops, usually producing a surplus for sale.
Few producers do not depend on farm production for home consumption. Estimated
project area production in 1976 was as follows:
Value                      Quantity
Crop                 Cr$ mil.          '000 tons          % Bahia prod.
Manioc (root)               252.8              515.9                 9.3
Beans                      151.2                19.9                14.2
Maize                       63.3                41.1                15.5
Rice                          3.1                1.0                 2.6
Tomatoes                     3.2                 1.4                 3.3
Onions                       4.7                 1.5                15.0
Garlic                        2.7                0.2                14.0
Castor beans                95.1               38.2                 24.8
Sisal                       77.7               26.8                 11.0
Tobacco (leaf)             107.5                12.5                36.8
Tobacco (string)             n.a.               n.a.                n.a.
Total                   761.3              658.5



- 10 -
2.12      The commercial significance of crops differs from their total
production. More manioc, for instance, is probably consumed at home than
enters commercial trade. Production per farm is not high. Manioc accounts
for about one-half of production by weight in all farm types. Most farms
actually have a mixed-economy. Even small-scale farmers often have a couple
of cattle or, in drier areas, sheep or goats, although ownership of all types
of livestock is concentrated on the larger properties. Among the expected
17,000 families participating in the project (see para 4.04), beans (11,722
ha) and maize (10,051 ha) are the most widely planted crops, followed by
manioc (7,839 ha) and castor beans (4,339 ha). Almost all maize (98.6% by
area), 80% of beans and 30% of castor beans are interplanted with other crops.
The estimated average value of production per hectare cultivated is Cr$4,160
(about US$280).
2.13      Physical Infrastructure.  Aside from the eastern part of the
project area and, particularly, the larger urban areas, infrastructural and
service development is weak. The road network totals 12,300 km but many
of the 9,000 km of local access roads are seasonally impassable. There are
800 km of high voltage transmission lines in the project area, but even with
a current expansion project these will serve only a small fraction of the
region's many rural communities. Many of the 100 "urban" centers are still
without even locally-generated electricity.
2.14      Social Services.  Health and education services are poorly developed
and those which do exist are mainly accessible chiefly to urban populations.
Approximately 47% of children aged 7 to 14 attend school (compared to 86% for
all Brazil and 57% for Bahia); 38% of the population over 14 years of age is
literate. Three federal, two state and eleven non-profit public and private
organizations, as well as municipalities, are responsible for health care. In
the entire project area, there are 74 physicians and 19 dentists. While there
are 28 hospitals with 1,318 beds (one bed for every 1,000 inhabitants), half
the beds are in Feira de Santana. There are 79 health centers in the project
area. Reliable health data are unavailable, but public health statistics
indicate high rates of meningitis, tetanus and childhood diseases like measles
and whooping cough, which suggest child malnutriton. Schistosomiasis, Chagas
disease (South American trypanosomiasis) and leishmaniosis are common. Only
56 of the project area's 350 cities, towns and villages have public or communal
water supply systems, and only 17 of these have house connections. With the
exception of one in Feira de Santana, there are no solid waste disposal
systems.
2.15      Agricultural Services.  While infrastructure and social services
serve primarily some urban centers, specifically rural services favor large-
and medium-scale farmers. Over 1974-76 for instance, more than 90% of rural
credit (by value) granted in the area by the Bank of Brazil and the Bank of
the Northeast of Brazil was for livestock (tending to be on large scale
farms) rather than for crops. Agricultural extension services have had a
similar livestock/large- and medium-farmer bias, and many of the eight
cooperative societies in the area were organized by larger farmers to develop
their interests. The large/medium scale farmer bias of credit and extension
services is not the product of an anti-small farmer policy but rather reflects
the larger-scale farmer's usually better education, broader technical and



- 11 -
commercial experience, and social and political empathy with bankers and
extensionists, as well as the previously predominant system of relating
financing of the extension system to the volume of credit supervised (hence,
usually to larger farms).
2.16      State-operated storage, mechanization and input supply services
are available through a small number of outlets, but their influence has been
slight. Aside from the purchase of sisal at a minimum price by the federal
Production Financing Commission, there is no Government organized marketing
service in the project area.
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
State Framework for Executing the POLONORDESTE Program
3.01      The POLONORDESTE program in Bahia is coordinated by a Management
Council (Conselho Diretor) created in February 1976 through state decree
No. 25,136. The Management Council provides policy guidance and general
coordination for the execution of POLONORDESTE-financed projects. The
Council is officially headed by the Secretary of Agriculture but in practice
the Governor of the State presides at most Council meetings. Other members
of the Council include the State Secretaries of Planning, Health, Sanitation
and Urban Development, Mines and Energy, Transport, and Education, representa-
tives from the Federal Ministries of Agriculture and Interior (the latter
through SUDENE), and representatives of Bank of Brazil and the Bank of the
Northeast of Brazil. The Council is responsible for: setting general
directives for POLONORDESTE activities in Bahia; defining overall priorities
and strategy; ensuring appropriate participation in the program by executing
agencies; approving the annual operating plans for specific projects and the
annual plans of participating executing agencies; reviewing the quarterly
execution reports of projects; and, coordinating and mediating between execu-
ting agencies and resolving problems affecting project implementation.
3.02      There are four POLONORDESTE projects currently in preparation or
implementation in Bahia. 1/ Day-to-day management and supervision of the
projects is shared by the Secretariats of Agriculture and Planning. Coordi-
nation and administration of the Paraguacu and one other project is by Project
Management or Technical Units (Unidades Tecnicas) within the State Agricultural
Planning Commission (CEPA-BA, Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola-Bahia).
These two full-time management units are headed by coordinators who answer
through the chief executive of CEPA-BA to the Secretary of Agriculture. The
other two projects are administered by technical units within the Secretariat
of Planning. Though division of responsibility for the state's POLONORDESTE
projects complicates efforts to ensure consistency in approach and implementa-
tion, the arrangement results in active interest and support of the POLONORDESTE
1/   In addition to the Paraguacu project, there are the Irece, Tabuleiros
Costeiros Sul ("Southern Coastal Plateau") and Alem Sao Francisco
("Beyond the Sao Francisco") projects.



- 12 -
prograim by the key Agricultural and Planning Secretariats. The program also
be-sfits through the close involvement of the state Governor via the Management
Council.
3.03      The Paraguacu Project Management Unit (see paras 6.02-6.09) would be
the executor of project management and evaluation. Other project components
would be executed by existing line agencies under the general guidance and
coordination of the Project Management Unit. Fifteen federal, state and
private agencies and 49 municipal governments would be involved as direct
executors or major collaborators in execution. Where implementation/management
skills of executing agencies are weak, they would be boosted by the project,
the institutional strengthening so having significance beyond the project.
Each executing agency would have a project liaison officer responsible for
project matters and relations with the project management unit.
Institutions Engaged in Rural Development in the Project Area
3.04      The chief agencies involved in rural development in the project
area are the Government-owned Bank of Brazil (BB) and the Bank of the
Northeast of Brazil (BNB); the state's extension service (EMATER-BA), agri-
cultural research company (EPABA), input supply and mechanization company
(CAMAB), and land surveying and titling institute (INTERBA); and a number
of cooperative societies and their institutional support (e.g., the Secretariat
of Agriculture's Division of Cooperativism, DCOOP). Further support comes
from a wide range of agencies with some involvement in rural development.
Most important among these are state Secretariats of Education and Culture and
of Health, the state roads department (DERBA), a roadworks consortium (CRIBA),
the state rural engineering com-pany (CERB) which builds village water supply
systems, small dams and some irrigation works, the state warehousing company
(CASEB) and the federal Production Financing Commission (CFP). While numerous
agencies are involved in rural development, their effectiveness has been
hampered by both limited resources and the fact that only recently has the
orientation towards integrated rural development emerged in the state.
The expected roles of these agencies in the proposed Paraguacu project are
described in paras. 4.08 to 4.49.
IV. THE PROJECT
Origins, Objectives and Approach
4.01      The POLONORDESTE program was established to raise productivity and
incomes, broaden economic opportunities, and generally improve living condi-
tions of small farmers in the Northeast. The program is based on the formula-
tion and execution of integrated rural development projects in areas selected
for both their relative underdevelopment and development potential, such as the
Paraguacu River Basin. For much of this century, the Paraguacu Basin has
suffered relative economic stagnation: the mining activities that were the
basis of the region's economy during the latter half of the nineteenth century
declined early in this century; agriculture and livestock production has been
largely subsistent or directed to the internal valley market and has suffered



- 13 -
from an absence of programs to improve productivity and of supporting infra-
structure; and, the region has been a source of considerable out-migration
by people in search of greater economic opportunity, both in agriculture in
the Center West and in industrial and urban activities in the South and Center
South.
4.02      In spite of its economic experience and the generally difficult
environment, the Paraguacu Basin does have considerable development potential.
The eastern edge is 120 km from the major consumption center of Salvador, the
state capital (current population of 1.4 million), with which the eastern
and central parts of the Basin are well-connected. Connections with other
parts of the Basin would be improved during the project. Moreover, the
Basin includes areas with both reasonable agricultural potential (like the
southeastern plateau and parts of the western mountain and plateau zone) and
considerable numbers of small land holders and a tradition of small-scale
agriculture. The Paraguacu Basin also has growing markets and employment in
its urban areas. In addition, while agriculture presently uses largely
rudimentary technology and is characterized by low productivity, there is a
realistic probability for upgrading production, including through small-scale
irrigation schemes. In general terms, a fundamental handicap to development
of the Paraguacu Basin is the absence of an efficient physical or service
infrastructure. The proposed project aims to alleviate some of the most
critical of these problems, so helping form the basis for self-generating
development.
4.03      The proposed project originated in 1973-74 when the state and
SUDENE, with the assistance of consultants, prepared a general plan for
improved utilization of the region's water resources. This study, together
with the seriousness of the economic conditions in the area and the creation
of the POLONORDESTE program in late 1974, encouraged the state to proceed with
the preparation of a special program of investments to help facilitate produc-
tivity increases for the region's agriculture. The state contacted the Bank
office in Recife in 1975, requesting Bank collaboration in project preparation
and financing. Several Bank preparation missions followed. The initial state
proposals focussed on isolated irrigation, livestock and fruit plantation
programs and a small program for small-scale producers in isolated areas of
the 69 municipalities all or partly in the Paraguacu Basin. With further
study, and state interest in broadening project impact and in sharpening its
focus on small-scale farmers, as well as Bank assistance in preparation, the
project area became the core 49 municipalities of the Basin. The project is
based on state proposals for this more focussed target. Original state pro-
posals for project interventions in cooperative societies, mechanization,
marketing and storage services were tailored and/or somewhat reduced to make
them more in line with the small farmer targets and with institutional condi-
tions and farmer traditions in the project area. The proposed project would
seek to build on recent development activities in the Basin, including the
construction and staffing of some schools and health mini-posts, some road
and electrification work, and improvements to agricultural services and
cooperative societies begun with POLONORDESTE funding from late 1976.



- 14 -
4.04      Because of the size (60,764 km2) of the project area, uneven dis-
tribution of small farmers within the area, environmental variation, the still
weak institutional base for assisting small farmers, and the need to ensure
that benefits actually reach intended beneficiaries, the project would focus
on sub-areas where there are concentrations of small-scale producers. Com-
munities of small farmers throughout the area have been selected as primary
targets. Approximately 153 communities, each having at least 100-200 small
farmers, would be gradually incorporated into project activities. The distri-
bution of expected direct project beneficiaries by farm size, main type of
production and project sub-area is as follows:
Agriculture                         Livestock
Sub-area     0-10 ha   11-50 ha  51-100 ha  Total    51-100 ha  101-200 ha  Total
I        1,150        740       110      2,000          -           -         -
II          495        970       345      1,810          -         100       100
III        2,985      1,745       230      4,960 /1       -           -          -
IV        1,320      2,260       315      3,895        360         215       575
V        2,120      1,350       190      3,660          -           -         -
Project Area  8,070 /2  7,065    1,190        16,325       360         315        675
/1   Including up to 635 beneficiaries using irrigation, some 500 of whom
would benefit from new or improved irrigation under the project.
/2   Includes an estimated 2,125 sharecroppers and renters.
4.05      The proposed project is multi-sectorial and, though built primarily
around agricultural development, would include significant efforts to improve
production support services and physical and social infrastructure, as well
as to strengthen project execution capacity. While each of the project com-
ponents would have specific pre-defined objectives, to some extent these would
be flexible so that they could be tailored as needed in response to local
developments. In terms of target groups, project activities are in three
categories: those that serve chiefly small farmer target communities; activi-
ties that serve primarily the direct small farmer beneficiaries but which are
accessible to a larger rural population; and components with a broader, less-
specific beneficiary group. Agricultural extension, credit, land surveying-
titling and irrigation would be in the first category. Benefits of agricul-
tural research and seed production, input supply, storage-marketing and
cooperative society activity would reach a larger group; and social infrastruc-
ture and road development a still larger population. Moreover, with implemen-
tation of agricultural and social extension activities and improved access to
services directed initially to the 17,000 direct beneficiaries in the selected
communities, project activities would have a strong demonstration effect
throughout the Paraguacu valley.



- 15 -
4.06      Overall, the project is intended to increase productivity and incomes,
broaden economic opportunities and generally improve the standard of living of
17,000 small farmer direct beneficiaries and their families; raise the contri-
bution of the Paraguacu Basin agricultural sector to local and other Bahian
food demands, and also to export earnings; and, develop further technical and
administrative capacity of institutions involved in agriculture and rural
development in Bahia (specifically in the Paraguacu Basin), and encourage the
development of a distinct rural development/small farmer orientation within
these institutions.
Brief Description
4.07      The project would include:
(i) intensified development of 16,325 small-farm (up to 100 ha)
and 675 small- and medium-size (50-200 ha) livestock operations
and provision of credit for investment and incremental working
capital;
(ii) expansion and strengthening of agricultural support services
(including agricultural extension, agricultural research and
seed production, input supply and mechanization, storage-
marketing and assistance to cooperative societies), with
particular attention to small farmers and problems encountered
in the project area;
(iii)  improved access to land and to definitive land title among
small-scale farmers by providing land purchase credit for
approximately 820 small-scale operators (owners and non-
owners) and by strengthening the surveying and titling
services of the state land institute;
(iv) development of basic physical infrastructure through the
construction and upgrading of about 1,140 km of access roads,
establishment or rehabilitation of a number of traditional
small-scale irrigation schemes, building of 12 small multi-
purpose dams, and construction of about 70 village water supply
systems;
(v) expansion and improvement of health and education services
and facilities (including construction or improvement of 50
village health posts, 27 health centers and 100 rural
primary schools); and
(vi) provision of organizational support for project administration,
including monitoring and evaluation.
The project would include activities and investments undertaken during a
5-year period beginning in April 1978.



- 16 -
Detailed Features
4.08      Extension.  Rural extension would be a keystone of the proposed
proj zct. Through an expanded and strengthened network of agricultural and
social extension services, EMATER-BA (the state technical assistance and rural
extension company) would promote increased small farmer use of improved agri-
cultural technology and of support services such as credit, and the formation
of community and farmer organizations aimed at providing or facilitating
access to social and production services. The project would finance equipment,
vehicles and some minor installations for the expanded extension systems;
the salary, social security and insurance costs during the project period
for incremental staff; incremental operating costs (materials and supplies,
rents) during the project period; the participant subsistence and travel
costs, materials and instructor salary costs for the pre- and in-service
training of extensionists and of short-course training for farmers; and the
production input costs (excepting farmer labor) of establishing a series of
demonstration plots on the land of selected participants. These investments
would result in the expansion of the extension system in the project area from
about 77 technical staff members (equivalent to one for every 900 farms, though
in practice a much smaller fraction of the farmers are actually served) to
just under 300 technical staff.
4.09      As important as the increase in size would be changes in the struc-
ture and methodology of extension activities, both requiring important training
and retraining efforts. Rather than the principally credit-supervision approach
usually adopted by the extension service in the past for its predominantly
large farmer clientele, a specialization of function would be developed. It
would start with middle level (high school or technical school graduate) field
extensionists trained to provide, on a fixed schedule of periodic visits,
agronomic and production advice to groups of up to 20 small-scale farmers
organized around contact farmers and demonstration plots. Through these
visits and demonstrations, field extensionists would promote adoption of
improved production techniques ("technical packages") -- including recommenda-
tions on soil preparation, timing of sowing, plant spacing, seed selection,
fertilizer use and plant protection -- developed by the extension and research
services (see Annex 9). The recommendations would be adapted to the varying
local conditions within the project area and include proposals for the variety
of crops and crop combinations found in different parts of the area, but
including mainly beans, manioc, maize, castor beans, tobacco, fruits and
vegetables. The field extensionists working with small and medium scale
livestock producers in the sparsely populated central zone would work mainly
with individual producers, but would take advantage of a fixed visit schedule
to accommodate as many farmers as possible in a particular region. The field
extensionists would be backed up by specialized credit, cooperative societies
and subject matter extension staff. Credit extensionists would assist farmers
to prepare and process credit proposals and help the banks supervise execution
of financed farm development. Cooperative extension specialists would work
in conjunction with DCOOP (see para 4.26) to strengthen the cooperative
movement as a vehicle for small farmer development. Subject matter specialists
would supervise and coordinate the diffusion of new production recommendations



- 1 7 -
developed in conjunction with project research and experimentation programs.
On the social assistance side, EMATER-BA social extensionists (usually women)
would work with contact families in close collaboration with field agricultural
extensionists, but would focus on providing home economics and nutrition
education, developing family gardening projects and youth organizations, and
promoting village health societies for project health and water supply activi-
ties (see paras 4.41 to 4.46). The close collaboration between the social and
field extensionists should help assure the vital local participation of both
men and women in the various production and social aspects of the project.
4.10      The extension component would be managed through 4 regional offices
and 22 local offices (a net increase of 7 during the project). Each agricul-
tural field extensionist would eventually work with 8-10 contact farmers,
through whom he would contact about 200 farmers. Each livestock field exten-
sionist would work with up to 40 producers per year; and each social and credit
extensionist with about 300 families.
4.11      Agricultural Research and Seed Production.  In the project area
there are several small research stations, and the southeast of the area is
close to one of Bahia's major research centers (now the National Manioc and
Horticulture Center of the Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural Research,
EMBRAPA). The project area, however, has suffered such traditional research
shortcomings as the inapplicability of many research results to local condi-
tions (for example, lack of focus on production systems involving interplanted
crops), inadequate facilities to multiply and distribute improved seeds, weak
linkage between research and extension services and between the latter and
most farmers and, particularly until the creation of EMBRAPA by the Government
in 1974, discontinuity in research funding and administration. Initial
efforts by EMBRAPA and its state affiliate in Bahia, EPABA, to consolidate and
coordinate research activities in the state and to establish stronger collabo-
ration with local producers and the extension service have demonstrated that
there already exists a fair amount of relevant expertise on locally applicable
"improved technology" for many crops. However, there remains considerable
scope to improve production through adaptive research and experimentation.
4.12      The proposed project would include:  the upgrading or development
of adaptive and controlled agriculture and livestock research activities at
4 small research stations in the project area (at Feira de Santana, Itaberaba,
Utinga and Iraquara) already owned by EPABA but some without on-going research
programs; the development of several commercial-scale observation sites
managed by the EPABA stations; and the development by EPABA of improved seed
production facilities (on the research stations and observation sites and
through some contracts with farmers), based on a small pilot seed production
program begun in 1977 with good initial results. The project costs to be
financed include equipment, materials, vehicle and minor installation costs
for the research stations; incremental personnel and operating costs for the
stations and observation sites; and the phased start-up costs (personnel,
production inputs, miscellaneous equipment, storage and handling) of seed
production activities. Project disbursements for the latter would be almost
entirely in the first year of the project with disbursements in the second and



- 18 -
third years limited to phased expansions. Each seed production operation is
intended to be self-financing after the first year as a result of EPABA seed
sales to CAMAB (the state input supply company, see para 4.28), cooperatives,
private dealers, or farmers.
4.13      Under EMBRAPA guidance, EPABA would be responsible for component
execution. Experimentation priorities would be determined and research
progress reviewed, however, through regular consultation with the Project
Management Unit, the extension service and selected project area farmers.
Research findings from the component would be gradually introduced on the
demonstration plots of "contact farms" (see para 4.09). Research would focus
initially on such subjects as improved varieties, plant spacing and protection,
and nutrient application for major crops including beans, corn, manioc, and
castor beans. Special emphasis would also be given to means to improve the
mixed farming systems that are common in the area and in which interplanted
crops and crop/livestock combinations play mutually supporting and risk-averting
roles.
4.14      Credit.  The proposed credit component is intended to expand signif-
icantly small farmer use of the institutionalized credit system. The increased
credit access would facilitate the adoption of improved farming techniques,
the diversification of production and the expansion of areas cultivated, so
increasing agricultural production and incomes. The component would include:
(i) agricultural investment credit for about 16,325 small-scale
farmers with less than 100 ha (including about 2,000 share-
croppers and renters), the credit to cover mainly the costs
of land clearing, on-farm storage facilities, small equipment
and tools, establishment of permanent crops, and, for about
500 of the beneficiaries, the costs of on-farm and/or group
off-farm irrigation works (see paras 4.30-4.32);
(ii) incremental seasonal crop production credit, including
credit to help cover the costs of fertilizers, seeds,
pesticides, additional labor and other seasonal costs; and
(iii)  livestock investment credit for about 675 small- and medium-
scale livestock operations of up to 200 ha in Sub-areas II
and IV (the drier central zone), covering mainly stock and
pasture improvement, fencing and watering points.
It is expected that the great majority of the likely 17,000 benefitting
families, almost 90% of whom operate farms of less than 50 ha, would be
receiving institutional credit for the first time. Virtually all participants
are estimated to have current agriculture incomes below the relative poverty
line in Brazil (about US$380 per capita or around US$2,000 per family, see
paras 8.03-8.04).
4.15      Project credit would be channelled to farmers or cooperatives
through 20 existing and 3 planned branches of Banco do Brasil (BB) and Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) in or very near the project area. These federal



- 19 -
banks handle virtually all of the agricultural credit in the project area and
are authorized by the government to be financial intermediaries for the
POLONORDESTE program. Project credit terms and conditions would be those
established by the Government for the POLONORDESTE program, namely interest
to the farmer at 10%, unindexed, for both investment credit and seasonal
production credit (with the exception of credit for fertilizer purchase which
is non-interest bearing), with repayment terms for investment credit of up to
12 years including up to 6 years' grace. The Central Bank would normally
maintain credit lines with the participating banks to make available the
necessary funds to cover 100% of sub-loan value. Participating banks would be
required to repay the Central Bank in line with repayment of the sub-loans
made, but retaining a 5% remuneration. Where lending is channelled through
cooperatives, the cooperative would receive 2%, leaving the bank 3%.
4.16      Given Brazil's inflation rate, the interest rates adopted by the
Government for POLONORDESTE projects are negative in real terms. Interest
rates were marginally increased in early 1978 (from 7% to 10% for smaller
loans and from 12% to 14% for larger loans), but a considerable subsidy
remains. The Government, at least for the time being, is very reluctant to
reduce further the subsidy for small farmer programs such as POLONORDESTE (see
para 1.06). Since the beneficiaries of the proposed project are mainly in the
lower income classes, and the possibility of misallocations of resources is
greatly reduced by the proposed project extension and monitoring activities
(the credit extensionist having to report at least once a year to the local
bank on the progress of the individual financed projects and on the technical
assistance rendered, and the project monitoring work including annual surveys
of sample farms which would help provide another basis for evaluating the
effectiveness of the credit intervention), the Bank should be prepared to
acquiesce to the Government's position. Hopefully, the expected positive
experience with small farmer repayment capacity in projects such as the one
proposed will help convince the Government of the viability of adopting an
interest rate policy more closely reflecting real credit costs.
4.17      During negotiations, assurances were received from the Govern-
ment that it would maintain agreements with the participating banks to ensure
their continued active collaboration in execution of the project credit
component; that project credit would be extended to the small-scale farmers
at POLONORDESTE terms and conditions, and that the Bank would be promptly
informed of changes in POLONORDESTE terms and conditions. Also, to help
assure that the project credit is available to as large a number of farmers
as possible and that the focus on smaller scale operations is achieved, Bank
disbursements would be limited to sub-loans to farmers whose total debt
(investment and working capital) outstanding under the program is less than
100 MVR 1/ (or about US$5,500). Sub-loans to farm operations with income
levels requiring financing of greater than 100 MVR would not be included in
this project. Since livestock lending already absorbs the bulk of rural
1/   The "Maximum Reference Value" or MVR is a periodically adjusted measure
equivalent to about US$50-60.



- 20 -
credit resources in the project area, project livestock credit would be
'i-ited to small- and medium-scale producers in Sub-areas II and IV (the
central zone) who, unlike larger-scale livestock producers, have had limited
Lcc-_ss t3 credit and technical assistance and whose incomes are low.  The
aggregate of Bank disbursements for livestock investment credit would be
limited to 15% of total Bank disbursements for the credit component. With
respect to seasonal crop production credit, since repayments of short-term
sub-loans would, on average, be repaid by the farmer in less than one year,
the Government would make these funds available each subsequent year for
reapplication under the project credit component. Bank disbursements for
seasonal crop credit in POLONORDESTE fiscal year 1978 (April 1978-March 1979)
would begin only after aggregate project working capital credit exceeded the
comparable amount extended under POLONORDESTE in the project area in fiscal
1977. In each following year, disbursements for seasonal crop credit would be
made only against credit in excess of the amount extended by the project
during the previous year.
4.18      Under the POLONORDESTE program, several steps have been taken which
should help expand credit coverage and help alleviate some of the constraints
to small farm lending. The integrated project approach (together with comple-
mentary national research and extension programs) gives special emphasis to
development of improved technical packages and intensive agricultural exten-
sion for small-scale operations, and to the reduction of physical infrastruc-
tural bottlenecks to increased production. Also, a variety of steps have
been taken within the credit system itself to improve coverage of small
farmers. The most significant of these are: (i) participating banks have
been instructed by the Government to give priority to small-scale and landless
farmers in utilizing POLONORDESTE funds; (ii) application procedures for
loans of under 50 MVR have been simplified so that banks can make such loans
on the signature guarantee of the borrower, which should reduce loan process-
ing cost and time for both banks and farmers; (iii) Government funding,
independent of the size of individual loans, has been made available to
the extension service to provide assistance to small farmers in preparing
credit applications; and (iv) BB and BNB have instructed their agencies in the
Northeast to initiate periodic satellite banking activities ("mobile credit"
in the case of BB and pontos de credito -- "credit points" -- in the case of
BNB) for small loans in municipalities without permanent bank branches, giving
priority to such activities in POLONORDESTE project areas. These changes
would be pursued in the proposed Bahia project, mobile banking having already
been recently initiated by at least three of the project area BB branches and
credit points by one BNB branch.
4.19      An analysis of the capacity of the existing banking network in the
project area has pinpointed several localities (mainly in the west of the
project area) where project related growth in credit demand may seriously
strain the capabilities of existing bank branches. The expected demand
increase is such that it may be desirable for BB to reconsider its current
plans to build only 3 new branches in the project area over the next few years
or for BNB to consider opening new branches. A number of aspects of the
credit system infrastructure would be closely monitored under the project,



- 21 -
including: the extent to which branch managers actually adopt allowable
simplifications in credit procedures; the use of temporary personnel during
periods of peak credit demand; the costs of processing credit; the adequacy of
the interest rate spread to participating banks; the costs and benefits of the
periodic or mobile banking services; the time involved and costs of credit
access by farmers; the adequacy of the financing received to cover a reasonable
share of total production and investment costs; and, the functioning of the
PROAGRO crop/credit guarantee scheme that beneficiaries would be encouraged to
utilize (at a cost of 1% of the loan amount).
4.20      Land Purchase Credit.  In the project area, as in much of the North-
east, ownership of sufficient land and security of tenure are important
factors in determining the farmer's ability and willingness to take the often
risky steps (on-farm investment, use of new farming techniques) and to get
access to the support services (credit, extension and others) needed to
improve productivity and expand production. This importance is reflected in
several of the proposed project components, one being land purchase credit
(others including titling services and assistance to cooperatives, including
in land purchase and sub-division projects). Currently, Government land
credit is made available only when, with the lot to be purchased, the farm
is at least one "module". This is the amount of land (about 35 ha for most
of the project area) defined by the National Institute for Colonization and
Agrarian Reform, INCRA, to be the minimum necessary to generate in a parti-
cular region or micro-region a net.farm income of four times the annual
minimum wage (around US$3,000 total). While possibly justified as a way
to prevent creation of excessively small farms, the "module" represents a
farm size and income level well above the current situation for most farmers
in the project area. The change implied by the acquisition of at least one
"module" (and perceived financial responsibility) is usually so large that it
precludes participation of many of the potential beneficiaries. Though INCRA
can authorize exceptions to the one module minimum for land credit, exceptions
have usually been granted only in cases of irrigation or highly organized
colonization programs and only after very considerable administrative delay.
4.21      The state has prepared a land purchase credit component with a more
flexible lower limit on the size of farms (10-23 hectares, depending on the
sub-area) that might benefit from the credit, thereby allowing for a more
realistic and gradual increasing of income (usually still more than doubling
over about 6-8 years). Some 820 sharecroppers, tenants, and current owners
of very small plots are expected to benefit, a target equivalent to 10% of the
estimated project beneficiaries in the up-to-10 ha size stratum (which includes
non-owner operators). The credit would be channelled through local branches
of BB and BNB and would have standard POLONORDESTE land credit terms, namely,
repayment in up to 20 years (including up to 6 years of grace) for up to 100%
of the purchase price of land and interest at 12% unindexed. Land prices in
the project area are currently in the US$150-375/ha range. The component
would be financed solely with Government resources.
4.22      Execution of the component would include three important features.
Firstly, short-term (up to 2 years) financing would be made available by the
Government to cooperative societies to purchase larger parcels of land for



- 22 -
subdivision and resale (and re-financing at the standard longer term) to new
or existing small farmer members. Secondly, the state would establish a
rotating land purchase fund (utilizing POLONORDESTE funding not included as
a project cost) to purchase potentially usable lands where cooperative inter-
vention is not possible, or to expropriate unutilized estates, both for the
purpose of preparation of simple sub-division projects and resale to individual
farmers who would receive project land purchase credit. Thirdly, the component
would benefit from the collaboration of the cooperative assistance, extension
and land titling agencies of the state to help: identify potential
beneficiaries in the target group for land purchase credit and also land with
productive potential available for sale; facilitate farmers' access to credit
and compliance with various requirements (credit proposals, titling); and
prepare state or cooperative land purchase, subdivision and resale projects.
As the component would affect a relatively small part of the very large
project area and a very modest number of farms, it should not, by itself,
result in significant land speculation. Possible speculation effects should
also be minimized by the state's effort to achieve most of the component
target through a relatively small number of large land purchases by the state
or cooperatives. One of the key elements in assuring that component targets
are achieved and that this relatively modest initial effort can be expanded
later to benefit a larger share of the state's numerous non-landowner farmers
or currently very small-scale owner-operators will be flexibility in the
application of the "one-module-minimum" criterion (para 4.20).   During
negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1978 new guidelines permitting financing of smaller
plots of land so long as the plots by themselves or together with any land
owned by the farmer concerned are estimated to yield for each adult family
labor unit to be absorbed at least the minimum regional annual wage. Account
would also be taken of the managerial and financial capacity of the farmer
concerned and the socio-economic situation in the area where the plot is
located. The Government would concurrently prepare an administrative plan to
expedite more efficiently land purchases by small farmers in the project area
and to speed the processing of applications for small land purchase loans, the
plan to be be implemented after consultation with the Bank.
4.23      Land Surveying and Titling Services.  Prior to the state's passage
of a new land law in 1972 and creation of the Bahia Land Institute (Instituto
de Terras da Bahia, INTERBA) in 1975, the administration of lands and security
of land ownership in Bahia suffered serious weaknesses. Speculators in
public lands were able to amass considerable holdings and smallholders were
frequently dispossessed of their land by forced removal, intimidation or
destruction of crops and property. Though the 1972 law defined the legal
procedure for granting titles and disposing of public lands, it is estimated
that still less than 5% of the farmers in the project area who consider them-
selves "owners" of their land actually have title. The percentage is even
less (2%) for farmers with under 100 ha. The lack of definitive title is a
serious constraint to farmers in developing permanent increases in their
incomes because the farmer without title remains subject to dispossession
(a phenomenon very difficult to control). For all farmers, but especially
small farmers, who have little political or economic power, security of
tenure reduces "uncertainty" while also increasing the incentive to invest-
ment and facilitating access to production services, particularly credit.



- 23 -
4.24      The project would significantly expand the capacity of INTERBA to
survey the lands of, and grant titles to, small-scale farmers in the project
area. A total of 15,000 titles (roughly equivalent to the number of "owner-
operators" expected to participate in the project) would be granted. The
project would finance the costs of office and surveying equipment, vehicles
and materials required for a small headquarters unit in Salvador "ad 6 field
offices serving the project area (4 established and 2 being established in
early 1978); and the staffing, operating and maintenance costs of the system
during the five-year project period. Field operations would include promotion
work, initial title request processing and property surveys, with final legal
clearances and processing done in Salvador. Since current cadastral data,
a key input in the titling process, are not available in much of the project
area (land disputes recently have been particularly common in parts of the
area), and to help avoid the virtual stoppage of titling activity that could
result from localized disputes or litigation, INTERBA would carry out full
cadastral reviews in some localities during the first two years of project
execution, in addition to its regular surveying-titling work. Because of the
importance of clarifying and resolving these problems quickly, INTERBA has
already established a cadastral review unit at its Utinga agency. Agreement
was reached with the Government during negotiations that the establishment of
2 additional cadastral review units (at Seabra and Maracas) be a condition of
disbursement for the component. Overall, the intensive field work by INTERBA
should also put the agency in a good position to help advise the Project
Management Unit on problems encountered by the area's non-landowner farmers
in their rental or sharecropping arrangements and possible improvements which
the project might subsequently promote, as well as to help identify potential
beneficiaries for the land purchase credit component (para 4.22).
4.25      Taking into account all expected baseline costs of the component,
the cost per title would average around US$350 equivalent, over half attri-
butable to surveying costs. As the service is considered a prerequisite
to developing small-scale agriculture in this area, the state would charge
the farmer only a nominal fee, usually amounting to less than 5% of the
cost.
4.26      Cooperative Society Support.  With one exception, the 8 cooperative
societies currently operating in the project area are composed mainly of
livestock ranchers and larger farmers. The exception, the Serrinha coopera-
tive, processes sisal. Otherwise, the principal activity of the cooperatives
is to offer input supply services to members. Cooperatives receive (as
groups and individuals) agricultural technical assistance and cooperative
promotion advice from cooperative specialists of EMATER-BA, the state exten-
sion service, which also collaborates with the Cooperatives Division (DCOOP)
of the Secretariat of Agriculture in providing managerial and bookkeeping
advice. As part of the project, the state intends to reinforce this support,
and through this help increase the small farmer participation in some of the
cooperative societies. Given, however, the possibly conflicting interests of
the different types of producers in some of the existing cooperatives, the
project may also see the gradual development of new cooperatives or "pre-
cooperatives" from the farmer groups stemming out of project extension activi-
ties. Whether with existing or new cooperatives, pre-cooperatives or informal



- 24 -
farmer groups, the final objectives of the project support would be to develop
re-ter financial and managerial self-sufficiency of the cooperatives or
groups as a mechanism for improving services to small farmers and, where
cooperative society strength and demand warrant, to expand the range of their
services from input supply to certain marketing activities, credit channeling,
and the preparation of land purchase and redistribution projects.
4.27      The project would finance salaries and travel costs during the
project period for an expanded DCOOP headquarters and field staff working
with project area cooperatives (some of this staff would be seconded to the
cooperative society and gradually paid for, according to a pre-arranged
schedule, by the society concerned); minor equipment and vehicle purchases;
costs of pre- and in-service training for DCOOP and cooperative society staff;
and miscellaneous DCOOP operating and materials costs. Execution of the
component would be accompanied by intensified coordination by the Secretariat
of Agriculture of the activities of the various agencies currently associated
with cooperative development, including (in addition to DCOOP and EMATER-BA)
the National Cooperative Credit Bank, the Bahia Organization of Cooperatives,
the National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform, and others.
4.28      Mechanization/Input Supply.  The bulk of planned on-farm development
(mainly land clearing, permanent crop installation and initial soil preparation)
expected among project beneficiaries would be labor intensive. Certain develop-
ments, however, such as some land leveling and drainage works for irrigation
and construction of dams for the small and medium sized livestock producers
would require mechanized support. Few of the expected participants have
motorized farm machinery, though in some areas local merchants or large-scale
farmers and/or CAMAB (the state mechanization service and agricultural supplies
company) hire out machinery. CAMAB's service network does not cover many parts
of the project area. CAMAB does not monopolize (nor is it likely to) 'the
provision of farm inputs and mechanization services but its presence is viewed
by the state as an important means to assure that at least the inputs (includ-
ing, for example, the improved seeds produced under the project experimentation
and seed production component) and mechanization services required for state
supported development efforts are available when and where needed and that,
where there are few other suppliers, prices remain competitive.
4.29      The state policy is for CAMAB to operate insofar as possible as
a self-financing entity. CAMAB is accustomed to arranging local bank financ-
ing for its commercial activities and setting its prices to ensure that costs
and debt service are covered. Parallel to the project (without project
financing), CAMAB would establish around 20 new retail input supply outlets,
mainly using small rented buildings. Cooperative societies might eventually
take over operation of several of the input supply points and CAMAB concen-
trate on wholesale supply of inputs in the project area. With respect to
mechanization services, a small amount of project financing would be required
to allow CAMAB to relocate a part of its machinery pool to the currently
poorly served western part of the project area. This is also where mechani-
zation services will most likely be required for irrigation related invest-
ment. Project costs would be limited to installation of a new equipment
storage depot and workshop in Iraquara, and purchasing of several vehicles and



- 25 -
office equipment. The tractors and farm equipment to be used by CAMAB would
come initially from CAMAB's existing pool, with any later necessary purchases
financed (parallel to the project) by local banks as is CAMAB's current prac-
tice. During negotiations, assurances were received from the state that it
would cause CAMAB to take all the steps necessary to establish or maintain
input supply and mechanization services as required to support project farm
development. The signing of a satisfactory project participation agreement
between the state and CAMAB would be a condition of disbursement for the
component (para 6.11).
4.30      Irrigation.  Though soils in parts of the Paraguacu Basin would
permit an economic development of irrigation, very little of the project
area is currently irrigated, for lack of both systematic technical assistance
and the physical and service infrastructure required for any significant
agricultural development. The project would seek to introduce and foster
improved irrigation and would include the studies and technical assistance
for, and installation of, several small irrigation and drainage schemes.
These would comprise mainly the rehabilitation or development by groups of
farmers of small irrigation projects using water from local rivers, wells
and proposed multi-purpose dams (see para. 4.33). An estimated 500 farmers,
irrigating a total of 1,500 ha, are expected to benefit.
4.31      The potential works would be identified by EMATER-BA extension
agents and the necessary preparation and design work would be carried out
by CERB, the state's rural engineering company, which will also be executing
the multi-purpose dam and village water supply (para 4.44) components.
Rehabilitation and expansion works would be carried out on about 5 existing
small schemes (3 already pre-identified) that would eventually irrigate a
total of about 400 ha. New schemes would be built around several existing
wells, most of the proposed small multi-purpose dams and at several sites
along the area's permanent rivers (e.g., the Santo Antonio, Una, Utinga
and Paraguacu itself), to irrigate eventually a total of about 1,100 ha.
Usually less than 30 farmers would be involved in any one scheme. Works would
be carried out by existing or new farmer groups and water user associations
under CERB supervision and, as necessary, contracting the state mechanization
service company, CAMAB, or private companies for construction. The study,
training and technical assistance costs (personnel, materials, contracted
services) of CERB would be financed by the project on a grant basis. The
off-farm or communal irrigation works and equipment would be financed through
group loans, under the project agriculture investment credit. On-farm works
would also be financed under the project credit component, but through either
individual or group loans, depending on the situation.
4.32      It is expected that some 500 farmers would benefit under the
irrigation component, with about 3 ha irrigated each, at an average total
cost per farmer of some US$4,200, excluding studies and farmer training.
During the first year of the project, the project unit (with the collaboration
of EMATER-BA, CERB and the participating banks) would prepare a brief manual
outlining the sub-project selection, preparation and evaluation criteria
(e.g., rate of return, technical feasibility, organization) to be utilized.



- 26 -
During negotiations, agreements were be reached that: (i) a condition of
disbursement for this subcomponent would be the preparation of a draft manual
on sub-project preparation and evaluation criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) the detailed plans for and evaluation of any one small-scale irriga-
tion scheme requiring more than a total of US$250,000 in off- and on-farm
investment would be provided to the Bank for agreement prior to inclusion in
the project. Details of the other minor schemes financed under the project
would be made available to the Bank for review during the course of project
supervision.
4.33      Multi-purpose Dams.  The central part of the Paraguacu Basin has
traditionally suffered from irregular and low rainfall and the fact that
ground water of adequate quality and quantity can be tapped only at very deep
levels in most of the area. The situation results in considerable social
hardship as well as difficult-to-quantify costs associated with labor produc-
tivity losses caused by use of contaminated water and losses in agricultural
and livestock production for lack of water. Not unlike other parts of the
drought-prone Northeast, this situation in the past has led to various pro-
posals to undertake massive public works programs in dam construction.
Several such programs have been executed (mainly in other Northeast states)
and some of the dams have been very beneficial in helping communities avoid
long-distance water transport costs, animal deaths and severe hardship during
drought. Relatively few, however, have been fully exploited for continued use
for village water supply, fisheries or irrigation. The Ministry of Agriculture
did construct a small number of dams in the central part of the Paraguacu
Basin during the 1960's and an effort is currently being made by the state to
review this experience and to try to adapt it to the needs and targets of the
proposed rural develoment activities, especially taking into account the
virtual certainty that small dams would be the least-cost village water supply
solution for a fair number of the target communities. As part of this effort,
the project would include the feasibility studies for the design and construc-
tion of 12 small earth dams.
4.34      It is expected that the dams (with average earth volumes of 12,000 m3
and water volumes of up to 250,000 m3) would be located and sited to serve
village water supply as well as small irrigation schemes. Construction of the
dams (for which design and construction costs are expected to average roughly
US$85,000 each) would utilize local labor to the extent possible. Once
constructed, the dams would be subject to the general operation and maintenance
supervision of specially assigned CERB technicians (one for every three dams)
with day-to-day operation of water supply systems the responsibility of the
community health societies (paras 4.44-4.46) and of irrigation the local water
user association or irrigation group (paras 4.30-4.32). Some dams could also
serve small fisheries projects and provide emergency watering points for
livestock during droughts. Use for electricity generation is not foreseen.
The component would be executed by CERB, the state's rural engineering company.
Assurances were received during negotiations that: (i) by December 31, 1978,
feasibility studies and preliminary plans, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
completed for the 12 dams; and (ii) the state would cause CERB to provide
appropriate supervision and periodic maintenance of the dam structures, once
they are completed.



- 27 -
4.35      Crop Storage.  The project would include the construction and
equipping of six relatively small (about 700 ton capacity) storage units by
the state storage company, CASEB, for sack storage of mainly beans and maize.
The component is based on a conservative estimate of storage demand (to handle
less than total potential storage needs for these crops in the project area),
partly because of the past very low level of small farmer use of uff-farm
storage. This situation stems from small farmers' reluctance to use distant
units and incur relatively high transport costs for the small amount of
storable production per individual farmer, as well as a tradition of on-farm
sack and even small silo storage. Improved on-farm storage facilities for
crops such as beans, corn and manioc flour are among the on-farm investments
expected to be financed under the project's agricultural credit component. At
the same time, however, the state wants to test in several selected sub-areas
(so taking advantage of project access road improvements) the functioning of
two complementary mechanisms that might provide important long term improve-
ments in the market and production conditions encountered by the small producer.
4.36      One mechanism would be the Government minimum price scheme of the
Production Finance Commission (CFP), under which a farmer can receive short
term Bank of Brazil market financing, the amount financed being based on the
minimum price valuation of stored production. Except for sisal, the minimum
price scheme has not operated in the project area for lack of storage facili-
ties, limited CFP interest in other than export crops and BB (as the CFP agent)
and CFP reluctance to deal with a large number of individual farmers. The
second mechanism would be the advance purchase scheme (CAP, "compra anticipada
de producao") being tested under the supervision of the Brazilian Food Company
(COBAL) in several Northeastern localities. Under this scheme, very small-
scale producers organized in small groups can get limited advances against
promised production of certain crops and so have a guaranteed buyer for at
least the minimum price. Advances are a percentage of individual sales
contracts, the total value of the latter never exceeding US$800-900 equivalent.
The functioning of both mechanisms will require local bulk storage capacity,
as well as the promotional support of project extension activities and the
development of farmer groups and cooperative societies planned under the
project.
4.37      The project-financed storage units (which, if the above-mentioned
tests prove successful, the state hopes to replicate in 12 other locations in
the project area) would have a modular design and could eventually be expanded
to 3,000 ton units. They would be constructed along the lines of a standard
model with cement floors, walls of local concrete building blocks and roofs
of sheet metal or local tile. Construction would be contracted by CASEB
to local construction firms. The units would be located in significant
commercial centers not already served by CASEB and near Bank of Brazil
agencies. Probable locations are Castro Alves, Iacu, Iraquara, Barra da
Estiva, Ipira, and Lamarao. CASEB would apply its periodically adjusted
standard storage tariffs. With a unit annually having about 3,600 ton-months
of produce storage and 900 ton-months of input storage by the state input
supply company (CAMAB), cooperative societies or local merchants, as well as
fumigation services, the tariffs would cover expected minimal storage opera-
ting and maintenance costs and capital cost recovery over about 25 years.



- 28 -
During negotiations agreement was reached that the signing of project partic-
-pation agreements with COBAL (to operate and arrange recurrent financing for
advance purchase scheme activities), CFP (to broaden operations of the minimum
price scheme in the project area) and CASEB (to build, operate and maintain
the storage units) would be a condition of disbursement for the storage compo-
nent.
4.38         Feeder Roads.  In the Paraguacu area there are some 9,000 km of
unpaved municipal roads linking rural settlements with municipal centers and
the state and federal highway systems. Most municipal roads are no more than
one-lane earth tracks impassible for much of the rainy season; those in the
less densely populated western highland part of the project area are often
dangerous, having steep gradients and tortuous bends. In order to help
assure a greater use of cultivable land, farm inputs and agricultural and
social services and greater access to markets in the selected project micro-
regions, the project would include engineering design and construction or
upgrading of about 1,140 km of low-cost feeder and access roads. The roads,
classified mainly according to projected traffic, would include: (i) about
404 km of improved one-lane (4.5 m wide) earth roads, the construction works
costing on average US$10,700/km; (ii) 517 km of gravel surfaced all-weather
one-lane roads, costing an average of US$12,700/km; and (iii) 218 km of gravel
surfaced two-lane (6m wide) roads, costing an average of US$21,000/km. The
design standards for the three road classes (see Annex 1) were agreed during
negotiations. Execution of the works would be the responsibility of CRIBA
(the Intermunicipal Road Consortium of Bahia), a largely state-owned company
created in 1966 to assist municipalities study, engineer and construct local
roads. CRIBA has a small but competent staff. It contracts most of its
engineering design and construction works to local firms. It would contract
consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist in the
design of project roads.
4.39      The priority road sections (a total of 116 sections averaging about
10 km) were identified in an extensive road inventory and feasibility study
carried out by the state in light of agricultural development plans. That
study also identified some 700 km (14 sections) of higher standard federal and
state collector roads that will be necessary in the Paraguacu area to support
the agricultural development activities as well as other expected transport
and economic developments (see Annex 2). The state is planning to submit
these latter roads to BNDE (the National Economic Development Bank) for
financing under the secondary and feeder road program partly financed by Bank
loan 1207-BR. Agreement was reached with the state during negotiations that
it would construct the 14 collector roads by March 31, 1982 (the end of the
fourth year of the project).
4.40      Maintenance of municipal roads is the responsibility of each
municipality. Although the state highway department (DERBA) assists by
hiring its motorgraders to municipalities and charging only for operating
costs, the municipalities are usually short of maintenance funds and,
consequently, municipal roads are often neglected. The state of Bahia is
currently preparing (with a view to requesting Bank financing as part of a
future highway project) a program to strengthen and expand its capacity to



- 29 -
maintain state and federal highways. The state is also trying to define
suitable arrangements to provide regular maintenance of municipal roads
(in which labor-intensive activities such as grass cutting, ditch and culvert
cleaning and pot-hole repairing would remain the responsibility of the muni-
cipalities). Assurances were received from the state during negotiations that
by December 31, 1978 it would provide to the Bank for comment its program for
the strengthening and expanding of DERBA's maintenance capacity in the project
area, including the definition of required equipment purchases, training plans
for both DERBA and municipality staff, and sources and amounts of funding
planned to assure execution of the program. Assurances were also received
that the state would maintain the project roads and that, prior to starting
construction of project road works in a particular municipality, the state
would secure the municipality's agreement to allocate the necessary funding
and manpower to assist DERBA in maintaining appropriately the roads constructed
or upgraded under the project.
4.41      Health Services.  The project would develop an expanded low-cost
rural health delivery system that would give primary emphasis to maternal
and child groups and rural workers and at full development would serve
directly some 110,000 people. The health component would be administered
by the State Secretariat of Health (SESAB) and its operational arm FUSEB
(Bahia State Health Foundation) and would include: (i) the construction
and equipping of 50 village health posts ("miniposts"); (ii) the construction,
upgrading or equipping of 27 health centers that would offer various higher
level health services and partly act as referral points for project-financed
miniposts as well as for some 40 similar village health posts constructed in
1976 and 1977 by POLONORDESTE; (iii) the development of an improved building
and equipment maintenance system and provision of spare parts for health posts
and centers; (iv) the training of health workers; and (v) the strengthening of
the supervisory and project execution capacity of SESAB/FUSEB. The project
would finance construction and equipment costs; instructor salary, participant
travel and boarding, and materials costs of the training program; and salary
complements, technical assistance, equipment and operating costs for health
component administration in SESAB/FUSEB.
4.42      Execution of the health component would build upon a significant
community organization and promotion effort by the social extensionists of
EMATER-BA (see para. 4.09), who would assist in the formation of village
health societies. These societies would help define community health
service priorities, contribute materials and/or labor to health post con-
struction, offset a small part of health service costs through modest health
pre-payment fees, contribute to the financing and managing of village water
supply systems (see para 4.46), and in some cases provide a basis for greater
community involvement in other project development activities. Each local
health post would be staffed with a SESAB-paid health attendant. Local health
services would be very simple, focussing on the provision of pre-natal care,
vaccinations, health and nutrition education, and selected curative treatments.
The health post would also provide a valuable mechanism for executing parallel
Government endemic disease and nutrition programs. Similarly, the project
health centers would also serve as channels for food supplementation activities
financed by the National Food and Nutrition Institute, INAN, for undernourished



- 30 -
referred patients. Project training would be directed toward the rural health
attendants, traditional mid-wives, regional health service supervisors, health
center attendants and laboratory auxiliaries.
4.43      The health component is of a very modest size for a variety of
reasons, including current administrative weaknesses in the regional offices
of SESAB/FUSEB and inadequacies in previous training and supervision efforts
and in the coordination of health services. Also, preparation of a special
endemic disease control sub-component (schistosomiasis, Chagas disease and
leishmaniasis are prevalent in the project area) could not be undertaken
as SUCAM, the Government's Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns, has
recently had to allocate virtually all of its attention in Bahia to combatting
the development of the mosquito vector of yellow fever in the Greater Salvador
area. However, development of endemic disease control programs in the project
area will be necessary: (i) to help assure that project-financed improvements
in health services are sustained and health and water supply component objec-
tives fully achieved (endemic diseases being among the important health
problems, and the sanitation and pit latrine programs likely to be included in
a schistosomiasis control program being key complements to the water supply
program); and (ii) to help ensure that health conditions not be inadvertently
worsened by other project activities (e.g., increasing schistosomiasis in
irrigation areas or importing malaria as a result of greater population mobil-
ity). Agreement was reached during negotiations that: (i) the Government
would prepare endemic disease control programs for the project area, covering
at least schistosomiasis and malaria, provide the program plans to the Bank by
December 31, 1978 for comment, and execute the programs promptly thereafter;
(ii) by December 31, 1978, the Bank would be provided, for comment, the
details of training models, training objectives and techniques, course outlines
and training evaluation criteria for the rural health attendant training
courses; (iii) consultants would be contracted, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, to assist in the preparation of a health service manage-
ment information system; and (iv) that conditions of Bank disbursements
for the health component would be (a) the completion of supplementary project
staffing by SESAB/FUSEB of the regional offices to be in charge of component
execution and (b) the signing of project participation agreements between
SESAB/FUSEB and EMATER-BA (regarding the latter's role in community organiza-
tion work and collaboration in supervision), SESAB/FUSEB and the municipal
governments (regarding their commitment to donate land for and help finance
operations of health or sanitation facilities) and SESAB/FUSEB and FUNRURAL
(also regarding contributions to the financing of health costs).
4.44      Village Water Supply.  In conjunction with the proposed health
activities, the project would provide for the study, design and construction
of about 70 village water supply systems providing potable water to some
35,000 people; the strengthening of state and local capacity to maintain such
systems; and the training of village water system operators. As with other
health-related services, one of the key initial project activities would be
the EMATER-BA community organization effort, which would need to involve both
men and women. The community health societies formed to help support local
health miniposts would also be responsible for (i) contributing land, funds,



- 31 -
labor and/or local materials to help finance construction of the water system;
(ii) operating and managing the systems through locally hired sanitation
auxiliaries; and (iii) collecting user charges to offset operating costs.
In some cases where, because of the spatial distribution of the population, a
fairly large number of the health society members are not able to benefit
directly from the water services and therefore need not be expectcd to contri-
bute directly or as fully to water system operation and maintenance, it may
be desirable to form a separate society (or sub-group within the health society)
to manage the water system. The water systems would range in complexity from
very simple systems (deep well, pump, storage tank, public hydrants) in
villages with up to 500 inhabitants to systems including elevated storage
tanks, more extended distribution and some house connections in towns with up
to 2,000 people. Water system design and construction would be carried out by
CERB, the state's rural engineering company, which would also be responsible
for providing, through a new regional office in the project area, supervision
and maintenance backstopping. CERB has considerable experience in well-drilling
and small-scale water supply system construction. Community contributions to
installation would be reimbursed by CERB in the form of the establishment of
special community funds usable only for asset renewal or major maintenance.
4.45      Construction of several already identified systems could begin in
the first year of the project. However, because in places adequate water
sources are difficult to tap, and because the success of the component will
hinge on the adequacy of community organization and maintenance capacity, CERB
will need to carry out several special studies. The project would finance
the costs of these studies as well as the equipment, materials and construc-
tion costs of the water systems and the cost of regional maintenance equipment
and a spare parts pool to be administered by CERB. One study would be a
global feasibility study to identify water sources, locate and test wells,
define technical standards and other criteria (e.g., benefitting the largest
possible number of the low-income part of the local population at the lowest
feasible cost) for various types of systems, detail investment and
operating cost estimates, and define the remainder of the phased investment
plan. A second series of studies would define a training program for local
sanitation auxiliaries and prepare simplified manuals for local operation
and maintenance, and also would detail the personnel and equipment require-
ments and operating plans for CERB to offer regional supervision and main-
tenance. A third series of studies, conducted in collaboration with
EMATER-BA, would develop detailed strategies and work plans for the pro-
motion of the proposed community health societies. These studies would also
define the user charge collection mechanism that would ensure communities
assume (gradually, if necessary, in smaller or poorer communities) at least
the full operating and maintenance costs of the system and, where immediate
community coverage of operating and maintenance costs is not possible, the
definition of specific funding arrangements and agreements for phasing out
the subsidies.
4.46      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that:
(i) by December 31, 1978, the Bank would be provided, for comment, the results
of the pre-investment, maintenance and organization studies (including draft



- 32 -
operating manuals and training plans); (ii) completion of a project participa-
-s-in agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between SESAB, CERB and EMATER-BA
outlining their respective responsibilities on the component would be a con-
ditIon of disbursements for the component; and (iii) prior to starting con-
struction of a particular system, the recipient community would have already
established a health society or water user association, agreed formally to
contribute a specified amount in kind or cash to the construction of the
system, and also agreed to define and collect the user charges necessary to
finance the system's operating and maintenance costs, with the exception that,
in communities of under 500 population, user charges could initially cover as
little as 50% of operating and maintenance costs but only if the community had
the prior formal agreement of the municipality to provide the necessary
supplements to locally collected user charges during a specified period of not
more than 5 years, after which the community would be fully responsible.
4.47      Education and Vocational Training.  The education component would
expand education and training opportunities in the project area as well
as substantially improve the quality of rural primary education. Execution
of the component would be managed mainly by specially assigned staff in
the Secretariat of Education (SEC), and would include: (i) the construction,
furnishing and equipping of 100 rural primary schools for a total of 14,000
student places, double shift; (ii) the preparation and introduction of a
new curriculum and new teaching materials for grades 1-4 in project area
rural schools; (iii) the training and/or upgrading of 1,200 project area rural
teachers and 259 education and training supervisors; (iv) the provision of
occupational training, through the National Services for Industrial and
Commercial Apprenticeships--SENAI and SENAC, respectively--for about 3,000
youths and adults in the subjects of carpentry, drawing, electricity, masonry,
mechanics, accounting, secretarial skills and commerce; (v) the carrying out,
by the overall Project Management Unit, under agreements with the Federal
University of Bahia, of several special studies on training needs (of both
men and women) and employment projections; and (vi) the strengthening of the
capacity of SEC to administer and supervise the component. The project would
finance design, civil works, equipment and furnishings for the primary schools;
consultancy and printing costs for development of the new teaching materials
to be tested; consultancy fees, participant transport and boarding costs,
teaching materials and trainer salaries for the teacher and supervisor upgrad-
ing program; instructor salary, subsistence and travel costs and materials and
operating costs for the vocational training services contracted with SENAI and
SENAC; the fees, materials and operating costs of the studies; and salary
complements for full-time formal and non-formal component coordinating and
supervision units in SEC and full salaries for staff to reinforce the construc-
tion supervision staff of SEC during the respective sub-component execution
periods, and the equipment, materials and operating costs of component admin-
istration.
4.48      New rural primary schools would be constructed according to proto-
type plans, which have been reviewed and found satisfactory, in sites where the
population is at least 1,500 within a catchment. area of about 28 km2; where
insufficient or inadequate facilities exist and students need to walk more



- 33 -
than 3 km to reach the school; and where year-round vehicle access exists.
Agreement to this effect was reached during negotiations as was agreement
that: (i) a detailed site plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for schools to be
built under the project during any given POLONORDESTE fiscal year would be
provided to the Bank by November 30 the preceeding year; and (ii) disbursements
against construction costs would be conditioned upon provision to the Bank of
satisfactory evidence of acquisition of the respective sites.
4.49      The teacher/supervisor upgrading, curriculum development, special
studies and occupational training sub-components are all facets of an effort
to improve the quality of rural education in the project area and to adapt
educational and training opportunities to local needs. A further facet
of this effort, to be carried out parallel to the Bank-financed activities,
would be the improvement of rural teachers' salaries (previously the respon-
sibility solely of the often fiscally weak municipalities), through the
Government program already in motion to increase gradually federal revenue
sharing to the municipalities (part of which should be available for rural
education financing) as well as increased state contributions to rural educa-
tion financing. To help assure the effectiveness of the package of "quality
improvement" measures, assurances were received during negotiations that:
(i) prior to starting project school construction in a particular municipality,
the state would secure the municipality's agreement to give priority to the
continued employment of the trained teachers following their successful
completion of the training course and pay at least the minimum salaries
guaranteed by SEC for teachers on the state's payroll; (ii) the state would
give priority to the continued employment of project-trained education super-
visors following their successful completion of the training course; (iii) by
December 31, 1978 the state would complete a final draft, satisfactory to the
Bank, of the revised curriculum and would initiate use of the new curriculum
no later than the beginning of the 1980 school year; (iv) by June 30, 1979 the
state would provide the Bank for comment the results of the first of the
several planned socioeconomic and long-term training need surveys and of the
employment projection study and appropriately incorporate these results in the
detailed project vocational training plans for subsequent years; and (v) the
state would provide adequate funding to maintain appropriately the education
facilities and services developed under the project. A condition of disburse-
ment for the component would be SEC's entering into satisfactory project
agreements with SENAI and SENAC.
4.50      Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Though the
project would mainly be executed by existing institutions, a special Project
Management Unit ("Unidade Tecnica") would be maintained in CEPA-BA to coordi-
nate the planning, implementation, monitoring and control of finances of the
project (see paras 6.02-6.09). This unit would include a headquarters staff
in Salvador as well as 3 small regional field offices within the project area.
The state would also establish a separate evaluation group (see paras 6.13-6.14)
answering to the President of the State's POLONORDESTE Management Council.
Project investment costs include the costs of equipping, staffing and providing
necessary materials and contracted services to maintain these groups during
the five-year project period. Included would be the equivalent of about 224



- 34 -
man-months of local consultancy services (at an average cost per man-month of
US$3,000 equivalent) for various studies on either special technical or eval-
uation issues, as well as data processing services. During negotiations,
assurances were received from the Government that the qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment of the consultants would be satisfactory
to the Bank.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total project cost over the 5 year project period (April 1978 -
March 1983) is estimated at US$106.6 million, which includes physical contin-
gencies 1/ equivalent to 6% of the baseline cost, the price contingencies 2/
equivalent to 26% of baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Baseline costs
have been estimated at appraisal prices, namely, late 1977 Cruzeiros converted
to US$ at rate of US$1.00 to Cr$15.00. The estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent is US$17.5 million or about 16% of total project costs. The project cost
summary is given overleaf and the yearly phasing is given in Annex 3.
1/   Physical contingencies of 7% were added to the extension, experimenta-
tion, seed production, land titling, cooperative society support, mecha-
nization/input supply and project administration components; 10% to
the small-scale irrigation, multi-purpose dam, feeder road, storage and
education components; and 15% to the health and sanitation component.
The physical contingencies were established to reflect, by component, the
extent to which adjustments may prove necessary in physical quantities.
This, in part, reflected the extent to which baseline costs were derived
from final engineering design or component detail and, where possible,
experience with recent comparable investments. On the road component,
for example, though detailed engineering is not yet available, the
baseline cost estimates were derived from a study of each of the road
sections expected to be built or upgraded, taking into account quantities,
costs and typical adjustments during the final design stage of recent
comparable works. The 10% physical contingency reflects possible further
quantity increases which may prove necessary during construction of the
roads.
2/   Price contingencies were calculated in US$ terms as follows:  for civil
works, 9% in 1977, 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% per year thereafter;
for equipment, 9% in 1977, 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% per year
thereafter; for other materials and supplies, credit, salaries, etc.,
8% in 1977 and 7% per year thereafter.



-35-
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Total Project Costs
(US$ millions)
% of Total
Credit                                  Local   Foreign   Total    Baseline Costs   X Foreign Exchange
Investment Credit:
Agriculture                         10.42     1.16    11.58           14.5                 10
Irrigation (On-Farm)                0.54      0.14      0.68          0.8                  20
Irrigation (Group, Off-Farm)         1.06     0.35      1.41           1.8                 25
Livestock                            2.92     0.32      3.24           4.1                 10
Increment4l Worziua  Capital Credit   8.00      1.03      9.03          11.4                 15
Land Purchase Credit                   1.85     0.00      1.85           2.3                  0
344.9
Production Support
Agricultural Services:
Extension and Demonstration          9.51     1.27    10.78           13.6                 12
Experimentation/Seed Production    2.31       0.28      2.59           3.2                 11
Cooperative Society Support          0.53     0.06      0.59          0.7                  10
Mechanization/Tnput Supply           0.06     0.02      0.08           0.1                 28
Land Titling and Surveying           4.83     0.58      5.41           6.8                 11
Irrigation Technical Asst./Studies 0.48       0.08      0.56           0.7                 15
25.1
Infrastructure:
Pilot Multi-Purpose Dams             1.03     0.40      1.43           1.8                 28
Off-farm Storage                     0.29     0.07      0.36           0.4                 20
Feeder Roads                        11.59     5.41    17.00           21.4                 32
23.6
Social Infrastructure
Health and Village Water Supply    3.14        0.70     3.84           4.8                 18
Education and Vocational Training  4.67       0.86      5.53           6.9                 16
Project Administration
Project Management/Monitoring        2.78      0.31     3.09           3.9                 10
Evaluation                           0.55      0.06     0.61           0.8                 10
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    66.56    13.10    79.66          100.0                  16
Physical Contingencies               4.09      0.80     4.89           6.1                 16
Price Contingencies                 18.45      3.62    22.07          26.1 1/              16
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     89.10    17-52   106.62          133.9                  16
1/ Price contingencies as percentage of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.



- 36 -
Financing
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$37 million to the Federative Repu-
blic of Brazil would finance 35% of total project costs, the balance being
financed by the Federal Government under its POLONORDESTE program. The
loan would be for 15 years including 3 years of grace. It would cover the
project's full foreign exchange costs of US$17.5 million equivalent, as
well as US$19.5 million or 22% of the local costs.
5.03      In a country like Brazil, which is making a vigorous effort to
mobilize domestic resources, it would be appropriate for the Bank to give
assistance in financing some of the local currency expenditures on projects
like the proposed, which have very high priority and yet have a relatively
low foreign exchange content (in this case, 16%). The situation typically
arises in agriculture and rural development projects in Brazil in view of
the high capability of the Brazilian economy in the production of the inputs
required for investments of this type. If the Bank is to be effective in
supporting a project of this kind, it seems reasonable for it to finance at
least 35% of the costs even though this entails financing some local currency
expenditures. During negotiations, assurances were received from the Govern-
ment that adequate funds would be made available promptly for the purpose of
effective and timely execution of the project. The Government has also
assured that it would operate and maintain appropriately the facilities
and services developed under the project and arrange adequate, timely funding
for that purpose. The state has assured that it would arrange for the timely
acquisition of any additional land or rights-of-way which prove necessary
for project works.
5.04      To help assure a prompt start of the project, various activities
such as the recruitment and training of staff for the project unit and
extension service, the engineering design of feeder roads and hydrological
surveys to locate water supply sources, the initiation of on-farm investments
and provision of credit will have begun during the first half of 1978. For
this reason, retroactive financing of up to US$1,000,000 equivalent is proposed
to help cover eligible expenditures after March 31, 1978, but before the loan
is signed.
Procurement
5.05      Farm inputs would be procured by individual farmers through local
trade channels. The equipment and vehicles required (in relatively small
amounts) over the project execution period by the numerous agencies respon-
sible for the different project components are locally produced and readily
available. Such items (amounting to a total of roughly US$2.0 million
without contingencies) would be procured in accordance with local procurement
and bidding procedures, which are acceptable. Construction works (totalling
US$15.5 million without contingencies) for the feeder roads would be divided
into 19 construction lots (all executed during project years II-IV). The
Bank would review the standard construction bidding and contract documents
before the first round of bidding. Contracts for these works and for the



- 37 -
civil works required for the pilot multi-purpose dams, storage units, extension
facilities and rural primary schools (an additional US$5.1 million) would be
awarded to prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with satisfactory procedures. Brazil has a competi-
tive local construction industry capable of carrying out the project works.
Since the individual construction works are relatively small and quite dis-
persed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, though they
would not be excluded from bidding. All of the other construction works
included in the project (for health posts, water supply, mechanization service
installations and the like, and totalling some US$2.6 million) would be of
very minor size and varied design as well as geographically dispersed.
Consequently, these would be carried out through a combination of self-help,
force account and local bidding. Consultancy services, all of which are
expected to be local, would include about 540 man-months at a total cost of
approximately US$2.25 million equivalent (an average of about US$4,160 per
man-month, with an expected range from US$3,000 to around US$5,000 depending
on the type of consultancy). About two-thirds of the consultancy services
would be for engineering on feeder roads, just under one-third for various
technical assistance on project administration and evaluation, and the small
remainder for technical assistance on the education and health components.
Disbursements
5.06      The proposed loan, which would finance 35% of total project costs,
would be disbursed against all project expenditures except land purchase
credit. Bank disbursements would, therefore, be equivalent to 36% of expen-
ditures for each component other than land purchase. Disbursements would be
made to the Central Bank of Brazil, the fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE
program, against withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditures
initiated by the various implementing agencies under the project and certi-
fied by the Project Unit in CEPA-BA. Supporting documentation for credit,
salaries, administrative expenses and minor construction under force account
would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the Project Unit
and made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
suprvision missions. Standard documentation covering civil works, vehi-
cles and equipment and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
Details of the documents required should be reviewed during negotiations.
Disbursements are expected to occur over about five years. The estimated
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 4.
Accounts and Auditing
5.07      Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of
its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government
auditors (Inspetoria Geral das Financas, IGF) according to standard Govern-
ment practice for POLONORDESTE projects. Both Banco do Brasil and Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit (Divisao
de Auditoria da Contadoria Geral) and BNB is also audited by satisfactory
independent auditors. The Project Management Unit would maintain accounts of
its own project expenditures as well as statements of expenditures by each



- 38 -
participating agency. Copies of the audited statements of project accounts of
the various participating agencies and of the audited statements of the
participating banks and of their lending under the project would be provided
to the Bank through the Project Management Unit within six months of the end
of their fiscal year.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
6.01      General.  The various components of the proposed project (see paras
4.08 - 4.49), with the exception of overall project administration, would be
executed by the existing agencies traditionally responsible for the respective
activity -- e.g., EMATER-BA for extension, the State Secretariat of Education
for education, and so on. A detailed list of these agencies is given, by
project component, in Annex 5. To coordinate and guide development activities
under all its POLONORDESTE projects, the state of Bahia has already created a
POLONORDESTE Management Council (Conselho Diretor, see para 3.01) composed of
representatives of the principal executive agencies and headed by the State
Secretary of Agriculture. The Management Council would therefore guide and
coordinate all activities under the Paraguacu project, but day-to-day coordi-
nation, administration and monitoring of the project would be undertaken by a
Project Management Unit.
6.02      The Project Management Unit (PMU).  A Project Management or Technical
Unit (Unidade Tecnica) was established in 1976 within the State Agricultural
Planning Commission (CEPA-BA, Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola-Bahia)
to complete preparation of the Paraguacu Basin rural development project. While
administratively part of CEPA-BA, the unit is already housed separately and
does not take part in CEPA-BA's other agricultural planning activities. The
unit was restructured in 1977 to gear it mainly to coordination of project
execution. Several further adjustments are planned and should make the unit
well suited to this executive function. A separate evaluation group would be
established for on-going and post-project evaluation (see para 6.13).
6.03      PMU staff would comprise:  an executive coordinator, an average of
eleven technical specialists, five part-time student interns (estagiarios) and
an administrative support staff (administrative assistants, a budget clerk,
typists, drivers) in its Salvador headquarters; and a "regional coordinator"
of technical specialist standing and minimal support staff in each of three
field offices. An organization chart of the PMU is provided in Annex 6. PMU
staff would be slightly larger than that of other recently approved Bank-
financed rural development projects (e.g., Rio Grande do Norte, Loan 1195-BR;
and Ceara-Ibiapaba, Loan 1488-BR), reflecting the greater complexity and
larger size of the Paraguacu project and project area. The proposed staff
size, allocation of staff responsibilities and management organization struc-
ture are intended to help avoid a situation sometimes encountered in projects
of this type in which headquarters technical staff become overburdened with



- 39 -
administrative tasks rather than being involved in more profitable trouble-
shooting, decision-making and innovative functions. Moreover, experience of
other projects suggests field staff play vital coordination and supervision
roles. PMU staff, aside from administrative support and field staff, would be
divided in two main sections: operations and monitoring/planning
6.04      PMU Operations Staff.  Operations staff would coordinate implemen-
tation activities of the numerous executing agencies. To achieve this, there
would be four functional operational groups within the Project Management Unit:
Agricultural Development (agricultural extension, agricultural research and
seed production, and mechanization services and input supply), Production
Support (on-farm and land purchase credit, land surveying and titling services,
cooperative society support, and storage and marketing), Social Infrastructure
(education and training, health and water supply) and Physical Infrastructure
(roads, irrigation works and multi-purpose dams). Under the guidance of an
operations coordinator, on average six operations staff would be assigned to
the four operational groups as required by the complexity of implementation of
the components. The staff of each group would assist the relevant executing
agencies prepare detailed annual project operating plans (paras 6.10-6.11) and
would act as PMU liaisons with the agencies in coordinating project activities
and supervising the progress of each component. While Project Management Unit
operations staff would be based in Salvador, each would be expected to spend
at least 90 days annually in the field. Short-term implementation planning of
each component would take place mainly within executing agencies with the
exception of agricultural development, which would involve a relatively more
active leadership and coordination role by the project unit operations staff
(since CEPA-BA is itself the state's agricultural planning agency).
6.05      PMU Monitoring/Planning Staff.  The section of the Project Manage-
ment Unit dealing with monitoring, long-term planning and special studies
would be headed by a monitoring and planning coordinator. The section would
include initially three technical specialists (including the coordinator),
five student interns, and administrative auxiliaries; other technical staff
could later be transferred from the operations group. The monitoring sub-group
would have two main tasks. First, it would monitor the output or results
of each component and advise the project executive coordinator of short-falls
in project achievements relative to expectations, particularly by comparing
achievements to itemized objectives and indicators by component (see Annex 7).
Standardized monitoring forms would be completed quarterly by executing
agencies and forwarded to the monitoring group for synthesis into quarterly
project reports that would be forwarded to project management, the state
POLONORDESTE Management Council, Regional and Federal POLONORDESTE officials
and the Bank. The monitoring forms would be pre-coded for computer proces-
sing to accelerate and broaden access to project data. Once operating,
monitoring by the project management unit would be chiefly a repetitive
task of ensuring quarterly reports were received from executing agencies
and of processing and analyzing returns. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that: (i) the Project Management Unit would contract a consultant
data analyst, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to help
standardize data requirements among participating agencies and establish



- 40 -
coding and analysis procedures (with a view to extending monitoring formats,
arnalysis and data retrieval to other POLONORDESTE projects) and provide a
report on the recommended procedures to the Bank for review and comment prior
to their implementation; and (ii) the quarterly project reports would be
provided to the Bank promptly upon their completion.
6.06      The second main task of the monitoring sub-group would be to
organize, administer, process, and initially analyze an annual farm pro-
ductivity survey.  The handling of this survey by the PMU rather than the
evaluation group (para 6.13) should help isolate repetitive data collection
and processing from the more qualitative and reflective approach required in
evaluation. In addition, the farm survey operation should have a positive
influence on project implementation by enhancing the PMU staff's awareness of
realities in the project area, especially among the small farmer target
groups, and of development issues in general. Project technical specialist
staff (and student interns) would be involved in survey data collection for
about three weeks annually. This involvement would ensure their intensive
contact with project beneficiaries, an experience few might otherwise gain.
The contact would provide direct feedback between beneficiary and planner and,
hopefully, a better sense of the potential uses as well as shortcomings of
the survey-derived data. It is envisaged that the farm survey would comprise
a small sample (probably less than 700) of participant and non-participant
farmers in the project area. It would be conducted with a fixed format, pre-
coded questionnaire centered on production technology, farm inputs, institu-
tional contact and support, and produce marketing. If greatest possible
value is to be derived from the survey program as a management tool and as a
basis for evaluation and planning, the first year the survey will surely be
the most critical: the questionnaire would need to be created, tested, and
pre-coded; farmers approached, their cooperation sought and the sample selected;
enumerators trained; and, the first year's survey conducted, processed and
analyzed. The PMU would require initial assistance in this work. It was
therefore agreed during negotiations that the PMU would contract consultants
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist in survey prepara-
tion and to establish data processing and analysis procedures, the recommended
survey design and analysis procedures to be communicated to the Bank, for
review and comment prior to implementation. The consultant's terms of
reference would specifically stress that data collection should be tailored to
data analysis capacity and that reports should be prepared in a short enough
time to be of full operational use to the PMU.
6.07      The long-term planning and special studies sub-group would be
responsible for: (i) identifying, organizing and, usually, contracting
out studies of particular problems affecting project implementation that
are too far-ranging or time-consuming for operations staff to investigate;
and (ii) examining, on an annual work-plan schedule, long-term plan-
ning issues affecting project implementation. Examples of the type of
issues that would be examined are: manpower status and projections; agro-
industrial feasibility studies, including processing and marketing possi-
bilities for small livestock products, such as sheep and goat skins, meat
and cheese; ecologically, technologically and economically viable crop



- 41 -
combinations; marketing channels and their cost efficiency; production,
market and price projections for project area crops; and intra-basin
variation in output and input marketing, including variation in prices,
margins, channels, seasonality and volume.
6.08      Field Offices.  Because of the very large size of the project area
and the need to assure good field supervision and coordination of the project,
small field offices have been established at Seabra, Itaberaba and Feira de
Santana. The chief task of the regional coordinator in each will be to
provide administrative continuity and a communication link between the PMU,
executing agencies and beneficiaries to ensure speed and efficiency in project
execution. Local and regional project committees, with representatives of
these groups meeting at least monthly, are already being formed to help
achieve this objective. As well as resolving implementation difficulties,
the role of the regional coordinator as a two-way communication channel should
provide beneficiaries with an impression of where they fit into the broader
regional development plans, help ensure their cooperation, and provide grass-
roots feedback to project administration and executing agencies on implemen-
tation progress and problems.
6.09      The present administrative organization of the POLONORDESTE pro-
gram in Bahia is likely to remain in effect over at least the medium term.
Assurances were received from the state during negotiations that it would
maintain, for the entire duration of the project, the PMU with appropriate
staff and resources, and would fully support other state agencies participating
in the project.
Operating Agreements and Procedures
6.10      Since the overall project covers a wide number of related activi-
ties, and the timing and scope of some will undoubtedly require adjustment
as experience is gained, a certain amount of flexibility in project execution
would need to be maintained. For this reason, and to help assure continued
timely budgetary support, each participating agency would prepare jointly
with the PMU an annual plan detailing the activities and expected expenditures
under the project for the next year. The yearly planning period would corres-
pond to POLONORDESTE's April 1 - March 31 fiscal year. The integrated package
of annual plans, as reviewed and approved by the state POLONORDESTE Management
Council would be submitted to the regional and federal POLONORDESTE coordin-
ating groups as a basis for yearly budget allocations. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the annual plans -- which provide the critical
operational detail needed to implement and, as necessary, adjust the initially
defined longer term project actions -- would be submitted to the Bank by
November 30 each year for review and comment. Agreement was also reached
that the annual plans would receive the prompt review of the regional
POLONORDESTE coordinating group (so as to avoid delays in budget approvals)
and that the Bank would be advised of the approved plan by January 31 each
year.
6.11      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, the state would
enter into written agreements (convenios) with certain of the executing
agencies to specify their respective responsibilities under the project and



- 42 -
help assure timely project completion. Such agreements are normally utilized
in POLONORDESTE projects when: (i) the executing entity concerned is not
directly part of or responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture or the State
Government, the principal channels for POLONORDESTE funding other than credit;
(ii) the executing agency is largely autonomous; or (iii) special responsi-
bilities (e.g., counterpart funding, adoption of new procedures) need to be
spelled out. In the proposed project, convenios would be particularly useful
in assuring adequate participation of, and coordination among, the numerous
entities participating in the health, education, storage-marketing, mechani-
zation service and input supply components (all of which require special
counter-part actions by bodies such as local municipalities or other state of
federal institutions). Draft convenios required for the execution of these
components have been reviewed by Bank staff and found satisfactory. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the state that it would enter into
and maintain during the project execution period all such agreements as are
necessary to assure active cooperation of the various agencies participating
in the above-mentioned components. Receipt by the Bank of the respective
signed agreements would be a condition of disbursement for each of these
components.
Implementation Schedule
6.12      A chronogram of the main project activities is given in Annex 8.
Evaluation
6.13      Although directly or indirectly, all of the staff working on different
aspects of the project would need to be involved in evaluating project impact
and effectiveness, overall responsibility for project evaluation would lie
with an evaluation group separate from the rest of the PMU, but funded by the
project and located in the Secretariat of Agriculture (possibly within CEPA-BA).
It would be directly responsible to the Management Council and would carry out
on-going and post facto evaluation of the project. Staff of the evaluation
group would comprise two professionals (one of whom would be a social scientist)
and administrative support. The group would have an orientation toward the
sociological, as well as economic, aspects of rural development to help focus
evaluation on the intended key project beneficiaries.
6.14      On-going evaluation would complement the monitoring activities of
the PMU and would require close collaboration between the evaluation group and
the rest of the PHU in the planning of work programs and sharing of information
and ideas. It would involve a continuous advising of project management of
the extent and quality of project progress and a rapid isolating of present or
potential implementation difficulties. On-going evaluation "products" would
comprise reports of topic-specific evaluation studies (see below), evaluations
of PMU monitoring and farm survey results, and a major mid-project evaluation
report (during project year 3). On-going evaluation studies would be conducted
primarily by consultants on a study-by-study basis but consideration would be
given to the possibility of the long-term involvement of a Brazilian university
graduate program in evaluation studies. Studies would be qualitative as much
as quantitative, covering topics suggested by the evaluation group, project



- 43 -
management, executing agencies, the Management Council, POLONORDESTE officials
or the Bank. The studies would provide an independent examination of possible
difficulties in project implementation and would be a source of suggestions
for remedial action, adaptation or expansion. They would focus on the quality
of project interventions, and the extent to which project objectives are
achieved and to which the various segments of the target population are
benefitted. Specific evaluation studies could include:
(a) evaluations of the effectiveness of particular executing agencies
or development strategies (e.g., credit delivery, land titling,
off-farm storage and marketing activities, use of informal produ-
cer groups as extension "contact groups", participation of small-
scale farmers in cooperatives) and the productivity and income
changes resulting from the project;
(b) participant evaluation of project activities -- comparisons of
the expectations of participants (beneficiaries and executing
agencies) to actual project intentions and attainments; and
(c) intensive sociological studies of a small number of participant
and non-participant communities, to serve as a counterpart to the
farm survey in establishing a data base for project evaluation.
The evaluation group would contract a consultant, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in establishing the project evaluation
strategy and work program. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the detailed evaluation plans would be provided to the Bank by December 31,
1978 for comment.
6.15      The evaluation group would also prepare a post facto project evalua-
tion report to serve partly as a project completion report. It is expected
that both the on-going and post facto evaluation would provide the state with
an important input in the formulation of future rural development projects.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the project completion and post
facto evaluation report would be provided to the Bank within six months of
project completion and that the report would include information on the
execution and initial operation of the project, including costs and estimates
of the effects and impact of the project, as well as information on the
performance of all involved parties.
VII. PROJECT PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING
Production
7.01      By full development (about year 8), there would be substantial
increases in crop production among project participants deriving from: a
moderate expansion in the area cropped (a 58% increase, to around 60,000 ha,
including some 32,000 ha interplanted); the introduction of improved manage-
ment, technology and inputs; and off-farm investments, particularly in roads,



- 44 -
storage facilities, agricultural extension and research and seed production
services. At estimated 1977 farm-gate prices (taken as 1974-76 average
farm-gate prices in constant terms), incremental annual production is expected
at full development to amount to about Cr$491.1 million, or US$32.7 million
equivalent. Value of production per hectare is estimated to increase about
75% to Cr$7,290 (US$486 equivalent) at full development.
7.02      Approximately 45% of incremental production (by value) would come
from beans, 11% from manioc, 8% from citrus, 9% from miscellaneous other
fruit, 11% from maize and 10% from string and leaf tobacco. The relative
importance of the different crops to project participants would change with
project production. In addition to the small-scale introduction of peanuts
and soy beans, the production of citrus and other sub-tropical fruits would be
considerably augmented. Manioc would remain a key crop, but would account for
under one-half its pre-project share of participant production. Maize,
garlic, tobacco leaf and castor beans would decline, while beans, fruit and
tomatoes would increase in importance. Because of the "demonstration effect"
of project extension activities and infrastructural development, production
increases are also probable from many other farms in the project area. The
degree of such increased production is not easily predictable.
7.03      Production of the estimated 675 livestock beneficiaries would
increase through improved management and production technology. Incremental
meat production is expected to amount to around 800 tons annually at a value
of about Cr$9.6 million (US$0.64 million equivalent). Estimated incremental
milk production (about 2.88 million liters) would have a value of around
Cr$5.8 million (US$0.39 million) annually.
Demand, Markets and Prices
7.04      Potential project participants account for a small share of current
(1977, estimated) state production, although project activities could raise
their contribution significantly. The Paraguacu Basin could become an important
source in Bahia of beans, garlic and onions, and possibly also of maize and
tomatoes. Without project and incremental production of potential participants
as a percentage of estimated 1977 state production is as follows:



- 45 -
Potential Participant Prod. as %
Estimated 1977                      Bahia Prod.
Crop                Bahia production 1/    Without Project             Incremental
('000 tons)
Manioc (root)         5,547.0                      1.8                       2.4
Beans                   140.0                      5.4                      20.6
Maize                   265.0                      3.1                      12.9
Rice                     38.5                      0.3                       2.9
Tomatoes                 42.4                      1.3                       8.2
Onions                   10.0                      2.8                      14.2
Garlic                    1.4                     11.9                      36.5
Castor beans            154.0                      1.3                      1.8
Tobacco (leaf)           34.0                      4.7                       6.5
Participant production of milk and meat at full project development would
amount to little more than 1% of current Bahian production of each.
7.05      While project activities could increase significantly the produc-
tion of target crops, population and urbanization trends, available data
on income elasticities of demand in potential market areas and on production
trends in other potentially competitive production areas, suggest that project
production could face demand constraints or price reductions to the farmer
(see also para 7.06), were it not for planned project investments in access
roads and improvements in market services. Chief markets for participant food
production will be the population of the project area and the adjacent greater
Salvador area. Project area population is projected to be 1.4 million and 43%
urban by 1990, compared to slightly more than 1.0 million and 35% urban
presently. Through 1990, Salvador is expected to expand 4.5% annually from a
current population of 1.4 million, so continuing to have a population greater
than the entire project area. For demand calculations it was assumed that the
commercial trade of food products would first be towards cities in the project
area with over 5,000 inhabitants and that any balance would go to the Salvador
market. Upon these assumptions, maize and rice production is unlikely to
leave the project area. Manioc (marketed only as flour) 2/, fruits, onions,
garlic and tomatoes will find ready markets in the project area and the balance
1/   Data are not available on current state production of string tobacco,
fruit, soy beans and peanuts. Estimated state production data,
particularly of minor crops (rice, tomatoes, onions, garlic, tobacco),
are very approximate.
2/   For some time, there have been discussions in Bahia (as elsewhere in
Brazil) about the possibility of developing an industrial capacity to
process alcohol from manioc with the intention of using the alcohol as a
gasoline additive. Proposals made so far appear to have doubtful or
marginal economic viability. If viable plans were developed in the
future, the market for project area manioc may be considerably better
than now assumed.



- 46 -
in Salvador. No marketing difficulties are foreseen for participants' indus-
trial crops. String tobacco will be marketed to the existing specialized
markets in Bahia, Minas Gerais, Goias and Mato Grosso; leaf tobacco will
continue to be sold to national manufacturers and to overseas markets. The
slight incremental producttion of castor beans will be marketed through
existing processing channels. Meat production will find a strong demand,
chiefly in Salvador, and milk production will find a ready market at the chief
dairies of the region (in Salvador and Feira de Santana).
7.06      It is difficult to estimate changes in the prices of agricultural
and livestock products that might result from project activities. As incre-
mental production of most crops is slight compared to state production, pro-
ject production is unlikely to have a negative influence on prices. Other
factors would affect prices, however. The greater utilization of storage by
producers might help decrease marginally local seasonal price variations,
although it would also allow producers to take advantage of whatever variation
remained. Regional differences in prices within the project area should
decrease with project road activities and consequent developments in transport,
just as greater regional connectivity in Brazil would contribute to bringing
Bahia prices more in line with national prices (which are, in most cases,
somewhat lower). In sum, improvements in local and regional connectivity will
result in two opposing forces that could affect project area prices: greater
connectivity within the project area could increase prices received by producers,
while improved national connectivity could result in prices at the state level
(and eventually within the project area) declining relative to national prices.
It has been assumed that in the medium term the prices for project area
agricultural and livestock products will decrease a little in relation to
prices received elsewhere in Brazil, but that the producer's share of the
final price will increase slightly as a result of more efficient and competi-
tive marketing and transportation systems and better farmer organization.
Marketing
7.07      No major changes in the present marketing system are foreseen for
the marketing of project production as it is believed that the marketing
system should be compatible with the volume and location of production,
farming systems and socioeconomic environment of project beneficiaries (see
para 7.09). However, during the project period, marketing options open to
producers are expected to expand with the state's efforts to promote minimum
price and advance-purchase marketing schemes (see para 7.10), the provision
of off-farm storage facilities, the planned strengthening of cooperative
societies and other developments in physical infrastructure (particularly
road construction and upgrading) under the project.
7.08      Marketing of agricultural production in the project area is now
characterized by minimal involvement of government or other large institu-
tions; producers must find their own markets. Part of food production is
consumed on-farm, some is kept for seed and planting stock, and the balance
is sold to consumers or intermediaries at local public wholesale/retail



41 
markets. in.uostr4`. ki;ct:   d meat are generally sold on-farm or in
market towns to agents of processors, and milk is collected by truckers
for transpo-<.  o-c          T_sere is practically no on-farm processing of
produce, as     fre from converting manioc root to flour.  There is limited post-
harvest stora c-t of_oduce .y small producers; however, hardly any use the few
public off-.iarm s     e facili ties in the region.  Producers generally receive
50-60% of the s- ales cpnne on less perishable items (rice, beans and
maize) and 30O407 cnc r4ore perishable products.  Milk producers receive 70-75%
of the retail t rie -ca.   9etcii  margins are about double wholesale margins.
7.09      Majo.-:c  anges 1a the marketing system are not advocated at this
time for five cihief reasons: (i) many target participating communities are
isolated and distart fErom significant markets; (ii) the existing marketing
system is not necessari-;y Inefficient given the isolation of some partici-
pating cotecitie 3 te atomized nature and small-scale of production, and
the extra-market-ing functions (credit and input supply, for instance) pre-
sently perforocd by        intermediaries; (iii) demand co-astraints for project
productiorn are nolt foreseen (iv) there does not exist an adequate adminis-
trative structure  r   which a more comprehensive marketing system could be
readily devel-cas  a-dA  tv  it is not yet certain at what rate participant
producers.            to s.eeU- cut new off-farm storage/marketing facilities as
a result of te      `.naging szales and modes of production.
7.10      Whi e ex st4n  marketing arrangements should be able to handle
incremental prouc.ution, two project-related innovations could broaden market-
ing opticns.  ',ne is che planned testing of an advance purchase scheme in part
of the project- a-ea by the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL).  The scheme would
provide a guar2nteed p.a-harvest market for maize, beans, and, possibly, rice
at least at the officia-11Y quoted (but, to date, rarely available) minimum
price. 1/  Tlhe second innovation would be the implementatLon of the Production
Financing Commission's (CP) minimum price loan/purchase option.  This would
require the implementat'on of existing regulations by CFP and its agent, BB --
and producers being Better organized and made aware of, and encouraged to use,
the option  -   ts   th,an the creation of new regulat-ions.  The project itself
will not finance the operation of these schemes, but to ensure the necessary
storage infrastructure is avaLlable, the project would inelude the construction
of six 700-> ca        y waretous's (see para 4.35) which COBAL and CFP/BB
would use to sr ' pcduce puLrclased under the schemes, and which would also
be open to producers, cooperatives and merchants to store crops and inputs.
It is felt th.a  t1as provision of these warehouses and the concomitant imple-
mentation Of the mi-cinum price and advance purchase schemes could result in
significant lorg  erm beneficial changes in produce marketing in the project
area. In additio-n' as the institutional base of cooperative societies in the
project area is atrranthened, it is possible that some could become i-nvolved
in the marketing OL their members' produce on a crop-by-crop basis, as is
already done for sisal and milk by two societies.
/1   Ccrrc>t{              cc i s~ 9.L1rchased under the minimum price option
in '.a nc .



- 48 -
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
On-Farm Operations
8.01      It is estimated that the financial rates of return to the 17,000
farmers participating in the project will range from 12% to over 50%. The
estimates are based on analyses of 20 illustrative farm types, including
rain-fed crop farming on three different farm sizes and cropping patterns
for each of the five project sub-areas; irrigated crop farming on three
farm types; and livestock production on two farm types (see Annex 9). The
details of the farm operating results and cash flows of three representative
examples of the rain-fed farm models, one of the irrigation models and one
of the livestock models are also provided in Annex 9. These include examples
that indicate the expected cash flows for farmers who also purchase land under
the project land purchase credit component or for those who are part of a
small irrigation group paying for off-farm as well as on-farm irrigation
improvement.
8.02      Considered as costs in all the analyses are the on-farm investments
(e.g., land clearing, initial soil preparation, establishment of permanent
tree crops, purchase of small on-farm storage units and minor tools and equip-
ment) and the expected operating costs (including operating and maintenance
costs in the case of irrigation models) of the crop or livestock production
activities. Prices for inputs, hired (and family) labor and production sold
were assumed generally to be prevailing local market prices, except for soya,
the local price of which is expected to increase slightly. The summary of
expected financial rates of return are as follows:



- 49 -
Size of Farm
General Type of Fafrm GaeraLion            Up to      10 -       50 -     100 -
and Project Sub-Area                       10 ha      50 ha     100 ha   200 ha
A.   Rain-fed Agriculture
I.  Planal.wo ,ainly staple          14.3       13.4       17.2       -
food cross, tobacco and citrus)
II.  Cristalino do Sul (mainly
staple food crops, tobacco   > 50.0         46.7    > 50.0       -
and castor beans)
III. Chapada Diamantina (mainly
staple food crops, string        45.1    > 50.0    > 50.0        -
tobacco and castor beans)
IV.  Cristalino Centro (mainly    > 50.0         40.8    > 50.0        -
staple food crops, string
tobacco and castor beans)
V.  Feira de Santana (mainly
staple food crops,               11.8       11.9       17.9      -
tobacco and/or citrus)
B.   Irrigated Agriculture (mainly
in Sub-Area III)
(staple food crops,
vegetables and soya; up         28.0       19.8       20.8      -
to 3 ha irrigated)
C.    Livestock (Sub-Areas II and IV)
(combination breeding/dairy
or combiniationi breeding/        -           -      20.0    30.7
fattening)
Producer Income
8.03      As a result of the project, the estimated income from agricultural
or livestock activities could increase from a weighted average of roughly
US$665 equivalent per family before the project to about US$1,685 equivalent
at full development or within roughly eight years. Of the some 17,000 expected
participants, only a fraction (probably less than 10%) are estimated to have
incomes currently ab3ve the relative poverty level in Brazil (that is, about
US$380 per caDita or US$2,000 per family). The income estimates in para 8.04,
it should be noted, cover only the principal activity of the farm operation
(e.g., the cropping _ct-.!ivities in the smaller farms and the livestock activities



- 50 -
in some of the larger farms). Either supplementary livestock (in the case of
crop farms) or crops (in the case of livestock farms) could result in marginally
higher real incomes. In addition, the estimates represent averages by farm
type and size; obviously, some farmers in each type or size group will have
incomes above the average. Also, some of the smaller scale farmers, in
particular, are likely to have some additional income from share-cropping or
renting or laboring on other farms both before and after the project. Further-
more, the estimated income increases projected under the project could be
understated to the extent that the real debt service burden to the farmer
would be deflated since credit would not be indexed to offset inflation (para
4.16).
8.04      "Before project" and "full development" income levels (including the
assumed value of family labor and value of on-farm consumption) are summarized
as follows:
Estimated Income        Expected Participants
Before   At Full Project         of this Type
Project    Development      Number    % of Total
(US$ equivalent)
Rain-fed Agriculture
Sub-Area I, up to 10 ha            574        1,409           1,150         6.8
i'     , 10 to 50 ha           574        1,436              740        4.4
if     , 50-100 ha           2,145        3,607              110        0.6
Sub-Area II, up to 10 ha           421        1,580             495         2.9
"1      , 10-50 ha             585        1,593             970         5.7
if      , 50-100 ha          1,132        2,478             345         2.0
Sub-Area III, up to 10 ha          417        1,158           2,515        14.8
it       , 10-50 ha            881        2,193           1,605         9.4
it       , 50-100 ha           991        2,449             205         1.2
Sub-Area IV, up to 10 ha           478        1,508           1,320         7.8
10-50 ha             894        1,780           2,260        13.3
50-100 ha          1,412        3,091             315         1.9
Sub-Area V, up to 10 ha            385        1,019           2,120        12.5
if     ,10-50 ha               537        1,318           1,350         7.9
IV     ,50-100 ha            1,316        2,590              190        1.1
I;
Irrigated Agriculture
Up to 10 ha (up to 3 ha irrig.)  668          3,170             470         2.8
10   50 ha  (       "           )  940       2,519              140        0.8
50-100 ha   (       "          ) 1,155       2,958               25        0.1
Livestock
Breeding/Dairy (50-100 ha)       1,327        3,326             360         2.1
Breeding/Fattening (100-200 ha)  981          2,865             315         1.9
Weighted Average/Total                664        1,683          17,000       100



- 51 -
Overall, the relatively high financial rates of return to farmers producing
rain-fed crops reflects on the one hand, the rather low on-farm investment
requirements and on the other, the importance of improved production inputs
and practices and of critical off-farm investment in support infrastructure
and services in generating the production increases. The reasonably high
relative increases in income levels also reflect in part the very low initial
levels. It should be noted, of course, that the cases analysed are only
illustrative examples used to help approximate the impact of the project on
individual farmers and to help estimate project costs and returns.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND EMPLOYMENT
Economic Rate of Return
9.01      Various aspects of the project, such as improved health services,
water supply and education, and secure title to land would have significant
benefits which are not readily quantifiable (see para 9.06). An economic rate
of return on these parts of the project was not calculated. However, for the
other project components and taking into account direct and indirect production
benefits (para 9.03), the economic rate of return has been estimated at 15%.
The details of the cost and benefit streams are given in Annex 10. Other
details of the economic analysis are available in the Project File (Supple-
mentary Staff Working Paper No. 18, "Economic Analysist").
9.02      The cost stream included:  all on-farm investment and incremental
operating costs (based on the phased aggregate of the different types of
participants); the other project investment costs related directly to the
agricultural program; and a share of the continued operating costs (after
the five year project execution period) of certain project developed services
(e.g., extension, experimentation) which would be necessary to sustain the
projected development. Insofar as "off-farm" project investment costs are
concerned, the cost stream included 100% of the project costs (base-line plus
physical contingencies) for the experimentation/seed production, cooperative
society support, mechanization/input supply, irrigation technical assistance,
studies and works, off-farm storage and feeder road components; 90% of the
extension service costs (at least 10% of the extension costs being directly or
indirectly related to social extension, health, education and community
development activities for which benefits are not easily quantifiable); 70% of
overall project costs for administration and monitoring (at least 30% of these
costs being related to project social development activities); and 50% of the
costs of the evaluation and multi-purpose dam components (in the case of the
former only 50% because evaluation would cover both production and social
components and many of the lessons learned would benefit mainly subsequent
projects and, in the case of the latter, because at least half of the costs of
the dams should be associated with improved water supply and the derived
health benefits). Overall about 76% of total project costs were included in
the cost stream.



- 52 -
9.03      It should be noted that some of the project investments will have
significant benefits not measured by the incremental production of the 17,000
direct project participants. For example, the extension and research activi-
ties are certain to have demonstration effects on other farmers in the project
area, particularly since the direct participants represent less than a quarter
of the total farmers in the project area and are located in over 150 scattered
communities, thereby multiplying the chances of diffusion of successful new
production techniques. Project support of cooperatives and of improved
mechanization and input supply services and of storage facilities could also
be expected to have benefits beyond those accruing to the direct project
participants. Project roads can be expected to benefit not only other farmers
but also other economic activity in the area, and lead to better community
access to improved social services. The impact of the roads on production is
of several types. The roads will help improve the penetration of extension
services, the farmers' access to credit and production inputs, and hence the
likelihood of adoption of improved farming techniques. Perhaps more important,
the roads will also assure improved access to markets. In fact, although the
market potential exists within the project area for absorbing project produc-
tion, an effort to increase production under the project without improved
roads would almost certainly result in an average farmgate price decrease
which, though difficult to quantify accurately, reflects in part the high
transport costs which would exist without road improvements as well as likely
losses from spoilage or simple inability to get all of the production to the
market.
9.04      An explicit effort was made in the rate of return analysis to reflect
these various circumstances. First, the benefit stream included: (i) all of
the incremental crop and livestock production of the project participants, these
production estimates derived from the aggregate of the phased incorporation
into the project over five years of the various participant farm families,
and the phased increase in production by the different types of participants;
as well as (ii) an assumed incremental production derived indirectly from
demonstration effects and use of the project-improved services and infrast-
ructure by farmers other than the "direct participants", this indirect benefit
conservatively estimated as beginning only during the third year of project
execution and being equivalent to about a 3% increase annually accumulating
for a total of 5 years but stabilizing thereafter. Hence, by year 8 and from
year 8 onward, it was assumed that the indirect production benefits would be
equivalent to roughly 15% of that of the 17,000 direct participants (e.g.,
equivalent to another 2,500-3,000 full participants). Secondly, the prices
used in the economic analysis were based on projected farmgate prices set to
reflect, among other things, the impact of project transport investments.
These projected farmgate prices were compared to border prices (discounted to
take into account transport, handling and insurance costs) and were adjusted
only in the case of soya and fertilizer (for which discounted projected border
prices were higher and lower, respectively, than projected farmgate prices).
In the case of labor, since there appears to be rather considerable underemploy-
ment in the project area and particularly among beneficiary families, labor
was shadow priced at 50% of the average market wage. The foreign exchange
costs and benefits were adjusted upward by 30% to reflect trade-distorting



- 53 -
tariffs, subsidies, advance import deposits, export taxes and quantitative
restrictions. Of the products produced under the project, Brazil is a net
exporter to tobacco, maize, citrus and soya.
9.05      The estimated economic rate of return was found to be not especially
sensitive to changes in costs, benefits or lags in farmer participation. The
following are results of the sensitivity analysis:
Internal Economic
Rate of Return
Best Estimate                     15
Costs up 20%                      13
Benefits down 20%                 13
Delay of 1 year in farmer
participation                   14
An elimination of the lagged demonstration benefits (see para 9.04) from the
benefit stream wou'ld result in a rate of return of 13%. If, in addition to
eliminating the demonstration benefits, project costs (concentrated in the
first five years) were increased 20%, the rate of return would drop to 11%.
9.06      The benefits of the social infrastructure components which would
accrue to some 110,000 of the rural population living in the micro-regions
selected for project activities are very difficult to quantify. However, it
can be assumed that the training activities will play a significant part
not only in helping achieve the project production targets but also in improv-
ing the income prospects and social welfare of the area's population. With
respect to the improved health and sanitation services, it is apparent that
they too will not only contribute to social welfate but will also be highly
complementary to the directly productive investments of the project. Better
health would increase labor availability and productivity, improve learning
ability and avoid treatment costs. In addition, improvements in the health
services are perceived by rural communities as priority needs and thus afford
opportunities to organize the community through participation in their develop-
ment. This is turn is likely to facilitate acceptance of other components of
the rural development package. In addition, in both the training and health
components, emphasis on community participation and low-cost design (project
investments, including contingencies, averaging about US$350 per benefitting
family for education and training and about US$220 per benefitting family for
health and sanitation) should help allow replicability in other areas. The
benefits of the land titling services are also very difficult to quantify.
There will be obvious social benefits derived from the improved security
given to the small farmer. In addition, one could expect the farmer with
secure tenure to be more willing to invest in agricultural development and
to be in a position to e joy over the long term the full benefits of increased
productivity. The cost effectiveness of the component was carefully reviewed
and unit costs found to be reasonable in the local environment. The compo-
nent should have the added benefit of providing an important, replicable model
in Northeast Brazi  c:- state intervent-Lon in the protection of the small
farmers security of  eLaure.



- 54 -
Employment
9.07      The expected expansion of agricultural activities by the 17,000
participating farmers should increase family employment and improve subsistence
as weil as increase cash revenue from marketed production. Taking into account
the proposed development pattern, the project should generate increased agri-
cultural employment opportunities equivalent to some 9,200 worker-years
annually. Of this amount, more than 95% would be met by family labor.
Project Risks
9.08      The project's success will depend on the timely implementation of a
wide variety of investments and activities in various sectors by numerous
agencies. The risk of not achieving adequate coordination and active parti-
cipation should, however, be lessened by the arrangements already made by
the state to involve directly high level officials of the principal partici-
pating agencies in the state's POLONORDESTE Management Council and to estab-
lish a special Project Management Unit. Another type of risk lies in the
fact that the experience of the participating agencies (e.g., extension
services, banks) in carrying out large programs directed specifically and
intensively at small-scale farmers are relatively recent. Hence, it is
possible that, for example, the steps proposed to achieve greater extension
and credit coverage will prove to be inadequate or not fully appropriate. The
preparation and review of detailed annual work plans with each participating
agency and the carrying out of project monitoring and evaluation should help
resolve problems which might arise in this regard. Overall, the potential of
the project to benefit some 110,000 lower income people with its directly
productive components as well as improved health or education services, and
to strengthen the project execution capacity of institutions that serve
the rural poor, make the project risks acceptable.
Fiscal Impact
9.09      The costs of the project's agricultural investments and services
over the five-year implementation period (including contingencies) would
amount to about US$3,800 per direct beneficiary. The physical infrastructure
and social service investments would sum to an additional US$2,200 per direct
beneficiary family. These figures, however, overstate the cost to the extent
that the agricultural activities would generate important demonstration and
employment benefits to area residents outside the core agricultural target
group of 17,000 families, Clearly, infrastructure and social service invest-
metns would also greatly benefit the community at large. The bulk of the
pro.- - beneficiaries have incomes below the relative poverty level in Brazil
(currztly estimated at roughly US$380 per capita). Of the estimated US$69
mill,_-,- total (including contingencies) in "off-farm" project costs (i.e.,
thou  ather than on-farm investment, incremental farm working capital and
land purchase), it is expected that around US$29 million (about 42% will be
recovered through a combination of direct financial contributions by bene-
ficiaries (particularly in the health and sanitation component) during the
execution period, various direct and indirect user charges (e.g., storage
tariffs, road and gasoline taxes) and taxes on incremental production during



- 55 -
the project execution period. The extent to which on-farm project costs will
be recovered in real terms is, however, very difficult to estimate because of
the current inflationary environment in Brazil and the Government's policy to
provide unindexed agricultural credit. Assuming a gradually declining though
continuing moderate inflation, real recovery of on-farm project costs could
well be less than half. On the other hand, either a more rapid decline in
inflation or a continuation of the gradual reduction in the size of agricul-
tural credit subsidies (a process in which initial though still marginal steps
were recently taken by the Government, see para 1.06) would result in higher
real cost recovery. Although the increased production of the beneficiaries of
the project would probably enable them to bear the burden of positive real
interest rates for credit received, the Government has so far chosen, parti-
cularly in view of the relatively low incomes of the target beneficiaries for
programs such as POLONORDESTE, to maintain a considerable subsidy element in
the agricultural credit component.
9.10      Following the project disbursement period, the project investments
would give rise to additional recurrent costs to the Government on the order
of US$6.4 million per annum. These expenses would be incurred principally
for agricultural extension and experimentation, but would also include some
residual project administration costs as well as the continued operating
costs of the improved health system and the training and formal education
facilities. The additional recurrent expenditures are expected, however,
to be partly offset by additional revenues of roughly US$4.4 million annually
generated as a result of the ICM and FUNRURAL taxes which would apply to
incremental production from direct participants in the agricultural compo-
nents of the project. The costs of continuing other project related services
(e.g., water supply, mechanization), would be recovered by direct user charges.
Environmental Impact
9.11      As a result of the project, the area under cultivation in the
Paraguacu Basin by project participants (around 25% of project area farmers)
would increase moderately though about 30% of new lands placed into production
would be planted in permanent or tree crops. Land management would, in
general, be improved as a result of the intensified technical assistance and
encouragement of cultivation systems providing for erosion control. The
possible impact of the several isolated small-scale irrigation activities on
the occurance of schistosomiasis in the project area would be offset by the
Government's agreed development of a basin-wide endemic disease control program
(see para 4.43).
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Federal
Government that:



- 56 -
(a) project credit would be lent through Banco do Brasil and BNB
under POLONORDESTE terms and conditions and the Government would
advise the Bank promptly of any changes in those terms and that
project short-term credit funds would be available for reappli-
cation under the project credit component (para 4.17);
(b) by December 31, 1978, the Bank would be provided, for comment,
new Government guidelines allowing official land purchase credit
financing of smaller plots than previously allowed, and detailed
plans to assure efficient execution of the new guidelines in the
project area (para 4.22);
(c) consultants for assisting in the engineering design of feeder
roads, the health component and project administration and
evaluation would be contracted on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (paras 4.38, 4.43, 4.50, 6.05, 6.06 and
6.14);
(d) plans for minor irrigation schemes requiring total on-and
off-farm investment in excess of US$250,000 equivalent would
be provided to the Bank for approval prior to their inclusion
in the project (para 4.32);
(e) by December 31, 1978, the Bank would be provided, for approval,
the feasibility study report and plans for the 12 multi-purpose
dams (para 4.34);
(f) project feeder roads would be constructed according to agreed
design specifications (para 4.38);
(g) an endemic disease control program for the project area
would be prepared and presented to the Bank by December 31,
1978, for comment, and carried out thereafter (para 4.43);
(h) by December 31, 1978 the Bank would be provided, for comment,
the details of the rural health attendant training plans
(para 4.43); and the reports on the pre-investment, main-
tenance and organization studies for the water supply
component (para 4.46);
(i) water supply works would be carried out only in communities
satisfying specified selection criteria (para 4.46);
(j) by December 31, 1978, a satisfactory draft of the new rural
primary education curriculum would be completed and provided
to the Bank; by June 30, 1979, the results of the training
and manpower surveys would be provided to the Bank for comment;
and by November 30 each year, the detailed site plan for
project schools to be constructed the following year would be
provided to the Bank for approval (paras 4.48-4.49);



- 57 -
(k) it would provide adequate funding to assure timely and effective
execution of the project and adequate operation and maintenance
of the facilities and services developed under the project
(para 5.03);
(1) it would provide the Bank with appropriate periodic audit
statements (para 5.07);
(m)  it would provide the Bank, for review and comment, the details
of monitoring/data analysis and farm survey plans prior to
their implementation (paras 6.05 and 6.06);
(n) by November 30 each year, it would provide the Bank for review
and comment the project work program for the following year and
would assure timely review of the plan by the regional POLONORDESTE
group (para 6.10);
(p) it would provide the Bank quarterly project progress reports and
a project completion report (paras 6.05 and 6.15); and
(p) it would provide the Bank with the detailed project evaluation
work program by December 31, 1978 (para 6.14).
10.03     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the state of
Bahia that:
(a) it would cause CAMAB to develop mechanization and input supply
services appropriate to the needs of the participating small
farmers (para 4.29);
(b) it would cause CERB to maintain and supervise use of the
multi-purpose dams (para 4.34);
(c) prior to the construction of project feeder roads, it would
enter into agreements with the respective municipalities
defining maintenance responsibilities; by December 31, 1978
it would complete and provide to the Bank for comment, a
program to strengthen DERBA road maintenance capacity and by
March 31, 1982 it would complete construction of specified
collector roads complementary to the project (paras 4.39 and
4.40);
(d) it would give priority placement to project-trained education
supervisors; and prior to construction of the project primary
schools, it would enter into agreements with the respective
municipalities assuring priority placement of project-upgraded
teachers, appropriate salaries for upgraded teachers, and
funding for continued operation of the schools (para 4.49);
(e) it would acquire necessary land and rights-of-way for project
works (para 5.03);



- 58 -
(f) it would adequately maintain the project administration unit
and support the other state agencies participating in the
project (para 6.09); and
(g) it would enter into and maintain all such special agreements
as are necessary to assure full and active cooperation of
the various agencies participating in the storage/marketing,
mechanization/input supply, health and education components
(para 6.11).
10.04     A condition of disbursement for the land titling component would
be the establishment of two new cadastral review units at INTERBA agencies in
the project area (para 4.24); for the minor irrigation schemes, the prepara-
tion of a satisfactory sub-project selection and evaluation manual (para 4.32);
for the health component, the completion of supplementary staffing at the
project area regional health departments (para 4.43); and for rural primary
schools, the provision to the Bank of satisfactory evidence of the acquisition
of the respective sites (para 4.48). A condition of disbursement for the
health, education, mechanization and storage/marketing components would be the
provision to the Bank of the agreements between the state and agencies partic-
ipating in the respective component (para 6.11).
10.05     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for the Bank loan of US$37 million equivalent with a term of
15 years, including a 3 year grace period.



ANNF3 1
NORTFAR'T BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Design Standards for Feeder Roads
CLASS                                  A                  B                C
Approximate traffic levels                 Over 40 v.p.d.      20-40 v.p.d.   Up to 20 v.p.d.
1/                                                       2/               2/
Formation width-/                              6.00 m             4.50 Tm-         4.50 m-
3/
Maximum gradient-                             12% (14%)          12% (14%)         12% (14%)
Desirable maximum gradient length               300 m              300 m             300 m
Cross-slope and maximum super-elevation          5%                 5%                5%
Gravel thickness                               0.15 m             0.10 m            None
Minimum curve radius                         50 m (30 m)        30 m (25 m)         None
Minimum site stopping distance               70 m (50 m)            40 m            40 m
Minimum culvert diameter                       0.80 m             0.80 m           0.80 m
Bridge characteristics                       Double lane        Single lane      Single lane
Bridge design loading                         Class 36             Class 36         Class 36
1/ Net of widening in curves,and gutters.
2/ Passing bays are to be provided where needed.
3/ Figures in brackets indicate absolute limits which may be used in exceptional
cases. For grades steeper than 8% special attention shall be given to drainage
and surfacing.
Source: Bahia Secretariat of Transport and Communications and Mission
February 1978



ANNEX 2
NORTWFA.ST WRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
List of Collector Roads Planned Parallel to Project
ROAD                           DESCRIPTION                              LENGTH
1  BA026        Nova Itarana-Planaltino                                       55.0
2  BA120        Ipecaeta-Cavunge-BA052                                        18.0
3  BA120        Riachao do Jacuipe-Serra Preta                                45.0
4  BA142        Andarai-Mucuge-Cascavel-Ibicoara-Barra da Estiva             110.0
5  BA148        Boninal-Piata-Abaira-Caraguatai                               97.0
6  BA245        Boninal-Mucuge                                                70.0
7  BA245        Andarai-Itaete                                                50.0
8  BA410        ichu-Candeal-Tanquinho                                        32.0
9  BA415        Ipira-BR407                                                   85.0
10  BA424        Tapiramuta-Volta Grande                                       12.0
11  BA484        Laiedinho-BR242                                               11.0
12  BR407        Ibiquera-Iguape                                               32.0
13  BR407        BA245 -Iramaia                                                35.0
14  BR407        Iramaia-Novo Acre-Triunfo do Sincora                          50.0
T O T A L                                     702.0
Source: Bahia Secretariat of Transport and Communications and Mission
February 1978



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT - PARAGUACU
Annual Phasing of Project Costs
(US$ '000)
1/                                                           ~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~Baseline  Foreign
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5          Total          costs(%)      Exchange(%
Credit
Investment Credit:
Agriculture                               444.0        1,829.1         2,578.1        3,244.1        3,493.2         11,588.5           14.5          10.0
Irrigation (On-Farm)                       -              -               80.0          266.7          336.2            682.9           0.8           20.0
Irrigation (Off-Farm)                      -              -              186.7          56f0iOO        664.6          1,411.3            1.8          25.0
Livestock                                 613.7          887.6           981.1          759.6           -             3,242.0           4.1           10.0
Incremental Working
Capital Credit                            691.2        1,067.7         1,869.2        2,313.5        3,084.1          9,025.7          11.4           15.0
Land Purchase Credit                         146.7           236.0          385.3          493.3           589.3         1,850.6            2.3           0.0
Production Support
Agricultural Services:
Extension                               1,539.0        1,752.3        1,992.5         2,498.3        2,995.8         10,777.9           13.6          11.8
Experimentation and Seed
Production                               672.6          456.9           492.2          490.7          481.3          2,593.7           3.2           10.8
Cooperative Society Support               161.1          121.5           111.0          110.8           90.1            594.5           0.7           10.2
Mechanization/Input Supply                 75.9            -              -               -               -              75.9           0.1           28.3
Land Titling and Surveying              1,080.1        1,107.9        1,073.2         1,073.2        1,073.2          5,407.6            6.8          10.7
Irrigation Technical Assistance/
Studies                                 -              269.0          200.0            53.3           33.4            555.7           0.7           15.0
- Infrastructure:
Pilot Multi-Purpose Dams                   56.0           40.0           440.0          444.8          448.0          1,428.8            1.8          28.1
Off-Farm Storage                          363.1            -              -               -               -             363.1            0.4          20.4
Feeder Roads                              280.0        3,017.4        7,102.4         6,599.1             -          16,998.9           21.4          31.8
Social Infrastructure
Health and Village Water Supply           878.1          840.8           956.3          603.9          556.2          3,835.3            4.8          18.3
Education and Vocational Training         701.8        1,471.9         1,415.4        1,251.8          688.9          5,529.8            6.9          15.6
Project Administration
Project Management/Monitoring             699,1           636.4          607,1          572.1           571.9         3,086.6            3.9          10.1
Project Evaluation                         95.1          128.2           129.0          128.9           129.0           610.2            0.8          10.1
TOTAL BASELINE COST -                      8,497.5        13,862.7       20.599.5       21,464.1        15,235.2        79,659.0          100.0           16.4
Physical Contingencies -                      574.4          900.3        1,394.2         1,349.3          674.3         4,892.5            6.1           16.4
Price Contingencies                           686.9        2,276.4        5,223.1         7,389,0        6.496.9        22,072.3           27.7           16.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         9.78.          17,039.4       27,216.8       30,202.4        22.406.4       106.623.8          133.9
1/ Year 1 of the project, for purposes of these cost estimates, corresponds to the full 1978 fiscal year of POLONORDESTE (April 1, 1978 through
March 31, 1979), with each subsequent project year corresponding to the respective POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
2/ In prices at the time of appraisal (October 1977) converted to US$ at the rate of Cr$15.0=US$1.0.
3/ Physical contingencies of 7% were added to the extension, experimentation seed production, land titling, cooperative society support,
mechanization input supply and project administration components; 10% to the irrigation, multi-purpOse dam, rtecage, faeder road and
education components; and 15% to the health and sanitation components.
4/ Price contingencies were calculated in US$ terms as follows:  for civil works, 9% in calendar 1977, 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979 and
7% per year thereafter;  for equipment, 97, in 1977, 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% per year thereafter;  for other materials and
supplies, credit, salaries, etc., 8% in 1977 and 7% per yaar thereafter.



ANNEX 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Quarter   Disbursed During  Cumulative Amount
Bank Fiscal Year  Ending          Quarter            Disbursed         Balance of Loan
1979               Sept.30          0.0                 0.0                  37.0
Dec.31           0.0                0.0                   37.0
March 31         1.3                1.3                   35.7
June 30          0.9                2.2                   34.8
1980               Sept. 30         1.0                 3.2                  33.8
Dec. 31          1.1                4.3                   32.7
March 31         1.4                5.7                   31.3
June 30          1.6                7.3                   29.7
1981               Sept. 30         1.8                 9.1                  27.9
Dec. 31          1.9               11.0                   26.0
March 31         2.3               13.3                   23.7
June 30          2.7               16.0                   21.0
1982               Sept. 30         2.9                18.9                  18.1
Dec. 31          3.1               22.0                   15.0
March 31         2.8               24.8                   12.2
June 30          2.5               27.3                    9.7
1983               Sept. 30         2.1                29.4                   7.6
Dec. 31          2.1               31.5                    5.5
March 31         2.0               33.5                    3.5
June 30          1.9               35.4                    1.6
1984               Sept. 30         1.2                36.6                   0.4
Dec. 31          0.4               37.0                    0.0



ANNEX 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
List of Executing Agencies
COMPONENT                  EXECUTING AGENCY       CHIEF COLLABORATING AGENCIES
Agricultural Development
. Extension Services              EMATER-BA             SENAR
. Agricultural Research
and Seed Production          EPABA
. llechanization Services
and Input Supply             CAMAB
Production Support
. On-farm Development Credit     BB, BNB                EMATER-BA
. Land Purchase Credit           BB, BNB                INTERBA, DCOOP, EMATER-BA,
DESENVALE
. Land Survey-Titling Services   INTERBA
. Storage-Marketing              CASEB                  EMATER-BA, COBAL, CFP
. Cooperative Society Support    DCOOP                  EMATER-BA
Social Infrastructure
. Health                          SESAB, through        EMATER-BA, SUCAM, Municipalities
FUSEB
. Water Supply and Sanitation    CERB                   EMATER-BA, Municipalities
. Education and Training          SEC, SENAI, SENAC     Municipalities
Physical Infrastructure
. Roads                           CRIBA, DERBA          Municipalities
. Irrigation                      CERB                  EMATER-BA, INTERBA, BB, BNB
. Multi-purpose dams             CERB
Project Administration
. Management                     Project Management
Unit in CEPA-BA
. Evaluation                      Evaluation Group
Note: A glossary of abbreviations and acronyms is provided inside the front cover
of this report.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Organization Chart of Project (PIDERP) Management Unit
Secretariat of Agriculture |-   State POLONORDESTE|
UMiR&QK*Ut Council
C-EPA-BAl
|Executive Coordinator 
PIDERP-PMU
Evaluation Group  __                    Executive Coordinator
Administrative                           Regional
Services                               Offices
r  Monitoring-    l                                              |   Operations
Planning_
Coordinator                                                          Coordinator
Monitoring         Long-term Plannin       Agricultural            Production              Social                 Physical
& Special Studies      Development            Support             Infrastructure         Infrastructure
Ext. services       On-farm devel.           Education &          Irrigation works
Agri. research        credit                   training           Roads
& seed prod.        Land purchase           Health
Mechanization         credit                                      Multi-purpose
services           Land survey./           Water supply           dams
Input supply         titling services         & sanitation
Storage-Marketing
Coop. support



ANNli 7
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
tndicatoss for Monitoring and Evaluation
Agricultural Development Components
Component                       Major Objectives                    Key Indicators
Mechanization Services              - Ensure input supplies               Inputs stocked and sold by
and Input Supply                      and mechanization ser-              outlets compared to annual
vices required for agri-            projected demand of area
cultural development                served by outlet
by project participants             Sample for each mechanization
are available as needed             unit of machine operation
- Establish and stock 18              hours by task, area, nature
self-financing retail               of beneficiary
input outlets                      Financial performance in
- Establish one mechaniza-            project area of CAMAB
tion unit                          Mechanization services
- Reallocate mechanization            rendered by each unit
equipment to serve better           related to projected annual
project area                        demand for services
- Provide self-financing
mechanization services
required by project par-
ticipants, viz: part of
field preparation for rain-
fed agriculture beneficiaries
on-farm development works and
some field preparation for
irrigation beneficiaries; and,
construction of small earthen
dams or earthen reservoirs
for livestock beneficiaries
Agricultural Research               - Improve productivity of           - Agricultural and livestock
and Seed Production                   project area crop and               experiments conducted at
livestock activities               each research station,
and improve pastures                and their results
- Introduce, test and               - Experiments and demonstra-
adapt new and improved              tions conducted at each
crops and agrotechnologies         observation site, and
- Establish a mechanism               their results
for continued agriculture        - Number of farmers visiting
research development and           observation sites
adaptation                       - Improved seed produced
- Produce and organize                and sold; receipts from
production of improved              sales
seeds
- With the assistance of
EMATER-BA, demonstrate
and diffuse research results
Extension Activities               - Expansion and re-orientation        Establishment and staffing
of extension services              of project area regional
to better serve small-             and local EMATER-BA
scale farmer participants          offices
- Reorientation of extension    - For field agricultural and
services at farm level and         livestock extension agents:
adoption of a "contact             days in field, in office,
farmer" approach                   in training and in other
- Upgrading of extension              activities
service personnel                - For field agricultural and
through pre- and in-               livestock extension agents:
service training                   number of visits to contact
- Development within                 farmers and number of
EMATER-BA of semi-                 farmers attending
specialized extension              For credit agents: number
services for field                 of farmers contacted,
axtensioa (agri-                   ouber of credit plans
culture and livestock),            designed and into operation,
credit ascistance,                 number of credit plans
cooperative society                supervised
assistance sod                     For cooperative society
social service                     extension agents: number of
activities                         days in coop. soc. and days
in field; number of farmers
and groups of farmers
visited
- For social extension agents:
number of families contacted,
number of days in field
and number of days by
activity (community
organization, home economics,
social work, health,
nutrition, education and
family gardens)
- Extension service personnel
pre- and in-service training
programs: number, duration
and type of programs,
number of students
-Training activities for
contact farmers: courses
offered and their duration;
number of farmers
attending



ANNEX 7
Page 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Production Support Components
Component                          Major Objectives                    Key Indicators
Storage-marketing                 - Provide off-farm  storage       - Warehouses constructed and
facilities for use by             in operation
producers, input  suppliers,  - Products and inputs stored
CFP, COBAL, and others            (type, volume, period), and
- Construct and operate sim         revenue from storage
700 ton warehouses                operations
- Users of warehouses:
producers, CFP, CObAL, coop-
erative societies, CAMAB,
others
- CFP minimum price (AGF/EGF)
activities by area, crop and
type and scale of producer
- COBAL advance purchase (CAP-
compra anticipada) activity
by area, crop, and type and
scale of producer
Land Survey and
Titling Services                  - Survey and grant titles          - Surveys commenced and
for land of 15,000 small-         completed by regional office
scale producers                 - Titling procedures
- Establish and staff 2             commenced, completed
INTERBA regional offices        - Time taken for titling
procedures
Land Purchase Credit              - Increase small-scale or non-  - BB and BNB land purchase
land owning farmers' long-        credit activity:  number and
term income potential and         value of loans by borrower's
propensity to pursue on-farm    land sime and form of holding
investment and development        (sharecropper, etc.)
possibilities by improving    - Amount, prices and location
security of land tenure           of land purchased
- Group and cooperative society
- Make land purchase credit         credit participation
available to 820   share-       - Time taken to process loans
croppers, tenants or very       - Debt  service performance
small-scale owners (approx.
half through group or coop-
erative society purchase)
Cooperative Society               - Strengthen DCOOP and other    - Staff and financial resources
Support                        agencies to provide a viable    of individual societies,
cooperative society support       DCOOP, EMATER-BA, and other
serv;ica                          coop. servicing institutions
- Develop useag*rial, admliis-  - Active membership of cooperatdv
trative ad financial re-          societies by scale of producer
sources of cooperative          - Financial situation of coop-
societies, including by           erative societies
seconding personnel             - Support services received by
- Establish a small farmer and    cooperative societies
rural development orientation   from DCOOP
among some cooperatives (in-  - New members of societies,
cluding by establishing           by type and scale of agri-
new societies)                    cultural activity
- Volume inputs sold, out-
puts marketed and credit
handled by cooperative societies
- Training courses held and
number and type of participants
On-farm Development               - Expand significantly small    - Amount lent to agricultural
Credit                         farmer use of institution-        and livestock beneficiaries
alized credit system, so          by bank agency, crop (or
facilitating adoption of          cattle), scale of operation
improved farming techniques,    and purpose of loan
diversification of production - Womber of borrowers (new vs.
and expansion of area culti-    repeater borrowers), by size
vated                             and purpose of loan by bank
- Make the institutional credit   agency
system more responsive to       - Debt service performance by
small farmers' credit re-         scale and type of borrower and
quirements                        bank agency
- Make available agricultural   - Time taken and costs to process
investment and/or seasonal        loan applications(for farmer
production credit to about        and bank)
16,325 farmers with less        - Success rate of loan
than 100 ha and livestock         applications
investment credit to 675        -bredit channelled via
producers witb  1s, tham          cooperative societies
200  a.                         I- Changes in lending procedures
- seppot 1z,moUm  ea.p. t    beneficial to small-scale
for SQ0 bomeficiaries re-         farmers (use of mobile credit
q, !s,g crerit for on-farm        units and tmporary personnel,
and/or off-farm  irrigation       elimination of deposit
works                             requirements, etc.)



ANNEX 7
Page 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELCPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
IndicatoEs for Monitoring and Evaluation
Phvsical Infrastructure Components
Components                       Major Objectives                  Xey Indicators
Irrigation                             - Rehabilitate and estab-       -Number and area of
lish new "traditional"          schemes rehabilitated
irrigation schemes and          or established
provide technical assis-        Number of participants
tance for irrigation           by scheme
- Rehabilitate schemes          - Crop area, patterns and
(400 ha)                       production on irrigated
- Establish new schemes using   land
borehole water, water from
permanent rivers and multi-
purpose small dams(l,100 ha)
- Develop preparation and
appraisal criteria for fi-
nancing small irrigation
schemes
Multi-purpose small dams                - Conduct feasibility             Feasibility studies
studies and if study            conducted
findings acceptable,           Dams constructed
construct 12 multi-             Establishment of
purpose dams (12,000            dam uses
m3 earth ill dams,
250,000 mi capacity)
for commmnity water
supply and small-scale
irrigation
Roads                                   - Design, upgrade and             Rc.d le%n-T. designed,
construct roads to              upgraded or constructed
improve access within           by CRTRA road-type
pro jAett. qrp., ino.lipinp     Maintenance apreements
establisbment of all-           signed
weather transport between       BNDE financing received
participant producer            and roads financed and
communities and regional        built
market-storage centers          Maintenance expenditures
- Construct or upgrade            Sample traffic counts
approx. 400 km earth
roads to CRIBA grade I
(earth) standard, approx.
520 km to grade II (gravel)
and approx. 220 km to grade
III (gravel)
- Enter into maintenance agree
ments with municipalities
- Complete road maintenance
study
- Prepare and present seconda
and feeder road project to
BNDE/DNER for financing



ANNEX 7
Page 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Indicatoos for Monitoring and Evaluation
Social Infrastructure Components
Component                  Major Objectives                      Key Indicators
Education and training            - Develop and improve            - Number schools constructed,
formal and non-formal            etc., and into operation
educational infrastructure   - Introduction of new primary
(to reach 34,000 primary         school curriculum and dis-
school children and 3,000        tribution of textbooks
youth and adults) and to       - Number and type of teacher
improve education super-         training/upgrading programs
vision with permanent            held and number of
teacher upgrading                participants
Construct, furnish and         - Number and type of occupa-
equip 100 primary schools        tional training courses
-Develop and introduce a           held and number of
new primary school               participants
curriculum                     - Employment of occupational
-Assist SEC organize and           trainees
execute teacher and super-   - Enrollment at project-
visor upgrading system           constructed schools
-Develop and execute occu-    - Studies conducted
pational training for 3,000
youth and adults
-Support SEC's non-formal
education initiatives
-Undertake studies of
socioeconomic character
of population and manpower
trends
-Strengthen component execu-
tion capacity of SEC
Health                            - Develop a low-cost             - Number of health posts/
integrated rural health          centers constructed/equipped/
delivery system for approx.    upgraded
130,000 beneficiaries at       - Patient numbers at health
full development with focus    posts/centers
on maternal and child          - Maintenance service
groups and rural workers         activities
-Construct and equip 50          - Training and refresher
village health posts             courses held and numbers
-Construct 10, equip 7 and         of participants
upgrade/equip 16 health        - Disease and illness cases
centers                          registered
-Develop a building and          - Progress in endemic disease
equipment maintenance            control programs (to be
service for health              established)
centers                        - Community health associa-
-Train 184 health atten-           tions formed and their
dants/supervisors, nursing       activities (including
attendants, mid-wives, and       support of health services),
laboratory assistants           and the integration of
-Pmn annual refresher courses   women into these activities
for health center personnel
-Develop programs for endemic
disease control (especially
malaria and schistosomiasis)
Water supply and sanitation       - Improve water supply sys-    - Pre-investeent feasibility
tems and sanitation facili-    studies conducted
ties for approx. 35,000       -Water supply systems con-
people in villages in            structed and operating
the project area              - Water supply auxiliaries
-Conduct pre-investment            trained and hired
studies of feasibility        - Number, location and acti-
of particular water supply      vities of CERB maintenance
systems                          system
-Construct and make function  - Activities of community healtl
70 water supply systems         associations and support of
-Supply maintenance equipment  water supply systems;
and parts for CERB water         share of operating costs
supply system maintenance       covered by community
service                          contributions
-Train 70 water supply
auxiliaries (operators)
-Have community support and
fund through community health
associations, water supply
auxiliaries and operating
costs of water supply systems



ANNEX 7
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                         Page 5
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PARAGUACU
Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Administration Components
Component                             Major Objectives                     Key Indicators
Management                        - Establish a Project             - Staffing of PMU headquarters
Mangement Unit (PMU)              and regional offices, and
to manage and monitor             assigned tasks/responsi-
project implementation,           bilities
including to undertake          - Nature of activities and days
long-term planning and            in field of each staff
special studies as re-            member
quired                          - Special studies in progress&
- Help resolve project executin   completed,and use made of
problems                          results
- Coordinate preparation of       - Implementation and analysis
annual work plans with exe-       of annual farm survey
cuting agencies.               - Quarterly and annual monitor-
ing reports
- Unresolved execution problems]
(e.g., poor executing agency
performance, funding delays)
Evaluation                        - Establish an on-going           - Staffing of evaluation
evaluation system to              group and staff
advise project management         activities (including days
of implementation progress        in field)
and potential problems,        - Studies in progress and
including by conducting           completed
special studies and            - Progress on mid-project
evaluating farm survey data       evaluation report
- Produce mid- and post-          - Recommendations made to
project evaluation                project management
reports



ANNEX 8
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Implementation Schedule
Project Yeat~
Component/Activity                                                    I                       IV            V
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Extension Activities
- office construction/equipment
- provision of extension services
- extension agent training
- farmer training
Agricultural Research and Seed Productinn
- upgrade research stations
- establish observation sites
- experimentation
- production of improved seed/
planning stock
Mechanization Services
- establish mechanization unit
- provision of mechanization services
PRODUCTION SUPPORT
On-farm Development Credit
- provision of investment and
seasonal credit
Land Purchase Credit
- provision of credit
Land Surveying and Titling Services
- establish 2 INTERBA offices
- upgrade/equip INTERBA offices
- cadastral review
- survey and grant titles
Storage - Marketing
warehouse construction
Cooperative Society Support
- servicing/strengthening coop.
societies
- training courses                                                                                     .
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Irrigation
- promotion
- studies
- construction on-farm works
- installation of farmers
Multi-purpose Programs
- feasibility studies
- design
- construction
- commence operation,
including irrigation
Roads
- engineering
- bidding
- construction                                       _                     .



ANNEX 8
Page 2
I            II         III          I''          V
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Health
- construct and equip mini-posts
- upgrade/construct health centers
- establish/operate maintenance
services
- training programs
- refresher courses
Water Supply and Sanitation
- pre-investment studies
- construct water systems I
- construct water systems 11
- construct water systems III                       . .                              _            __
- construct water systems IV
- maintenance service operation
- training programs
Education and Training
- school construction and equipping
- curriculum development and                               .
application
- teacher and supervisor upgrading                      _         _  _     _
- professional training
- studies
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Management
- reorganization of management unit
- supervision of implementation
- monitoring of implementation
- farm survey presentation, implementation
and analysis
- monitoring and planning studies
Evaluation
- evaluation studies
- mid-term evaluation
- post-project evaluation



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Technical Coefficients and Specifications and Illustrative Farm Models
Crop Development
1.        Rainfall, topography, soil quality and, hence, agricultural produc-
tion patterns and practices vary considerably within the project area. Even
within given sub-areas, yields for individual crops can differ widely depend-
ing on, among other things, the type of production inputs used and whether the
crop is produced in a pure stand or interplanted with another crop. Interplant-
ing is a common practice adopted mainly to reduce the risk of total production
loss in bad years and involves various combinations of two or three of the
crops grown in the project area, including castor beans, beans, manioc, maize
and tobacco. The widespread use of, and variety in, interplanting, together
with the fact that many of the small farm operations are "mixed" -- that is,
mainly cropping with a few cattle or small animals providing supplementary
income -- make it difficult to develop truly representative farm models.
Based on a pre-project field survey of some 575 farms in the project area,
18 simplified examples of crop farm types were prepared. These include
rain-fed agriculture on 3 different farm sizes (up to 10 ha; 10-50 ha; and
50-100 ha) in each of the 5 project sub-areas, as well as irrigated operations
on the 3 different farm sizes. Although the total farm sizes may differ, the
percentage of the total area actually cropped is usually quite small (10-20%)
on the larger farms, partly because of the poor quality of much of the land
and the limited market involvement of producers. While the relative and
absolute importance of different crops and crop consortia varies between
sub-areas and farm sizes, the different models can be broadly assigned
to three main groups: (i) farms growing staple food crops -- e.g., beans,
corn, manioc -- as well as some fruit such as citrus or passion fruit;
(ii) farms growing staple food crops and some industrial cash crops -- e.g.,
tobacco or castor beans; and (iii) farms developing irrigated production of,
for example, vegetables as well as staple food crops. The financial analysis
of the various farm types is described in paras 8.01 - 8.02 of the main text
of this report.
2.        The proposed agricultural development plan is aimed at raising the
net income of the target population through: an expansion of the area cropped
(from 38,000 ha to 60,000 ha over about 8 years); the development and intro-
duction of adapted, improved production technologies (use of selected seeds,
fertilizer and pesticides, soil conservation measures and crop rotation);
the strengthening of the extension/experimentation mechanism to develop
and disseminate improved production technology; the upgrading of other agri-
cultural services such as provision of inputs, marketing facilities, and
some mechanization services; and the provision of more secure land titles.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
In addition, efforts will be made through experimentation and monitoring to
improve gradually the selection of crop combinations and the production
techniques (including plant spacing, the timing of sowing and harvesting, as
well as selection of varieties and inputs) used for interplanted crops, since
some combinations appear to be more complementary (or to have less interference
between crops) than others. Also, since a wide variety of crops are currently
grown, a considerable flexibility will have to be retained regarding crop
recommendations.
3.        Recommendations on production techniques have been prepared for each
of the major crops and crop combinations produced in the different parts of
the project area, including mainly beans, manioc, maize, castor beans, tobacco
and various fruits and vegetables. Details of the production input and yield
assumptions for the various crops are available in the Project File in a
Supplementary Staff Working Paper (No. 14, Agricultural Development and
Technology) and a project preparation document, "Programacao Agricola e
Pecuaria." These assumptions are viewed as preliminary averages based on the
best available data from local farm surveys, experimentation results and
extensionists' observations of the practices of the more productive among
local farmers. During project implementation, the recommendations would be
improved and adapted to reflect results of the project's experimentation
program. In general, it was assumed that, during the first two years of
participation in the project with rainfed agriculture, the farmer would adopt
only very simple improved farm practices without intensive use of more expen-
sive inputs such as fertilizers. The planned changes are expected to prepare
the project participants for a more intensive agriculture. Typically from the
third year onwards, more sophisticated practices (including greater fertilizer
use and plant protection) would be implemented. Under irrigated agriculture,
it is expected that the level of existing local know-how and the relatively
more intensive planned preparation of project participants will make it
possible for an earlier introduction of improved agrotechnical practices,
including use of more sophisticated inputs. Thus, it has been assumed that
yields for irrigated agriculture would attain their potential average in a
shorter period.
4.           The expected phasing into the project of 16,325 crop producers of
different sizes in the 5 main project sub-areas and the rates of adoption by
these farmers of the improved production techniques were based on: an analysis
of the spatial distribution of farms of different sizes in the different
sub-areas; the fact that farmers with up to 50 ha would be the principal focus
of the project; and the assumptions that it was probably more realistic to
expect that coverage of non-landowners would be more difficult and less
complete than of small-scale owner-operators, and that the rate at incorpora-
ting farmers into the project was physically limited by the rate at which the
extension system could be expanded, extensionists trained, and the "contact
farm" methodology of field extension (see para 4.09 of the main text of this
report) gradually developed to full effectiveness. As to the projected
gradual increases in yields, the expected amount of improvement varies con-
siderably by crop. Examples, for several of the major crops, of assumed



ANNEX 9
Page 3
siderably by crop. Examples, for several of the major crops, of assumed
increases from "pre-project" conditions to the fifth year of the farmer's
participation (in ton/ha) are: manioc, from 10 to 16; "mulatinho" beans in
pure stand, from 0.75 to 1.2, and in consortium, from 0.55 to 1.0; maize in
consortium, from 0.8 to 1.4; castor beans in consortium (production for 2
years) from 0.8 to 1.4; leaf tobacco, from 0.9 to 1.4; oranges from 10 to 18;
and irrigated garlic, from 3 to 6.
Livestock Development
5.        Project livestock activities would be concentrated among the small
(50-100 ha) and medium-small (100-200 ha) producers in the central part of the
project area. Like other cattle operations in the project area, most of these
smaller operations are stocked mainly with cross-bred Zebu cattle. In spite
of on-going campaigns to control foot-and-mouth, rabies and brucellosis,
these diseases still take a relatively high toll (foot-and-mouth morbidity
reaches almost 7% in some areas and brucellosis morbidity is up to 12% in
the more humid areas). With few exceptions, small and medium size producers
have had very little technical assistance, and production technology is still
at a relatively low level -- seasonal mating, herd grouping by age and sex
categories, castration and dehorning are usually not practiced, and pasture
management is poor. As a result, productivity coefficients in cattle opera-
tions are quite low (e.g., birth rate of 50%, calf mortality of 8-13%, age
at first calving of 3 years, slaughter age of males of 3-4 years at 400 kg
liveweight).
6.        Sheep and goats are also important for farmers of all property-sizes
in the project area, but are more common on the smaller size farms than
are cattle. Unfortunately, farmers pay little or no attention to their
husbandry and flocks are usually small and scattered, making it somewhat
difficult to assist in improving productivity. Some municipalities have
restrictive laws regarding the grazing of sheep and goats. Also, there is
so far a relatively undeveloped local market for sheep and goat meat and
goat milk, and little production of goat cheese. Although well managed goat
production might compete advantageously with cattle in the drought-prone
areas, developing consistently applicable recommendations is complicated by
the fact that most of the farms under 50 hectares are mixed operations depending
mainly on crop production and only partly on animals. This mixture involves
an often efficient use of resources -- feeding the animals on the otherwise
wasted by-products of crop production and on the refuse from human consump-
tion -- and also a system of diversification against risk. Though the farmer
knows that pasture is not good for crop growth, he plants it as a hedge
against crop failure, often doing so only if he thinks his crops will not
produce (pests, bad seed) or that rain will be insufficient. Sometimes, he
may rent the pasture to livestock owners. (In the case of non-owner farmers,
landlords often require the planting of pasture after a year or two of crop
production, usually permanently forcing the renter or sharecropper to move on
to new land.) As noted in previous sections of this report, it is intended
that the research and special studies activities carried out under the project
will help develop recommendations for improved management and income of the
small mixed farm operations.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
7.        Insofar as the slightly larger (50-200 ha) but still low-income
operations depending mainly on livestock are concerned, two illustrative
farm models were developed to test the possible impact of access to credit
and improved technology -- one, of about 80 ha, for breeding/dairy operations
and another, of about 130 ha, for breeding/fattening. The results of the
financial analyses are described in paras 8.01-8.02. In both cases emphasis
would be placed on better use of existing land and vegetation resources,
improving pasture and herd management, and developing better livestock watering
points. Pasture improvement investments would include the establishment of
new pasture and the adoption of improved legume and pasture seeds and of
herbicides and fertilizers on a minor scale; small on-farm water reservoirs
would be constructed in natural depressions and fencing would be developed;
there would be only relatively minor construction of other cattle handling
facilities or purchase of equipment.
8.        For the breeding/dairy operation, it was assumed that the producer
would also typically purchase an improved cross-bred bull to upgrade gradually
the overall herd milk producing capacity. It is expected that the combined
investments to improve nutritional levels (pasture, mineral salts and water)
and the introduction of simple improved herd management techniques (such as
grazing different animal categories in separate paddocks and a vaccination and
deparasitization program) should reduce animal mortality rates by 50% and
upgrade the calving rate to 75%; improve the stocking rate from 0.6 animal
units per hectare to 0.7 on improved pasture, and increase gradually the
marketable milk production from 2 liters per cow per day during 200 days of
the year to 3 liters per cow per day for 220 days at full development. Other
details of the estimated patterns of development in the project livestock
operations are available in the Project File (Supplementary Staff Working
Paper No. 15, Livestock Development and Production Technology). Though none
of the assumed changes in productivity coefficients could be considered very
significant by itself, the combined improvements, expected to be realized as a
result of quite intensive extension assistance, should together allow the
producer to achieve reasonably increased income.
Irrigation Development
9.        The expected project participants with irrigated crop production
(about 635 total) will include some 500 assisted by the proposed small irriga-
tion schemes to be developed or upgraded under the project. The other 135
irrigation participants would basically be maintaining existing small scale
irrigation schemes but adopting improved production practices. Irrigated
crops are expected to include mainly beans, rice, maize, tomatoes, onions,
garlic, peanuts and some soya. The main facets of the expected agricultural
technology and yields are discussed in para 4. It is estimated that individual
farmers would have around 3 hectares under irrigation, and conservatively
assumed that cropping intensity would be equivalent, on average, to one crop
per year. Eventually, a cropping intensity averaging 1.4 should be possible.



8R;.ZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL D'~VELOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL                                     FARM TYPE:       SUB-AFEA I (PLANALTO), 10-50 HA
IN CRS
1/                         CALENDAR
WITHOUT PROJECT-                             1978     1979      1960     1981     1982     1984     1966      1988     1990     1992
GROSS VALUE                               9,641    9,780    9.884    9,977   10.081   10,182   10.182   10,182   10.182   10.182
u TOTAL INFLOW                                9.641    9,780    9.884    9.977   10.081   10,182   10.182   10.182   10.182   10,182
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        1,687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1.687    1.687    1.687    1.687    1.687
* NET INFLOW                                  7.955    8,094    8.197    8,290    8.395    8,496    8.496    8,496    8.496    8,496
DIRECT PRODUCTION COS.                    1.027    1.027    1.027    1.027    1.027    1,027    1.027    1,027    1.027    1.027
- TUTAL OUTFLOW                               1.027    1,027    1.027    1.027    1.027    1,027    1.027    1,027    1.027    1.027
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                          6.928    7,067    7,170    7,263    7.368    7,469    7,469    7,469    7.469    7,469
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                       1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687
+ NnN-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                      1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687    1.687    1,687
LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                      3,120    3,120    3.120    3.120    3.120    3,120    3.120    3.120    3,120    3,120
* NET FARM BENEFIT                            5.495    5,633    5.737    5.833    5.935    6,036    6.036    6.036    6,036    6,036
1/ Based on pre-project cultivation of 2 ha:  0.5 ha of beans/corn, 0.5 ha of manioc, 0.5 ha of tobacco,
and 0.5 ha of miscellaneous other crops.  Projections for "without" project situation based on
assumption that marginal increases in production would occur even without the project.
OQ a,
C N  M
**CONTINUED*



**CONTINUED*                                          BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL                                         FARM TYPE:  SUB-AREA I (PLANALTO), 10-50 HA
IN CRS
CALENDAR
WITH PROJECT  1/                                1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1984      1986      1988     1990      1992
-ROSS VALUE _0.067   10                                        1    4   2
GROSS VALUE O10.067   14,096   18.934   23,690   33.313   37,753   42.193   42,193   42.193   42,193
*TOTAL INFLOW                                  10,067   14,096   18.934   23,690   33,313   37,753   42.193   42,193   42,193   42,193
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          1.998    1,998    1.998    1,998    1.998    1,998    1.998    1,998    1.998    1,998
* NET INFLOW                                     8.069   12,098   16.936   21.692   31.314   35,754   40,194   40,194   40.194   40,194
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      3,877    4,758    8.273    9,302   16.331   19,991   20.261   20,261   20.261   20,261
HIRED LABOR COST                                 0        0         0         0        0       384       384      384       384       384
INVESTMENTS                                 2.500   18,236    6.052    5.596         360         0         0         0        0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOw                                  6.377   22,994   14.325   14,898   16.691   20,375   20.645   20,645   20,645   20,645
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                             1.692  *--O,896    2.610    6,794   14.624   15,379   19.549   19,549   19,549   19,549
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         1.993    1,998    1.998    1,998    1,998    1,998    1.998    1,998    1.998    1,998
+ NON-'PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        1,9938    1,998    1.998    1,998    1,998    1,998    1.998   -1,998    1,998    1,9.98
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                         3,569    4,416    5.95B    6.354    7.866    7,770    7.770    7,770    7.770    7,770
* NET FARM BENEFIT                                 122  -13,314   -1.349    2.438    8,756    9,607   13.777   13,777   13.777   13,777
------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-----------------------------------
1/ Assumes gradual increases in yields as well as an increase in area cultivated to 4.5 ha by full development:
1.5 ha of beans/corn, 0.8 ha of manioc, 0.5 ha of corn, 0.5 ha of tobacco, and 1.2 ha of citrus.   Citrus
planting was assumed to begin in year 2.
d iq t
SD C N
**CONTINUED;



**CONTINUED*                                           BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET, FINANCIAL                                          FARM TYPE:   SUE-APFA I (PLAYfI,O0), 10-50 HA
IN CR5
CALENDAR
INCREMENTAL                                      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1984      1986      1988      1990      1992
GROSS VALUE                                     426    4,316    9.050   13,713   23.231   27,570   32.010   32,010   32,010   32,010
* TOTAL INFLOW                                      426    4,316    9.050   13,713   23.231   27,570   32.010   32,010   32.010   32,010
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                             312       312       312       312       312       312       312       312       312       312
* NET INFLOW                                        114    4.005    8.739   13.402   22.920   27,259   31,699   31,699   31,699   31.699
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                        2.850    3,732    7.247    8,275   15.304   18,965   19,235   19,235   19,235   19,235
HIRED LABOR COST                                  O         0         0         0         0      384       384       384       384       384
INVESTMENTS                                  2.500   18,236    6.052    5.596          360         0         0         0         0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                   5.350   21,968   13.299   13.871   15.664   19,349   19.619   19.619   19.619   19,619
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                             -5.235  *-17.963   -4.560       -470    7.256    7,910   12.080   12,080   12,080   12,080
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                             312       312       312      312       312       312       312       312       312       312
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW.                           312       312       312       312       312       312       312       312       312       312
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                            449    1,296   -2.838   .3,234    4.746    4,650    4.650    4,650    4,650    4,650
* NET FARM BENEFIT                               -5.373  -18,948   -7.086   -3.392    2.821    3,572    7.742    7,742    7,742    7,742
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN  13.4Z (for 30 years)
t -3 t
m    -   .
wX X



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE: SUB-AREA I (PLANALTO), 10-50 HA
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$O0O)
------ - -------- --------- ------------------------------------ ----- YEAR -------- -------------------------------------------- -----------
0       1        2        3        4'      5        6        7        8        9      10       12
(I)   CASH INFLOW:
I  VALLUE OrF PRODUCTION                9.0      l.1    12.1    16.9    2t.7    31.3    33.1    35.8    38.4    40.2    40.2    40.2
2  INVESTMENr l_OAN   (i00% OF 5)         0      2.5    18. 2     6.1      5.6       .4        0        0       0        0        0        
3  ShOkT TERM LOAN             (6)       0       3.9     4.8      8.3      9.3    16.3    20.0    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
4   TOTAL lNFLOW           (1+2+3)      8.0    14.5    35.1    31.3    36.6    48.0    53.1    56.0    S8.7    60.6    60.6    60.6
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
5  IUVESTMENT COST                        0      2.S    18.2      6.1      5.6       .4        0        0        0       0        0        0
6  OuER,ATING COST                     1,0       3.9     4.8      8.3      9.3    16.3    20.0    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.0
7   TOTAL OUTFLOW            (5+6)      1.0      6.4    23.0    14.4    14.9    16.7    20.0    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
(III) NET CASH FLOW:
8   NET CASH FLOW            (4-7)      7.0      8.1    12.t    16.9    21.7    31.3    33.1    35.8    38.4    40.2    40.2    40.2
(IV) rE8T SERVICES:
9  INVJ:3T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT,           o        0        0       0        0       .3      2.4     3.3      4.2      4.5      4.8      5.0
10 ITYNISTMENT LOf,N INTEREST 1/          0       .1       .8     1.7      2.1      2.3     2.3      2.1      1.9      1.6      1.3       .6
1; SMORT TERM LOAN INTEREST T/            0       .1       .1      .1       .2       .3       .4       .4       .4      .4       .4       .4
12 ShORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.           0     3.9      4.8      8.3      9.3    16.3    20.0    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
13  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)         0       4.1     5.7    10.1    11.5    19.2    25.0    25.9    26.7    26.8    26.8    26.4
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
14  CASH BALANCE            (8-13)      7.0      4.0     6.4      6.8    10.2    12.1        8.1     9.9    11.7    13.4    13.4    13.e
__  ____'1
1/ Calculations based on 7% interest rate in effect at time of appraisal.                                                           w|



NnRrTt1EAST RA7ZIL
BAJIXW RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE: SUB-AREA I (PLANALTO), 10-50 HA.,
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
- --------     ---    ------     --------           --          YEAR------------               --   ------------
0       1 O      2        3        4        3        6        7        8        9       tO       12- 20
___-  -   -- - - - -- - - -    -- - - -- - -    --- --        -- - --  - -_   -- -- -   --- -- -- -- -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __    __ _ _ _ _-__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _-_ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _ _ _ -- - -- - - -- - -  - _________--
(I). CASH INFLOW:
1  VALUE OF PRODUCTION                 8.0      8.1    12.1    16.9    21.7    W1-3    33.1    35.8    38.'4    40.2    40.2    40.2
2  INVESTMENT LOAN   (1OOZ OF 5)         0      2.5    58.2      6.1     5.6        .4       0        0        0        0       0        0
3  SHORT TERM LOAN             (6)       0      3.9     4.8      8.3     9.3    16,.3    20.0    20.2    ?0.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
4   TOTAL INFLOW           (1+2+3)      8.0,   14.5    75.1    31.3    36.6    48.0    53.1    56.0    58.7    60.6    60.6    60.6
(Ir)  CASH OUTFLOW:
5  INVESTMENT COST                       0      2.5    58.2      6.1   1 5.6        *4        0       0        0        0        0        0
6  OPERATING COST                        0      3,9     4.8      8.3     9.3      16.3    20.0    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
7   TOTAL OUTFLOW            (5+6)       0      6.4    63.0    14.4    14.9       16.7    20.0    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
(Irl) NET CASH FLOW:
8   NET CASH FLOW'           (4-7)      7.     8.1    12.1    16.9    21.7       31.3    33.1    35.8    38.4    40.2    40.2    40.2
(IV) DEBT SERVICES:
9  INVEST. LOAN PRINCIPAL Pu2T.          0        0        0       O        0       .3      2.4      3.3     4.2      4.5      4.8      5.0
10 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST 2/           0       .1       .8     1.7     2.1       2.3      2.3     2.1      1.9      1.6      1.3       .6
11 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST T/           O       .1       .1      .1       .2        3       *4       ,4       .4      ,4       .4       .4
12 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.          0      3.9     4.8      8.3     9.3      16.3    2O0O    20.2    20.3    20.4    20.4    20.4
13. I.LL~ PUS P4IJ~. & li. PX~.0        0     2.4-    4.8    4.8        4.8      4.8      4.8      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
14. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 13)         0     4.1      8.1    14.9   1&3         24.0     29.8     30.7    32.7     32.8     32.8    32.8
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
15 CASH BALANCE            (8-14)     7.0      4.0     4.0      2.0     5.4       7.3      3.3      5.1     5.7      7.4      7.4      7.8
1/ Incltuding larld purchase credit of Cr$ 40,000 for 8 ha, carrying 12% rate of interest, for 20 years  including a    co
-/6 year grace period.
2/ Calculati ons bAsed on 7% interest rate in effect at time of appraisal..4



BR,ZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL C:VELOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL                                        FARM TYPE:  SUh-ARELA IT (CRISTALINO SUL), UP TO 10 HA
IN CRS
1/                          CALENDAR
WITHOUT PROJECT _.                              1978     1979      1980     1981      1982      1984      1986     1988      1990      1992
____,___   -------
GROSS VALUE                                 6.815    6,881    6.954    7,014    7.093    7.169    7.169    7,169    7,169    7,169
* TOTAL INFLOW                                  6.815    6,881    6.954    7.014    7,093    7,169    7.169    7,169    7,169    7.169
-   ON-FARM CON'UMPTION                            929      929       929       929      929       929       929      929       929       929
NET INFLOW                                    5.887    5,953    6.025    6,085    6.164    6,240    6.240    6,240    6,240    6,240
DIRECT PRODUCTION cosr                        500       518       500      518       500       500      500       500       5D0       500
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                    500      518       500      518       500       500       SOO      500       500       500
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                            5.386    5,434    5.525    5,567    5.664    5,740    5.740    5,740    5.740    5.740
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                           929       929       929      929       929       929      929       929       929       929
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                           929      929       929       929      929       929       929      929       929       929
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                        2.322    2,274    2.322    2,274    2,322    2,322    2.322    2,322    2,322    2,322
NET FARM BENEFIT                              3.993    4,089    4.132    4,22'    4.270    4,346    4.346    4.346    4,346    4,346
1/ Based on pre-project cultivation of 2.0 ha:  0.4 ha of beans/corn/castor beans, 1.0 ha of manioc, 0.2 ha of tobacco
and 0.4 ha of castor beans in purestand.  Projections for "without project" situation based on assumption that
marginal increases in production would occur even without project.
UQ !3 
M D
**CONTINUED*



R,.ZI L-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL C--VELOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM 8UDGET. FINANCIAL                                        FARM TYP;, TYPE :  SUB-AREt  II (CRISTALINO SUL), UP TO 10 HA
IN CRS
CALENDAR
WITH PROJECT  1/                               1978      1979     1980      1981     19S2      1984     1985      1988      1990     1992
GROSS VALUE                                 7.002   13,595   19.264   26.936   34.881   34,881   34.881   34,881   34,881   34.881
* TOTAL INFLOW                                  7.002   13,595   19.264   26,936   34.881   34.881   34.881   34,881   34,881   34,881
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         2.467    2,467    2.467    2.467    2.467    2,467    2.467    2.467    2,467    2.467.
' NET INFLOW                                    4.534   11,128   16.79S   24.468   32,413   32,413   32.413   32,413   32,413   32.413
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      2.715    4,141    7,514    9,480   11.183   11,183   11.183   11.183   11.183   11.183
INVESTMENTS                                 2.740    2,220       720      960       960         0        0         0        0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 5.455    6,361    8.234   10,440   12.143   11.183   11.183   11.183   11,183   11,183
NET FARM CASH FLOW                             -921    4.767    8.562   14.028   20.270   21.230   21.230   21,230   21,230   21,230
ON-FARM CONSU=PTION                         2.467    2,467    2.467    2.467    2.467    2,467    2.467    2.467    2,467    2,467
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        2.467    2,467    2.467    2,467    2.467    2,467    2.467    2,467    2,467    2.467
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                        1.872    4,278    6.030    7.518    8.490    8,490    8.490    8.490    8,490    8.490
= NET FARM BENEFIT                               -325    2,957    4.999    8,980   14.247  *15,207   15.207   15,207   15,207   15,207
1/ Assumes gradual increases in yields, a moderate change in the cropping pattern and an increase in area cultivated
to 5.0 ha by full development: 1.5 ha in beans/corn, 2.0 ha in manioc, 0.5 ha in tobacco, and 1.0 ha in beans/castor beans,
**CONTINUED*
m   ft.-
(D, 
(n X-t
M V



**CONTINUED.                                          BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVEILOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET, FINANCIAL                                        FARM TYPE:   SUB-AREA II (CRISTALINO SUL), UP TO 10 HA
CALENDAR
INCREMENTAL                                     1978     1979      1980     1981      1982      1984     1986      1988      1990      1992
GR_ SS VALU                                        186    6 4 1_                1 1    7
GROSS IALUE                                    1B6    6,714   12.309   19,921   27,788   27,712   27.712   27,712   27,712   27,712
*TOTAL INFLOW                                     186    6,714   12,309   19,921   27,788   27,712   27.712   27,712   27,712   27,712
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          1,539    1,539    1,539    1.539    1,539    1,539    1,539    1,539    1,539    1,539
* NET INFLOW                                   -1,352    5,175   10.771   18.383   26.249   26,173   26.173   26,173   26.173   26,173
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      2,215    3,622    7.014    8.962   10.683   10,683   10.683   10,683   10,683   10,683
INVESTMENTS                                 2,740    2,220        720      960       960         0         0        0         0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  4,955    5,842    7.734    9,922   11,643   10.683   10,683   10,683   10.683   10.683
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                            -6.307     -667    3.037    8,461   14,606   15,490   15,490   15,490   15,490   15,490
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          1.539    1,539    1.539    1.539    1.539    1,539    1.539    1.539    1,539    1,539
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                         1.539    1,539    1.539    1.539    1.539    1,539    1.539    1,539    1,539    1,539
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                          -450    2,004    3.708    5.242    6.168    6,168    6.168    6,168    6.168    6.168
NET FARM BENEFIT                             -4.318   -1.132        868    4.758    9.977   10,861   10,861   10.861   10.861   10.861
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    10.00 % EQUALS  51273 CRS
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    15.00 % EQUALS  35305 CRS
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    20.00 % EQUALS  24831 CRS
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 64.61 %.
-T F3 >
(0 I.  



NORTHEAST BRAzrL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE:- SUB-AREA II (CRISTALINO SUL), UP TO 10 H A
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
--------------         - -------------YEAR----^________
IEM                                 0         1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       12
(I)   CASH INFLOW:
1  VALUE OF PROOUCTION                   5.9     4,5    11.1    16.B    24.5    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4
2  IN'VESTMENT LOAN   (100% OF 5)          0     2.7      2.2       .7      1.0      1.0        0        0        0        0       O.       0
3  Si-'RT TEhM LOAN             (6)        0     2.7      4.1      7.5      9.5    11.2    11,2    11.2    11.2    11.2         11.2     11.2
4   TOTAL INIFLOW          (1+2+3)      6.9      9.9    17.4    25.0    35.0    44.6    43,6    43.6    43.6    43.6    43.6    43..
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
S  INVESTMENT COST                         0     2.7      2.2       .7    .1.0       1.0        0        0        0        0        0        0
6  OPERATING COST                         .5     2.7      4.1      7,5      9.5    11.2    11.2    1l.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2
7   TO-AL OUTFLOW            (5+6)        .5     5,4      6.3      EJ.2    10.5    12.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2
(III) NET CelSH FLOW:
S   NET CASH FLOW            (4-7)               4.5    11.1    16.8    24.5    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4
(IV)  DEBT SEfVICES:
9  TNv2EST. LCAN FRINCIPAL FMT.           0        0        0        0        0       .3-      .6       .7       .9      1.1     1.1        .8
10 INYV1STMENT LL,]A  INTEREST  1/        0       .1       .3       .4       ,4                .5       .5       .4      .4       4.        .1
11 SF-.;1T TERM LCrlN IN'EREST  T/       .0       .0       .1       .1       .2       .2       .2       .2       .2       .2      *2       .2
12 SHOCT-T. LOi4 PRINGII:AL PMT.          0      2.7      4.1      7.5      9.5    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2
13  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)                2.8      4.4      8,0    10.1    12.2    12.5    12.6    12.7    12.8    12.8    12.3
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
14  CASH BALANCE            ;8-13)      5-4      1.7      6.7      8.8    14.4    20.2    i9.9    19.8    19.7    19.6    19.6    20.'1
1/ CalculatiOns based on 7% interest rate in effect at time of appraisal.
I/ CacltinDasdb
,.  '



BR,ZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
7 FARM BUDGET, FINANCIAL                                       FARM TYPE: SV"-AREA III (CHAPADA DIAMANTINA) 10-50 HA
IN CRS
I/                          CALENDAR
WITHOUT PROJECT  /                           C97A   1979         1980      1981     1982      1984     1986      1988     1990     1992
_____----      -                              1978      197_
GROSS VALUE                               14.339   14,577   14,720   14.856   15,002   15.153   15.153   15.153   15.153   15.153
n TOTAL INFLOW                                14,339   14.577   14.720   14.856   15.002   15,153   15.153.  15,153   15,153   15.153
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        1,053    1,053    1.053    1,053    1.053    1,053    1.053    1.053    1.053    1.053
NET INFLOW                                  13,286   13,524   13.666   13,803   13.949   14,100   14.100   14.100   14.100   14,100
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                     1.125    1.125    1.125    1.125    1.125    1,125    1.125    1.125    1,125    1.125
T TOTAL OUTFLO'                                1.125    1,125    1,125    1.125    1.125    1,125    1.125    1.125    1.125    1,125
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                          12.161   12,399   12.542   12.679   12.824   12,975   12.975   12.975   12.975   12,975
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                       1JOF3    1,053    1.053    1.053    1,053    1,053    1.053    1,053    1,053    1,053
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        1.053    1,053    1.053    1.053    1.053    1,053    1.053    1,053    1.053    1,053
L LESS FAM"LY LABOR COST                       3.962    3,962    3.962    3,962    3.962    3,962    3.962    3,962-   3,962    3,962
* NET FARM BENEFIT                             9.253    9,491    9.633    9,770    9.916   10,067   10.067   10.067   10,067   10,067
1/  Based on pre-project cultivation of 3.5 ha:  0.4 ha of beans/manioc, 0.5 ha of beans/corn/manioc, 0.25 ha of
beans in pure stand,1.0 ha of manioc and 1.35 'ha of miscellaneous other crops. Projections for "without
project" situation based on assumption that marginal increases in production would occur even without the
project.
CzTN
**CONT INUED.



**CONTINUED*                                         BRJ.Z IL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL D'VEI.OPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET, FINANCIAL                                       FARM TYPE:  SUB-AREA III (CHAPADA DIAMANTINA), 10-50 HA
IN CRS
I/                             CALENDAR
WITH PROJECT                                   L   R978  1979    1980      1981     1982     1984      1986     1988      1990     1992
_____ ___- .-                                 1978      1979
GROSS VALUE                               14,348   21,004   32.585   43.628   48,814   48,814   48.814   48.814   48.814   48,814
* TOTAL INFLOW                                 14.348   21,004   32.585   43,628   48.814   48,814   48.814   48,814   48.814   48.814
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         4.667    4,667   .4.667    4.667    4,667    4.667    4.667    4,667    4,667    4,667
X NET INFLOW                                   9.681   16,337   27.919   38.961   44.147   44.147   44.147   44,147   44.147   44,147
DIRECT PRODUCTION COS                      5.712    7,150   13.252   15,600   15,600   15,600   15.600   15,600   15,600   15.600
HIRED LABOR COST                                0        0       64       247      382      382       382      315       315      315
INVESTMENTS                                2.620    2,940    1.440    1,200          0        0         0        0         0        0
- TOTAL OUTFLCW                                8.332   10,090   14.756   17.047   15,982   15,982   15.982   15.915   15.915   15,915
a NET FARM CASH FLOW                            1.350    6,247   13.163   21,914   28.164   28,164   28.164   28,232   28,232   28.232
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        4.667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4.667    4,667    4.667    4,667
'+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                       4.667    4,667    4.667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4,667    4,667
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                        3.596    5,168    8.709    9.90.1    9.765    9,765    9.765    9,833    9.833    9,833
a NET FARM BENEFIT                             2.420    5,747    9,120   16,680   23.066   23,066   23.066   23,066   23.066   23,066
1/ Assumes gradual increases in yields, some changes in the cropping patternand increase in area cultivated to
7.0 ha by full development: 2.5 ha of beans/corn, 2.7 ha of manioc, 0.3 ha of tobacco (strings}, and 1.5 ha
of beans/castor beans.
'T _3M
CDX
'D
**CONTINUED*



**CONTINUED*                                          BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVEI.OPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL                                         FARM TYPE:  SUB-AREA III (CHAPADA DIMIANTINA), 10-50 HA
IN CRS
CALENDAR
INCREMENTAL                                     1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1984      1986     1988      1990      1992
GROSS VALUE                                      9    6,427   17.866   28.771   33.811   33,661   33.361   33,661   33.661   33.661
w TOTAL INFLOW                                       9    6,427   17.866   28.771   33.811   33,661   33.661   33,661   33.661   33,661
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          3.614    3,614    3,614    3.614    3.614    3,614    3.614    3,614    3,614    3,614
- NET INFLOW                                    -3.604    2,813   14.252   25.158   30.198   30,047   30.047   30,047   30,047   30.047
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      4.587    6,025   12.127   14,475   14.475   14,475   14.475   14,475   14.475   14,475
HIRED LABOR COST                                 0        0        64       247      382       382       382       315      315       315
INVESTMENTS                                 2.620    2,940    1.440    1,200           0         0         0         0        0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  7,207    8,965   13,631   15,923   14.858   14,858   14.8E8   14,790   14,790   14,790
NET FARM CASH FLOW                          -10,812   -6,152        621    9,235   15.340   15,189   15.189   15,257   15.257   15,257
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         3,614    3,614    3.614    3,614    3.614    3,614    3.614    3,614    3,614    3,614
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                         3.614    3,614    3.614    3.614    3.614    3,614    3.614    3,614    3.614    3,614
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                          -365    1,206    4.748    5.939    5.804    5,804    5.804    5.871    5.871    5,871
= NET FARM BENEFIT                              -6.833   -3.744      -513    6,910   13.150   12,999   12.999   12,999   12,999   12,999
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    10.00 % EQUALS  58067 CRS
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    15.00 % EQUALS  38886 CRS
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    20.00 % EQUALS  26313 CRS
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 50.41 X.
-3 >
owa DI
fD >4
LO
'-D



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
DAHrA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE:  SUB-AREA III (CHAPADA DIAMAITINA), 10-50 HA
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$O00)
ITEE                            0        1       2        3        4        5       6        7        9        9       10       12
(I)   CASH INFLOW:
1  VALUE OF PRODUCTION                13,3      9.7    16.3    27.9    35.09    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1
2  1rNVESTMZN'T LOAN   (100X OF 5)       0      2.6      2.V      1.4      1.2        0       0        0       ,0        0        0        0
3  SHORT TERM LOAN             (6)       0      5.7      7.2.   13.3    15.8    16.0    15.8    16.0    1h .0    16.0    16.0    16.0
4   TOTAL INFLOW           (1+2+3)    13.3   .18.0    26.4    42.6.   55.9    60.1    59.9    60.1    60.1    60.1    60.1    60.1
(II)  CASH OUTFLOWt
5  ItJVESTMENT COST                      0      2.6      2.9      1.4      1.2       0        0        0        0        0        0        0
6  OFERATING COST                      1.1      5,7      7.2    13.3    15.8    16.0    15.8    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
7   TOTAL OUTFLOW            (5+6)      1.1     8,3    10.1    14.7    1 7.0    16.0    15,8    16.0    16*0    16.0    16.0    1S.0
(III) NgT CASH FLOW:
8   NET CASH FLOW            (4-7)    12.2      9.7    16.3    27.9    38.9    44,1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1
(IV)  DEBT SERVICES:
9  1NvE,;T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.           0        0       0        0        0       ,3       ,7      .9      1.1      1.1      1.2       .9
10 IN4UEFTENr LOAN INTEREST  1/          0       .1       ,3       .4       .5       .6      .5       .5       .4       .4       .3       .1
11 ShORT TERM LOAN INTEREST  T/                  .1       .1       .2       .3       ,3      ,3       .3       .3.      .3       .3       .3
12 SHORT-T. LOAN fRINCIPAL PKT.          v      5.7      7.2    13.3    15.8    16.0    15.8    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
13  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)                5.9      7.6    14.0    16.6    17.1    17.3    17.6    17.8    17.8    17.8    17.3
(V)   CNSH BALA1iCE?
14  CASH BALANICE           (8-13)    12.2      3.8      8.7    13.9    22.3    2790    26.8    26.5    26.3    26*3    26.3    26.a
/1 Caclulations based on 7%.interest rate in effect at time of appraisal.                                                         (t -|
(D  F  1
r 8



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
9AHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE: SUB-AR1,A III (CHAPADA DIAMANTINA), 10-50 HA
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
--------- --------------------------------------------------YEAR-----------------------------------------------------  --------
ITEM                           0        1       2        3       4        5       6        7       a        9       tO      12-20
(I)   CASH INFLOW;
1 VALUE OF PRODUCTION                 13,3    9*7    16.3    27.9    38.9    4441    44.1    44*1    44,1    44.1.  44.1    44.1
2  INVESTMENT LOAN   (IOOX OF 5)          0    2.6    27.90/   1.4       1.2       0        0       0        0       0        0        0
3  SHORT TERM LOAN            (6)        0    5.7       7*2    13.3    15.8    16.0    15.98   16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
4   TOTAL INFLOW          (1+2+3)      13.3   18.0    41.4   42.6    55.9    60.1    59.9    60.1    60.1    60.1    60.1    60*1
(II)  CASH OUTFLOWt
5  INVESTMENT COST                       0     2.6    27.9      1.4      1.2       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
6  OPERATING COST                      1.1     5.7      7.2    13.3    15.9    16.0    1S.8    16,0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
7   TOTAL OUTFLOW           (5+6)      1.1     8.3    35.1    14.7   t17*0    16.0    15.8    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
(III) NET CASH FLOWS
8   NET CASH FLOW           (4-7)    12.2      9.7    16.3    27*9    38.9    44*1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1    44.1
(IV) DEBT SERVICES:
9  INVEST. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.          0        0        0       0        0       *3      *7       .9     1.1      1.1     1.2       .9
10 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST 2/          0        ,       ,3      .4       .5      .6       ,5       ,5      ,4       ,4       .3      .1
11 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST 7/          0       .1      1*       *2       .3      ,3       ,3       ,3      ,3       ,3       ,3  ' 3
12 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PWT.               57      7.      13.3    15.8    16.0    15.98   16.0    160    16.0    16.0    16.0
13 LuND PUR. PRiNC. & INT. PMT.                  0     1.5     3.0    3. 0       3.0     3.0      3.0     3.8      3.8      3.8.8
2a TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 13)               5.9    9.1    17.0    19.6        20.1   20.3      20.6   21.6    21.6    21.6       21.1
(V)   CASH BALANCE9
I5  CASH BALANCE           (8-4)      17.2    3.8    7,2    10.9    19.3    24.0    23.5          23.5   22.5    22.5    22.5    23.0
-------------------------------------------------------__---_-------------------
1/ Incl-udiig land purchase credit of Cr$ 25,000 for 10 ha, carrying 127 rate of interest, for 20 years including a               > u 
6 year grcae period.
2/ Calculations based on 7% interest rate in effect at time of appraisal.



BRi,ZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL C8EVELOPMENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL       FARM TYPE:  SUB-AREA III (CHAPADA DTAMANTINA), IRRIG. UP TO 10 HA
IN CRS
CALENDAR
WITHOUT PROJECT                               1978      1979     1980      1981     1982     1984      1986     1988      1990     1992
GROSS VALUE                               12.290   12,429   12,551   12,657   12,778   12,918   12.918   12,918   12,918   12,918
TOTAL INFLOW                                 12.290   12,429   12,551   12,657   12.778   12,918   12,918   12,918   12,918   12,918
-   ON-FARM CONoUMPTION                         1,659    1.659    1.659    1.659    1.659    1,659    1.659    1,659    1,659    1,659
= NET INFLOW                                  10,631   10,770   10.892   10,993   11.119   11,259   11,259   11.259   11,259   11,259
DIRECT PRODUCTION COSi                     2.270    2,270    2.270    2,270    2.270    2,270    2.270    2,270    2,270    2,270
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                2.270    2,270    2.270    2.270    2.270    2,270    2.270    2,270    2,270    2,270
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                           8,361    8,500    8.622    8,728    8.849    8,989    8,989    8,989    8,989    8,989
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        1.659    1,659    1.659    1.659    1.659    1,659    1.659    1,659    1,659    1,659
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        1.659    1.659    1.659    1.659    1,659    1,659    1.659    1,659    1.659    1.659
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                       2.562    2,562    2,562    2,562    2,562    2,562    2.562    2,562    2,562    2,562
u NET FARM BENEFIT                             7.458    7,597    7,719    7,8,.-    7.946    8,085    8.085    8,085    8.085    8,085
1/ Based on pre-project cultivation of 1.0 ha irrigated:  0.4 ha of beans/corn, 0.1 ha of rice, 0.25 ha of vegetables
and 0.25 ha of miscellaneous other crops.  Projections for "without project" situation based on assumption that
marginal increases in production would occur even without the project.
(D CN UX
**CONTINUED*



**CONTINUED#                                          ORAZ I L-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOP1MENT PROJECT   PARAGUACU
FARM BUDGET, FINANCIAL    FARM TYPE: SlTllI-ARElA ITT (CIHAPAI)A DIAMANTINA), IRRIG. UP 10 10 IIA
IN CRS
CALENDAR
WITH PROJECT                                    1973      1979     1980      1981      1902     1984      1986      1988     19-30     1992
GROSS VALUE                                 1G.720   2G,182   30,628   63.923   70.742   70,742   70.742   70.7-;2   70.7-2   70,42
* TOTAL UtJFLOW                                 16,720   26.182   38,628   63,923   70,742   70.742   70,742   70,742   70.742   70,742
-   WASTE AND LOSS                               2.180    3,109    4,670    8,809    9,800            0         0        0         a         0
-   O0-FARM CONSUMPTION                          1.779    1,779    1.779    1.779    1.779    1.779    1.779    1,779    1.779    1,779
- h'Et INFLOW                                   12.761  *21,295   32.173   53.335   59.163   68,963   68,963   6S,9o3   62.953   68,923
DIRECT PRODUCT1ON COST.                     10.0G:;  11,904   15,679   21.579   22,039   22.033   22.033   22,02.S  s2,22.;
HIRED LABOR COST                                 3                11 7    1.155    1.155    1,155    1.155.   1,155        1.15-3    1,155
INVESBTMENTS'                               16,615    2?, 445   20,945    6,830         0        0         0         0         0        0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  26,680    34,349   36 741  29 564  23,193   23,193   23.193   23,193   23,193   23,l93
NET FARM CASH FLOW                           *-13,964   -13,054   - 4,562   23,771  35,970   45,770   45,770, '45,770   4 '., 7.    45,770
ON-FAPM CONSUW,PTION                         1.779    1,779    1.779    1.779    1.779    1.779    1.779    1,779    1 .77          1.-73
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                         1.779    1.779    1.779    1,779    1.779.,   1,779    1.779    1,77-J    1.,73    1,779
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                         4.293    4,959    6.306    7,230    7,440    7,440    7,440    7,440    7,440    7,440
* NET FARM BENEFIT                            ,-16,47B   -16,234   -9,089    18,321   30,309   40,109   40.109   40,109   40,109   40,109
1/ Assumes. gradual increases in yields, a shift in the cropping pattern, and an increase, in area irrigated Co 3.0 lizi
by full deve1opment:  0.9 ha of beans, 0.6 ha of rice, 0.8 ha of corn, 0.3 ha of tomatoes, 0.3.ha of oei  ns,  anid
*    0.2 ha of garlic.
*d - >
0)0)_j
' .0
*.CONTINUEDo



**CONTINUED*                                           BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
BAHIA RURAL DEVEL.OPMENT PROJECI   PARAGUACU
FARM  TYPE: SUB-AREA ITT  (CITAPADA DIAM4ANTINA),   IRRIG. UP TO 10 ITA
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL
IN CRS
CALENDAR
INCREMENTAL                                      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1984      1986      1988      1990      1992
GROSS VAU                                    4        1     3       7       ,75                    4282                                7
GRTOT     VALUE                              4,430   13,753   26.077   51,266   57,964   57,824   57.824   57,824   57.824   57,824
=TOTAL INFLOW                                   4,430   13,753   26.077   51,266   57,964   57.824   57,824   57,824   57,824   57,824
-   WASTE AND LOSS                                2.180    3,109    4,670    8.809    9.800             0         0         0         0         0
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                             120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120
* NET INFLOW                                      2.130   10,524   21.287   42,337   48,043   57,704   57,704   57,704   57,704   57,704
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       7.795    9,634   13.409   19,309   19,768   19,768   19.768   19,768   19,768   19,768
HIRED LABOR COST                                  0         0      117    1,155    1.155    1,155    1,155    1,155    1,155    1,155
INVESTMENTS                                  16,615   22 445    20,945    6,830          0         0         0         0         0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  24,440   32,079    34,471   27,294   20.923   20,923   20,923   20,923   20.923   20,923
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                            -22,310   -21.555   -13,184   15,043   27.121   36,782   36.782   36,782   36,782   36,782
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                             120      '120      120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                            120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120
- LESS FAMILY LABOR COST                          1.731     2,397    3.744    4,668    4,878    4,878    4,878    4,678    4.878    4,878
. NET FARM BENEFIT                              -23,890   -9,717     4,137   17,325   22,363   32,024   32,024   32,024   32,024   32,024
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 28% (25 years)
-d g 
(D :4
4 xD



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE: SUB-AREA III (CHAPADA DIAMANTINA) IRRIG.UP TO 10 HA
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
---------------------------------------------------------------YEAR------------------ ---------- ----- - --- -- --- --
0       1        2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9      10       12
(I)   CASH INFL-OW:
1 VALUE OF PRODUCTION                 1        12.    2i.3    32.2    53.3    59.2    64.1    69.0    69.0    69.0    69.0    69.0
2  IN'Y.STMENT LOAN   (1OOZ OF 5).       0    16.6    22.4    20.9        6.B        0                     0            0
3  Sl-.RT TEm', Li)hN          (6)       0    10.0    11.9    15.8    22.7    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2
4   TUA,L INFL-OJ         (1+2+3)      10.    39.4 ~55.6    68.9    82,8    82.4    87.3    92.2    92.2    92.2    92.2    92.2
(II)  CA3H-1 COUTFLOW:
5  IhlVES ENT h COST                     O    16.6    22.4    20.9        6.8        0       0        0        0        0       0        0
6  Ofi-E;i-AlING COST                  2.3    10-0    11.9    15.8    22.7    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2
7   TulA;L CUTFLOW           (5+6)     2.3    26.6    34.3    36.7    29.5    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2
(1:1) NET C-.SH FLOW
8   NET CASH FLOW            (4-7)     6.3    12.8    21.3    32,2    53.3'   59.2    64.1    69,0    69.0    69.0    69.0    69.0
(IV) EB3T SERVICES:
9  lN'_ST. L5AN PRINCIPAL PMT.            0       0        0       0        0        0        0     2.3      5.6      6.9    10.5    12.0
10 I YESTl'NT LOAN INrEREST  1/           0      .6      1.9     3.5  *  4.4      4.7      4.7      4*.7     4.5     4.1    -3.5       2.0
1 I-.?T TERM LOAN INTEREST TI           .0      .2       .2       .3      .4       .4       4        4        4       .4       .4      .4
12 'i-.iRT-T, LOAN PRINCIPAL PtT.        u    10.0    11.9    15.8    22.7    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2
13  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)         0    10,8    14.1    19.5    27,5    28.3    2b.3    30.6    33.7    36.6    37.6    37.6
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
14  CASH BALANCE            (8-13)     8.3      2,0     7.2    12.7    25.8    30.9    35.8    38.4s   35.3    32.4    31.4    31.4
V/ Calculations based on 7% interest rat, in effect at time of appraisal.
Cw  :I
" >I 3
aP I 
$19



ANNEX 9
Table 
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE: SUB-AREA IV (CRISTALINO CENTRO), 80 HA DAIRY/BEEF
Investment Summary (Cr$)
Wnit Cost To.tal Cost
No.        Cr$     Cr$
Pasture (ha)                   25        1,670     41,750
Fences (Km)                     1        1U,260    11,260
Water Supply (dam/dugout)       1       10,000      10,000
Corral                         1         5,000      5,000
Saltlick                        1        1,228      1,228
Purchase of Breeding Stock      1        8,000      8,000
Other:  Planting Palmal         2 ha     2,050      4,100
Total                           -         -         81,338



ANNEX 9
Table 5
Page 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVElOPMEN  P=RJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE:  SUB-AREA IV (CRISTALINO CENTS), 80 HA DAIRY/BEEF
Herd Projection
Before              Year    (Year's End )
Herd Ccmposition         Development    1    2         3      4    5      6    7   8   9   1.0
Bulls                        1            1    1       1      1    1      1    1   1   1    1
Cows                        15           15   18    20    20   20    20   20  20  20   20
Heifers, 24 & 36 mos.        6             6    6      6      6    6      6    6   6   6    6
Heifers, 8-24 mos.           6            6    7       7      9   10    10   10  10  10   10
Calves                      13           13   14    18    20   20    20   20  20  20   20
Steers, 8-24 mos.            5            5    6       6      8    9      9    9   9   9    9
Total heads                 46           46   52    58    64   66    66   66  66  66   66
Animal Units                33           33   38    40    44   47    47   47  47  47   47



NCRTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
FARM TYPE: SUB-AREA IV (CRISTALINO CENTR0), 80 HA DAIRY/BEEF
Estimated Proceeds (Cr$)
Unit        YEAR 0              YEAR 1
iPri c
CATEGORY                    (Cr$)    Quant.   Value    Quant.  Value
Bulls                    I 3S600            -   _          1      3,600
Culled Cows                2,160        2      4,320       2      4,320
Steers                     1,000        5      5,000       5      5,000
Surplus - Heifers          1,500       2       3,000       2      3,000
Surplus - Milk  2)             2      5,200  10,400       5,200  10,400
TOTAL                                       22,720        _    26,320
CATEGORY                 1          1 YEAR 2                 YEAR 3              YEAR 4           YEAR 5
Culled Cows                2,520       2       5,040       4     10,080       6     15,120      6       15,120
Steers                     1,000        5      5,000       6      6,000       6      6,000      8        8,000
Surplus - Heifers          2,500       -        _         _          _        _                  2       5,000
Surplus - Milk  (1)            2      5,600  11,200       7,200  14,400       8,000 16,000      13,200 26,400
TOTAL                                -      21,240       _     30,480       -     37,120      -       54,520



rO.iTHEAST BAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEV LOPlMET PROJECT - PARAGUACU
80 ha Dairy/Beef Fa!Lr Model
Table 1.12: Cash Flow
Y E A R
Before
Develonient  1         2        3        4         5        6       7        8
l.Total Net In Flow 1/          22,720  22,720   24,840   30,480   37,120   54,520        54,520  54,520   54,520   $4254C
2.Total Out Flow
Investments                   -     81,338                                                                     -
Direct Production Costs
(Without Family Labor)      2,815   2,905    3,453    3,781   4,191    4,634   4,634   4,634   4,634    4,634   4,634    4,634
Total                     2,815  84,243    3,453   3,781   4,191    4,634   4,634   4,634   4,634    4,634   4,634    4,634
3.Net Farm Cash Flow           19,905 -61,523   21,387  26,699  32,929   49,886  49,886  49,886  49,886   49,886  49,886   49,886
4.Family Labor Cost             5,790   5,790   10,140.. 10,140  10,140   10,140  10,140  10,140  10,140   10,140  10,140   10,140
5.Net Farm Benefit             14,115 -67,313   11,247  16,559  22,789   39,746  39,746  39,746  39,746   39,746  39,746   39,746
1/ Excluding on-farm consumption
X H 
rD I-
-IsU:



NORTrHEAST BRAZIL
BAFIIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
80 Ha Dairy/Beef Farm Model
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
0        1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       12
(I)   CASH INFLOW:
1  VALUE OF PRODUCTION                  22.7    22.7    24,8    30.5    37.1    54.5    p4.5    54.5    54.5    54.5    54.5    54.5
2  INVESTMENT LOAN                         0    81.3         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
3  TOTAL INFLOW                *        2ff-7    104.0    24. 8    30.5     37-1     54-*     5        544t5    54.5     5        544.5    54.5
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
4  INVESTMENT COST                         0.   81.3         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
5  OPERATING COST                        2.8      2.9      3.5      3.8      4.2      4.6     4.6       4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      l.6
6   TOTAL OUTFLOW                        2.8    84k2       3.5       3.8     4.2       4.6     4.6      4.6       4.6     4.6      la.6     h.6
(III) NET CASH FLOW:
7   NET CASH FLOW                       19.9    19.8      21-3      26.7    32.9     49.9    49.9       49.9   lt9.9    49.9       49.9    49.9
(IV; DEBT SERVICES: *
8  INVEST. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.             0        0        0        0      9.4    10.1    10.8    11.5    12.3    13.2    14.1              0
9  INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST                0      2.8      5.7      5.7      5.7      5.0      4.3      3.6      2.8      1.9      1.0        0
10.  TurTL DEBT SERVICE                     0      2.8      5.7      5.7    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.l               O
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
11  CASH BALANCE                        19.9      17.0    15.6      21.0    17.0     34.8    34.8      34.8    34.8      34.8      34.8    34. 8
_____________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~---_--_-_- ----- ------__--------___-_--__-__________-__________________@
* Assuming a 10-year investment loan with a 3 year grace period. Interest payment calculations
based on 7% interest rate in effect at time of appraisal.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAGUACU
Cost and Benefit Streams for Ecoromic Analysis
(in efficiency prices and CrS '(vuu)
Y   E   A   R
Incremental                            1            2           3            4             5           6           7            8            9             10           11-30
Benefit Stream
Net Farm Benefit                    -31,373      -43,571      -59,261      -24,920      47,594      83,506      137,934       188,292      219,344      229,078       229,078
Cost Stream
Agric. Extension Services             23,009      26,198       29,789        37,351      44,789      40,309       35,830       31,350        26,871       22,391       22,391
Agric. Experimentation                11.,141      7,568        8,151         8,129       7,973       5,980        3,986           0           0            0            0
Coop. Soc. Support                     2,666       2,010        1,837         1,833       1,410         746          746           746          746          746         0
Mechanization Services                 1,321         0            0             0           0           0            0            0            0            0            0
Storage                                6,357         0            0             0           0           0            0            0            0            0            0
Irrig.Off-farm Investment                0           0          3,311        9,933        5,880         0            0            0            0            0            0
On-farm Investment                 0           0          1,399        4,665      11,789         0             0            0           0             0            0
Pilot Dams                               176         125        1,377         1,393       1,402         0            0            0            0            0            0
Irrig. Stud. & Tech. Assist.             0         4,638        3,449           919         575         0            0            0            0            0            0
Feeder Roads                           5,058      54,516      128,324      119,228         0            0            0             0           0            0            0
Project Administration                 8,090       7,365        7,025         6,620       6,618       5,294        3,970        2,647         1,324         0            0
Project  Evaluation                      786       1,060        1,066         1,065       1,066         853          640           426          213         0             0
Net Benefit Stream                   -90,477   -147,052    -262,765    -233,832    -33,907           30,324       92,762       150,338      187,400      203,151       203,897
Internal Rate of Return: 157,



ANNEX I1
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PARAGUACU
Related Documents Available in Project File
A. Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1. Project Area Summary Data
2. Agricultural and Social Extension
3. Agricultural Research and Seed Production
4. Land Titling Services
5. Rural Credit
6. Land Purchase Credit
7. Mechanization Services and Input Supply
8. Cooperative Society Support
9. Small Scale Irrigation Schemes and Pilot Multi-purpose Small Dams
10.Feeder and Access Roads
ll.ealth and Sanitation
12.Education and Training Component
13.Project Organization, Implementation, and Monitoring and Evaluation
14.Agricultural Development and Production Technology
15.Livestock Development and Production Technology
16.Production Estimates and Marketing, Storage and Prices
17.Crop Producer Income and Employment
18.Economic Analysis
19.Fiscal Analysis



ANNEX 11
Page 2
B. Principal Documents Prepared by State
1. Governo do Estado da Bahia, Plano de Valorizasao dos Recursos
Hidricos da Bacia do Rio Paraguaqu, 1974.
2. PIDERP (Projeto Integrado de Desenvolvimento Rural do Paraguacu),
Plano Operativo, 1978 (2 vols).
3. PIDERP, Programacao Agricola e Pecuaria, May 1977.
4. Secretaria de Transporte e Comunicacoes (Bahia), Plano de Rodovias
da Bacia do Paraguacu - POLONORDESTE, December 1977.






0.    _>\           \           t                   / ' ' / '       ,      )             >
!.a1'w1, a,~~0 :-'I;                                                                                                              '
A.1
r    *                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
~~~O f                j   ~  ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  *.**~~~~~~~~~~***       /~ ~~~~~.;    5
La                                                                                                                                        n]7.-- 






IBRD13285
MARCH 19CR
S..                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~BRkAZ IL
S TATE OF R AHI A
8  8 AZ.                                                 Paraguacu   Basin   Rural  Development  Praject                                                                       1      RCAR'
CAR A-"'                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJ ECT AREA             It   Of                                                                                                                                      // T
"K., C  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io
f                                                '~~~~~*,    .CAFACINAICM                                                          R1A                                                   /N.HA/ 
C...~~~                                                    -      0ARICIRH     7  AHAICARAACA        Aft'''''    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                  J.RRHIRR.T  - d.
ft   .   .  A  II                                                                                  6,       .          **'      ......Q    t?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..               / -          0X~~~~~~~~~~~B.  .,  z
/1                                                                                                         "                    HIACHAOROCA2HFH          0   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yRNA,R.  CCA,RC HA  LAMARACI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RICH0 
CC  'N.              MuSCO NBAO                I                              -                                    Ro(TJDd ,fV   CANCEA[Q/
/ :CWd
TAN                   0
C- d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AIRH                             HIA.RAD                                                                                  /      .            CA
OJ    S,MARE                                                                                                                                                                                        HCS C CICAL,14    0
K7HA                                                 _?LT IHA I  AIC                                                                                                                                       b- 
~~  *---r'  IC    A  '""~~~~                                  ,YMACAJC.BRl-'A~~~~~             CMRRAA,           L24                 HA      B,, SERRA RN                                   CCRUSSERRARRETAc
-A                -,.                               \A                                                               ARgM0ARJCC 
'RSORAHA~~ ~ ~~~~ I I                         N
Sri  7  -  /                                                                                                                                                                  .PARCAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-V.F
C',  IN                    50               .          '.              ."'0 "'/ A                         IICAAAMACCSA.CA                                                                 'R5A   A'                        0       'CIHACC~~'  0  P-Al
~~ITEIEFA                                                                                                                                                                                        S."- If .*\    IACATA
CA,   .  ,CAWr 3.'..-                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \   CNCHIICAAOC
IF HRAR A
Id                                                /
7           -                       AX>         j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HA  H    I   A?HC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SBA VSACA                                                                   1
.'7"QrR->Ir,AC                  ,/                    A,N,   /                      1Q0~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CURAM                                                                P.
'I".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Cdi"O                                             ]O                                                                                                                                                    ST RO A-VES~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>5,1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~   I   0I~~~~~~~~~~~A  ACM  EDARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    RCO  I0SOS
NO ~~~~  N  CAERE          - -0MAN.  AC 0                         N          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         A-         LI-11
0   AIR,',    H'~~~~1A'~~K  "'                  'O'AER
A ACRQO/                                             7                  AMMCCA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 L - "N..
I  o  0,.~~~~~~~~           A                                   I                                     AN                                                               RAMS   SC~~~~~4~AAI  EARE.CITRRA"CRIP,CA
IHICCRRA0                       0               0C.
OH   RA~~~~~~~~~CC/   /                            Q0MARACRS                                                                                PRACCAC IRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PlIT111  LITIER
N...2 . ....,                           .                                                                                                                             I NA0  I  RR SRCIHRCEHI  CR5 I  T,1. I   01 .     EL
10                            C~~~~~~~~~~~
't                                     11                                                                                          1~~~~~~~~51         IRMATRRN ESL.I
AC~~~~~~~ MICH MACARC, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H,IA'CR,,,AC '0~~~~~~~~~~~lA   E  ~ I SIIOl
C            IC)  2     2C            CC           C          *0       RATER CC CE.ARLCC IC AC
I C C -I  C R  A R'. A A'R.  A.    A    ~ H 'C  R C A, AHAC.A RC   C A,A-E                                                                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I_ _ _ _ __T_ _E_ __A_ __D O_ _ __NC O RSA   A E S   C RA NHKS HRE NR A R E R
M,les                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(S






IBRD 13286
410                                                       400                                                       390   FEBRUARY 1978
120~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~30                                                                                                                                           STATE OF BAHIA                                           13
.. ................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     Rve basirioudar
WorldBa3nk'sstaff exclusively for                                                 LL .Hot tropical climate, two medium dry periods (total 5-6 months)
the convenience of the readers of                                                                                            . X..  
the report to which itki attached.     80G0                                               Ni                                             Hot tropical climate, two short dry periods (total 3-4  months)
The denominations used and the,
boundaries shown on this map                                                     .Equatorial climate, marked dry season, coldest month above
do not imply, on the part of the                        0          20        40         60        80        100                            200centigradeC/ric lasfatnatrGase
World Bank and Its affiliates, any                                            K/maIL /siftonMEterGasse
judgment on the legal status of                                               KILMETERS_                                                    er
any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of suchoboundaries.                        0               20               40               60                           Roads
42                                                         41        MILES                                       500          lsohyets (lOOmrnintervols)39



