CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1589 BR
Project Agreement
(Bahia Rural Development Project)
between
STATE OF BAHIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 19, 1978


﻿LOAN NO. 1589 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1978, between the STATE OF BAHIA
(hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven
million dollars ($37,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the State
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained
under the laws of the State; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
Section 2. The State covenants and warrants that the Project
is of paramount importance to the rural development plans of the
State and that it shall fully support the Project by cooperating
with the Borrower in the execution of the Project and by provid-
ing, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources on its part required for the carrying out of the Project
and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
services included in the Project.


﻿-2-
Section 3. The State shall operate and maintain the Technical
Unit with such responsibilities, authority and staff as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4. The State shall cause Companhia de Adubos e
Materiais Agricolas da Bahia to provide mechanization services and
farm input supplies to small-scale farmers in the Project Area
adequate to cover their needs.
Section 5. The State shall cause Companhia de Engenharia
Rural da Bahia to maintain and supervise the use of the dams
included in Part A.7 of the Project.
Section 6. The State shall:
(a) before starting construction of the roads included
in Part C of the Project, enter into contractual arrangements with
the municipalities where such roads will be located whereby such
municipalities will undertake to allocate sufficient funds and
manpower to assist the State in maintaining such roads adequately;
(b) not later than December 31, 1978, prepare and furnish
to the Bank a program to strengthen the road maintenance capacity
of its Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem da Bahia; and
(c) not later than March 31, 1982, complete construction
of all collector roads (about 700 kilometers) complementary to the
feeder roads included in Part C of the Project.
Section 7. The State shall:
(a) give preference, in the employment of education and
training supervisors in the Project Area, to those who have
successfully completed the training or upgrading under Part E.3 of
the Project;
(b) before starting construction of a rural primary school
included in Part E.1 of the Project, enter into contractual
arrangements with the municipality where such school will be
located whereby such municipality will undertake:
(i) to give preference, in the employment of rural pri-
mary school teachers, to those who have success-
fully completed the training or upgrading under
Part E.3 of the Project;


﻿-3-
(ii) to pay such teachers salaries appropriate to
the level of their qualifications according to the
teacher salary scale of the State; and
(iii) to provide such funds as shall be required for the
adequate operation of such school in addition to
those provided by the Borrower and the State.
Section 8. The State shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
the Project.
Section 9. The State shall enter into, and thereafter main-
tain, contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with
such agencies as shall be necessary for purposes of carrying out
Parts A.6, A.8, D and E of the Project; and (b) in respect of Part
A.8 of the Project, with Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos and
with Comiss9o de Financiamento da Produclo for purposes of
applying in the Project Area the Borrower's schemes for advance
purchase of production and minimum price of production.
Section 10. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by the State of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 11. The State shall not take, cause or permit to
be taken, any action that would prevent or interfere with the
execution of the Project or with the performance of the Borrower's
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 12. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 13. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the State thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿Section 14. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
Section 15. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the State:
Secretaria da Agricultura
Centro Administrativo da Bahia
Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Cable address:                           Telex:
Secretaria da Agricultura               071 1245
Salvador, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
Section 16. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by
the Secretario da Agricultura or such other person or persons as
the Secretario da Agricultura shall designate in writing, and the


﻿-5-
State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the author-
ity and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 17. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF BAHIA
By Is/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


