CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1589 BR
Loan Agreement
(Bahia Rural Development Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 19, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1589 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1978, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERrATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter callel the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
The provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "State" means the State of Bahia of the Borrower.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
State and the Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(c) "Project Area" means an area of about 61,000 square
kilometers located in the basin of the Paraguagu River in the
central part of the State and comprising the municipalities listed
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d) "Technical Unit" means the unit established for purposes
of the Project by the State under Decree No. 25.136, dated
February 20, 1976, and with the functions set forth in the
Regulamento approved by Resolution No. 01/76 of June 4, 1976 of
the POLONORDESTE Management Council of the State.
(e) "POLONORDESTE" means the special development program
for the Northeast of Brazil established pursuant to Decreto No.
74794, dated October 30, 1974, of the Borrower.


﻿- 2 -
(f) "Participating Banks" means the banks referred to
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven
million dollars ($37,000,000).
Section 2 02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with local
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including pre-
qualification of bidders for civil works related to feeder roads,
dams, storage units, extension facilities and rural primary
schools.
(b) Bidding and contract documents for the feeder roads
included in Part C of the Project shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central do Brasil is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the engi-
neering design of the feeder roads included in the Project and
preparation of specifications and bidding documents therefor,
in the preparation of a health management information system
and in the administration, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the credit program included in Part B of the
Project (the rural credit program) to be carried out in accordance
with the Lending Policies and Procedures set forth in Schedule 5
hereto. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any modifi-
cation in the interest rates charged under the rural credit
program;
(b) cause Banco Central do Brasil, as the Borrower's finan-
cial agent, to maintain the existing contractual arrangements with
Banco do Brasil, S.A. and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, S.A.
providing for their participation in the carrying out of the


﻿rural credit program, and to enter into and maintain contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank .with such other banks as the
Borrower and the Bank shall agree for purposes of their participa-
tion in the rural credit program.
(c) cause Banco do Brasil, S.A. and Banco do Nordeste do
Brasil, S.A. to participate in the carrying out of the rural
credit program.
(d) ensure that, for a period of not less than five years
after the date of this Agreement, the amounts of seasonal credit
repaid by farmers each year and previously financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan be used for similar purposes in the Project
Area and the amount of seasonal credit made available to farmers
each POLONORDESTE fiscal year is at least equal to the amount made
available for similar purposes during the immediately preceding
POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the
Bank, for approval, any proposed irrigation scheme to be financed
under Part B.1 of the Project and the estimated cost of which
exceeds $250,000 equivalent.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1978, and for purposes of
carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, prepare and furnish to the
Bank:
(i) guidelines permitting financing under Part B.2 of
the Project of plots of land which by themselves or
together with any land owned by the farmer con-
cerned are estimated to yield for each adult family
labor unit to be absorbed in the new farm no less
than the minimum regional annual wage, provided
that in determining the sizes of plots of land
eligible for such financing account be taken of the
managerial and financial capacity of the farmers
concerned and the socio-economic situation in the
area where such plots are located; and
(ii) an administrative plan, including the definition of
the respective responsibilities of the agencies
participating in the carrying out of Part B.2 of
the Project, for expediting land purchases by small


﻿-5-
farmers in the Project Area and the processing of
applications for loans under Part B.2 of the
Project;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such guidelines and plan; and
(c) apply such guidelines and carry out such plan there-
after.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1978, furnish to the Bank
feasibility studies and plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
dams include, in Part A.7 of the Project; and
(b) carry out Part A.7 of the Project in accordance with
such plans.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1978, furnish to the Bank:
(i) the detailed plans for the program included in Part
D.2 of the Project and for the rural health atten-
dant training program included in Part D.3 of the
Project, and
(ii) pre-investment, maintenance and organization
studies in respect of Part D.6 of the Project; and
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such programs and the recommendations made in such studies.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part D.6 of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause to be installed water supply systems only
in villages where water user associations or health societies have
been established and have made a commitment to contribute labor,
materials, or both, to the construction of such water supply
systems, and to collect charges from their users to cover their
operations and maintenance costs, except that in the case of
villages of less than 500 inhabitants users may be required to pay
charges covering initially not less than 50% and gradually
increasing to 100% of such costs during a period of not more than
5 years if the municipalities concerned have agreed to pay for the
remainder of such costs.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1978, develop a rural primary school
curriculum for grades 1-4, satisfactory to the Bank, and introduce
such curriculum in the rural primary schools in the Project Area
by the beginning of the 1980 school year;
(b) not later than June 30, 1979, furnish to the Bank the
studies included in Part E.4 of the Project; afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment on their recommendations; and
prepare the subsequent annual training and other education pro-
grams on the basis of such recommendations and comments; and
(c) by November 30 in each year, furnish to the Bank a
detailed site plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the rural
primary schools included in Part E.1 of the Project and to be
constructed in the immediately following year.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Part F of the Project, and not later than December 31, 1978,
furnish to the Bank a detailed evaluation work program and
monitoring and farm survey procedures, and afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrowo. undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (a) cause to be prepared
and furnished to the Bank, upon its preparation but in any event
not later than four months prior to the beginning of each POLONOR-
DESTE fiscal year, a detailed plan for the carrying out of the
Project during that year; (b) ensure that the Bank is given a
reasonable opportunity to comment thereon, and that such plan is
approved by the Borrower two months prior the POLONORDESTE fiscal
year; and (c) furnish to the Bank such plan as approved.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, but in any event not
later than three months after the end of each quarter, quarterly
reports on the progress made in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause to be maintained records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall cause to be
furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause to be prepared and fur-
nished to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned


﻿-8-
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the Technical Unit and the executing agencies
participating in the Project, including the Participating Banks,
to maintain separate accounts to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
financial situation of the Project;
(b) cause such accounts to be audited annually, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,


﻿- 9 -
by Inspetoria Geral de Finangas of the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower;
(c) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each POLONORDESTE
fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
such accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) cause to be operated
and maintained the facilities and services included in the Project
in conformity with appropriate practices and staff such facilities
with adequate personnel; and (b) provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for those purposes.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the State shall have failed
to perform any covenant, agreement or      ligation of the State
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower and the State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the State, and is legally binding upon the State in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Borrower, the State, their political
subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to
be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of
the Project and to enable the Borrower and the State to perform
all of their respective obligations pursuant to this Agreement and
the Project Agreement, together with all necessary powers and
rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date October 17, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is des-
ignated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco 5
50 Andar
70000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINIFAZ                           611142 M FAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil                 611506 PG F N BR


﻿- 11 -
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Diretoria de Credito Rural
Edificio Banco do Brasil S.A., 60 Andar
Setor Bancario Sul
70000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                 Telex:
BANCENTRAL                        41344
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By Is/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Goods and ser-                4,150,000        36%
vices for Part A.1
of the Project
(2) Goods and services            1,000,000        36%
for Part A.2 of
the Project
(3) Goods and services            2,100,000        36%
for Part A.3 of the
Project
(4) Goods and services              250,000        36%
for Part A.4 of the
Project
(5) Goods and services              250,000        36%
for Part A.5 of
the Project
(6) Goods and services               50,000        36%
for Part A.6 of
the Project
(7) Goods and services              600,000        36%
for Part A.7 of
the Project
(8) Goods and services              150,000        36%
for Part A.8 of
the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(9) Credit Program
(Part B.1 of
the Project)
(a) crop-related              5,000,000        36%
investment
(b)  livestock                1,200,000        36%
investments
(c) seasonal                  3,250,000        36% of amounts
credit                                    expended dur-
ing POLONOR-
DESTE fiscal
year 1978 over
and above
amounts ex-
pended during
POLONORDESTE
fiscal year
1977, and 36%
of amounts ex-
pended in any
subsequent
POLONORDESTE
fiscal year
over and above
amounts ex-
pended during
the immediate-
ly preceding
POLONORDESTE
fiscal year
(10) Goods and ser-                6,750,000        36%
vices for Part C
of the Project
(11) Goods and ser-                1,600,000        36%
vices for Part D
of the Project
(except Part D.2)


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(12) Goods and ser-               2,200,000        36%
vices for Part E
of the Project
(13) Goods and ser-                 250,000        36%
vices for Part F
of the P-oject
(14) Proiect Adminis-             1,200,000        36%
tration and
monitoring
(15) Unallocated                  7,000,000
TOTAL         37,000,000
2. The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1978;
(b) expenditures for Part A.3 of the Project unless the
Instituto de Terras da Bahia of the State has established two new
cadastral review units in Seabra and Maracas;


﻿- 15 -
(c) expenditures for Part A.6 and Part A.8 unless the con-
tractual arrangements referred to in Section 9 of the Project
Agreement in respect of such Parts have been signed;
(d) expenditures for Part A.5 of the Project unless the Bank
has been furnished with a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the selection, preparation and evaluation of irrigation works;
(e) expenditures for Part D of the Project unless the
regional offices in the Project Area of the health agencies of the
State have been adequately staffed and the contractual arrange-
ments referred to in Section 9 of the Project Agreement in respect
of such Part have been signed; and
(f) expenditures for Part E of the Project unless the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 9 of the Project
Agreement in respect of Part E of the Project have been signed,
and expenditures for any rural primary school unless the Bank has
been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that
the site for such school has been acquired.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, provided, however, that the
amount allocated to Category (9) (b) shall not exceed 15% of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (9), and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined, after consul-
tation with the Borrower, that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power cr
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the


﻿- 16 -
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
6.   If the Bank shall have not received the guidelines and
administrative plan referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement
by the date specified therein, an amount of the Loan equivalent to
$800,000 shall be cancelled and the percentage of expenditures to
be financed set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above shall be
reduced to 35%.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to raise the standard of living
of the population of the Project Area by increasing incomes and
basic food supplies, improving health conditions and education
standards, and effective utilization of technical assistance and
credit resources.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Farm Production Services
1.   Strengthening and expansion of extension services
to small farmers, training of extension workers and
development of demonstration plots.
2.   Development of a program of applied crop and
livestock research at four research stations and on
experimental fields, and expansion of the seed
production capacity of the State.
3.   Strengthening and expansion of the land surveying
and titling services of the State in the Project
Area.
4.   A program of assistance to improve the social
and economic organization of small-scale farmers in
the Project Area.
5.   (a) Strengthening and expansion of technical
assistance and training services of the State
to farmers carrying out small-scale irrigation
schemes.
(b) Engineering and feasibility studies for the
construction or rehabilitation of small-scale
irrigation schemes.
6.   Provision of mechanized services for land clearing,
land levelling, drainage works, and construction of
watering points for livestock.
7.   Construction of twelve multi-purpose dams.


﻿- 18 -
8.    Construction and equipping of six produce storage
units with a capacity of about 700 tons each.
Part B:   Credit
1.   A program of credit to small-scale farmers (includ-
ing sharecroppers and tenants) to finance:
(a) crop related investments, including land
clearing, on-farm storage facilities, equip-
ment and tools, establishment of permanent
crops, and on-farm and off-farm irrigation
works, in the Project Area;
(b) livestock   investment, including improvement
of stock and pastures, fencing and watering
points, in the municipalities included in
Group II in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c) seasonal crop production credit.
2.   A program of credit to farmers who do not own
land or i-vn small plots of land to acquire land.
Part C:   Feeder Roads
Construction or rehabilitation of about 1,140 kilometers
of feeder roads in accordance with the design standards
specified in the Annex to this Schedule.
Part D:   Health and Sanitation Services
1.   Construction or rehabilitation and equipping of
about 50 village health posts and 27 health
centers.
2.   A program to control endemic diseases in the
Project Area.
3.   A program to train health workers.
4.   Strengthening of the project execution and super-
vision capacity of the State's health agencies.
5.   Development of a system to provide adequate mainte-
nance of buildings and equipment related to health


﻿- 19 -
services, including provision of spare parts
for such equipment.
6.   Installation of water supply systems in about
70 villages and provision of maintenance equip-
ment and an initial stock of spare parts for such
systems.
Part E:   Education
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of about
100 rural primary schools.
2.   Development of a new curriculum and introduction
of new teaching materials for grades 1-4 in rural
primary schools in the Project Area.
3.   Training or upgrading of about 1,200 rural primary
school teachers and about 260 education and train-
ing supervisors.
4.   Studies on training needs and employment projec-
tions in the Project Area.
5.   Teaching of vocational courses.
6.   Strengthening of the State's coordinating unit
for educational activities in the Project Area.
Part F:   Evaluation
A program to evaluate the progress of the preceding
parts of the Project and the economic, social and
educational benefits derived from it.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1983.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Feeder Roads
included in Part C of the Project
Class                   A                B              C
(about           (about         (about
218 km)          517 km)        404 km)
Approximate traffic       Over 40          20-40         Up to 20
levels              vehicles         vehicles       vehicles
per day          per day        per day
Formation width*          6.00m            4.50m**        4.50m**
Maximum gradient***     12% (14%)         12% (14%)      12% (14%)
Desirable maximum
gradient length       300m             300m           300m
Cross-slope and maximum
super-elevation         5%               5%             5%
Gravel thickness          0.15m            0.10m           None
Minimum curve radius    50m (30m)         30m (25m)        None
Minimum site stopping
distance           70m (50m)            40m            40m
Minimum culvert
diameter             0.80m            0.80s          0.80m
Bridge characteristics    Double           Single         Single
lane             lane           lane
Bridge design loading   Class 36          Class 36       Class 36
*    Net of widening in curves and gutters.
**   Passing bays are to be provided where needed.
*** Figures in brackets indicate absolute limits which may be
used in exceptional cases. Special attention shall be given
to drainage and surfacing for grades steeper than 8%.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1982
through   March 1, 1993                      1,540,000
On September 1, 1993                              1,580,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.50%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             3.00%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.50%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Municipalities included
in the Project Area
Group T                          Group II
Antonio Cardoso                   lacu
Castro Alves                      Iramaia
Santo Estevac                     Itaete
Ipecaeta                         Maracas
Abaira                            Marcionilio Souza
Andarai                          Milagres
Barra da Estiva                  Planaltino
Boninal                           Santa Terezinha
Cafarnaum                        Baixa Grande
Ibicoara                         Boa Vista do Tupim
Iraquara                         Ibiquera
Lencois                          Ipira
Mucuge                            Itaberaba
Palmeiras                        Lagedinho
Piata                            Macajuba
Seabra                           Mairi
Souto Soares                     Mundo Novo
Utinga                            Piritiba
Wagner                           Riachao do Jacuipe
Anguera                           Rui Barbosa
Candeal                          Tapiramuta
Feira de Santana
Ichu
Lamar'o
Santa Barbara
Serra Preta
Serrinha
Tanquinho


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Credit shall be provided exclusively to small-scale farmers
(including sharecroppers and tenants) in the Project Area.
2.   Each loan under Part B.1 of the Project shall be repaid over
(a) not more than 8 years, including a grace period of not more
than 4 years, in case such loan will finance semi-fixed invest-
ments; or (b) not more than 12 years, including a grace period of
not more than 6 years, in case such loan will finance fixed
investments.
3.   Each loan under Part B.2 of the Project to purchase land
shall be repaid over not more than 20 years, including a grace
period of not more than 6 years.
4.   The principal amount outstanding of each loan shall bear
interest at the rate applicable to POLONORDESTE loans for similar
purposes.
5.   The aggregate principal amount outstanding of loans for
working capital and agricultural and livestock investment to any
individual farmer shall not exceed the equivalent of 100 times the
highest valor de referencia in Brazil. No real security will be
required for loans under 50 times the highest valor de referencia.
6.   Participating banks shall be required to make their best
efforts to channel credit through agricultural cooperatives
operating in the Project Area.
For purposes of this Schedule, "valor de referencia" means
the monetary correction factor periodically established by the
Borrower pursuant to its Law No. 6205, dated April 29, 1975, and
Decree No. 75704, dated May 8, 1975.


