Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11485
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB IV) PROJECT
(LOAN 1817-KE)
DECEMBER 31, 1992
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kenya Shilling (KSh) = 100 cents
FY79: US $ - KSh 7.33
FY80: US $ - KSh 7.42
FY81: US $ - KSh 9.05
FY82: US $ - KSh 10.92
FY83: US $ - KSh 13.31
FY84: US $ - KSh 14.41
FY85: US $ - KSh 16.43
FY86: US $ - KSh 16.23
FY87: US $ - KSh 16.45
FY88: US $ - KSh 17.75
FY89: US $ - KSh 20.57
FY90: IJS $ - KSh 22.92
FY91: US $ - KSh 27.51
FY92: US $ - KSh 35.69
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DFC      -   Development Finance Corporation
DFI      -   Development Finance Institution
EADB    -   East African Development Bank
GOK      -   Government of Kenya
ICDC     -   Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB      -   Industrial Development Bank
ISAC     -   Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
NBFI    -   Non-bank Financial Institution
PRPC     -   Parastatal Reform Programme Committee
FISCAL YEAR (1DB)
January 1 - December 31 (until FY86)
June 30 - July 1 (starting FY87)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of DIrector-General
Oporatlons Evaluation
December 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Kenya - Fourth Industrial
Development Bank Project (IDB IV) (Loan 1817-KE)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Kenya - Fourth
Industrial Development Bank Project (IDB IV) (Loan 1817-KE)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The main objectives of the loan - institution building and promotion of viable and export-
oriented investments - were not met. IDB has failed to develop an appropriate organizational structure,
systems and procedures. It has not been able to operate on sound banking principles and financial
discipline. Its project selection has not been rational, due to perfunctory economic analyses and external
interventions in its decision-making process. Unable to extricate itself from past investment decisions,
iDB now faces intractable portfolio problems. Sustainability is unlikely. The overall outcome of the
project is rated as unsatisfactory.
The Bank's performance has left much to be desired. Having been involved in successive
operations, it exercised poor judgment in going ahead with IDB IV and, having done so, it remained
an inactive bystander in the face of IDB's slow disintegration.
The PCR is comprehensive and of good quality. It provides reasons for the poor operational
results, and points out deficiencies in both IDB's and the Bank's performance.
Attachment
This document has a retrkted distnbution and may be used by recpieutts oly in the perfonnance of their official dutie. Its
coutents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (tDB IV) PROJECT
(LOAN 1817-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                           . .iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                          .......            1
1. Project Identity  ..........................................                                                  1
2. Background and Sectoral Context ...............................                                               1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ..............................                                            2
4. Project Design and Organization  ...............................                                              2
5. Project Implementation  .....................................                                                 3
6. Major Results of the Project ..................................                                               5
7. Project Sustainability   ......................................                                               6
8. Bank Performance  ........................................                                                    7
9. Borrower Performance  .....................................                                                   8
10. Project Relationship  .......................................                                                 9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ......                                                     10
Project Design and Organization  ...............................                                            10
Project Implementation  .....................................                                               11
Sub-Loans  ............                   .................................                                 11
Major Results ...........................................                                                   12
Project Sustainability   ......................................                                             13
Reform  and Restructure   ....................................                                              13
Lessons Learnt ..........................................                                                   14
Action Programme for Restructuring/Divestiture of Industrial Parastatals
and Financial Restructuring of Industrial Development Bank Limited .... ....                              14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans .......................................                                    18
2. Project Timetable  ........................................                                   19
3. Loan Disbursements .......................................                                    20
4. Mission Data  ...........................................                                     21
5. Resource Mobilization (Foreign Exchange) by IDB ....................                          22
6. Sub-projects Financed under IDB IV .............................                              23
7. Lending Operations, FY80-FY92 ...............................                                 25
8. IDB Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1981-1992 .......................                           26
9. IDB Sectoral Distribution of Loan Portfolio  ........................                         27
10. IDB Balance Sheets, FY80-FY92 .28
11. IDB Income Statements, FY80-FY92 .30
12. IDB Source and Use of Funds Statements, FY80-FY92 .31
13. IDB Financial Ratios, FY80-FY92 .32
14. IDB Evolution of Staffing, 1981-1992 .33
15. IDB Equity Portfolio and Categorization by the Parastatal Reform
Programme Committee .34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB IV) PROJECT
(LOAN 1817-KE)
PREFACE
1.     This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) Project
of Kenya. This was the fourth IDB Project financed by the Bank. The loan was approved by the Board
on March 27, 1980. The loan was closed on December 31, 1988, after making three extensions at the
request of the Government of Kenya (GOK) and the Borrower (IDB). US$1.45 million of the loan
amount was undisbursed and canceled. The final loan amount, US$28.55 million, was fully disbursed
and the last disbursement was made on September 13, 1988.
2.     This PCR was prepared by the Public and Private Enterprise Division of the Eastern Africa
Department, Africa Region.  It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project
Agreements, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the GOK and the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (tDB IV) PROJECT
(LOAN 1817-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.     This project was implemented by the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) which had previously
been involved with three Bank/IDA lending operations. The objectives of the project, which were to
be achieved through IDB's financing industrial development sub-projects were threefold.  First, the
project would support industrial development in Kenya in line with the Government's Fourth
Development Plan (1979-1983). Second, specific emphasis would be provided to expansion of public
and private investment in export-oriented or import-substituting industries, particularly in areas outside
Nairobi and Mombasa. Third, the project would support strengthening of IDB's internal procedures
and improvement in its profitability.
Implementation Experience
2.     The project implementation experience was reviewed from two perspectives.
(a)  The status of the various sub-projects funded under the project was reviewed (para 5.3); IDB's
performance against the above three goals was not satisfactory. First, though loan funds were
utilized to provide term financing for medium- and large-scale manufacturing enterprises it was
at a much slower pace than estimated at appraisal; three extensions of the closing date were
required before IDB was able to disburse 95% of the loan amount. This was attributable
primarily the world recession and the sluggish economy in Kenya which reduced demand for
industrial loans. Second, of the companies to which loans were disbursed, 12 were put into
receivership. Third, about 45% of the disbursements were for import substitution sub-projects
and 49% of the disbursements were to sub-projects based in rural areas. Fourth, the slower
pace of lending was accompanied by reduced portfolio quality as subprojects were affected by
time and cost overruns.
(b)  Second, the performance of the overall portfolio of the institution was also reviewed (para 5.4
and 5.5); there was a decline in approvals, a high level of arrears in the portfolio and distress
in all major sectors of the portfolio. These in turn led to liquidity problems which required
high, yet inadequate, levels of provisioning that eroded IDB's profitability and viability.
Results
3.     In summary, 95% of the total amount of the loan (US$30 million) was disbursed (although
three years beyond the programmed horizon), 49% of disbursements were to projects in rural locations
and 45% was committed for import substitution subprojects. The results were unsatisfactory since of
the companies to whom the 29 subloans were disbursed, 12 have been put under receivership (leading
to sale or liquidation), 11 have fully repaid their loans or refinanced them through local borrowing, 1
did not start production due to lack of working capital resulting from cost overruns during



- iv -
implementation and 5 are still active (a majority of these having had their loans rescheduled). Given
the unsatisfactory operating performance of the firms, the impact on the real sectors of the
economy-industrial value added, exports and employment was probably limited as well.
Sustainability
4.     The majority of the funds disbursed under the project went to enterprises which themselves
became non-viable; sustainability of economic and social benefits is low. Further, this non-viability and
consequent non-repayment of loans led to deterioration in IDB's overall portfolio. In 1989, GOK and
the Bank included funding for a consultants study of parastatal restructuring under the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit (Credit 1927-K(E). A broad restructuring plan for financial parastatals covering
revised mandates, funding, strategy, organization and the lending/investment process within these
institutions was completed in October 1989. In 1990, further funding was provided through the
Financial Parastatals Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2147-KE) for technical support for the
implementation of restructuring plans for IDB (and another DFI, ICDC), design of corporate workouts
for client firms and training for staff of the two DFIs.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.     The project was not successful in achieving its objectives. The following lessons have been
learned from IDB's performance, and from the Bank's performance in monitoring IDB:
(a)  The macro economic environment in which the project was to be undertaken was an important
variable meriting explicit consideration as was the absorptive capacity of the nascent
entrepreneurial class.
(b)  An institutional development program that would have strengthened the management and
organizational structures, procedures and staff skills of the financial institution should have
been implemented prior to or simultaneously with the project. IDB was unable to manage
many of the internal and marketing processes that are critical to the successful commercial
operation. This was demonstrated by the fact that IDB was unable to mobilize domestic
currency, keep and attract old clients and retain its staff.
(c)  In the initial stages of IDB's distress, the Bank may not have been proactive enough at problem
solving though it did closely monitor the situation through regular supervision missions.
Though the project had been classified a "problem-project" almost since its effective date
(Table 4), insufficient corrective measures seem to have been taken to stabilize the situation.
The Bank did, however, begin the process of restructuring IDB through an active dialogue with
the Government of Kenya and through funding under the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
(Credit 1927-KE) and the Financial Parastatals Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2147-KE).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB IV) PROJECT
(LOAN 1817-KE)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prooect Identity:
Project Name     Industrial Development Bank (IDB Project)
Loan Number       1817-KE
RVP Unit         Africa Region, Country Department II
Country          Kenya
Sector           Finance; DFC
2. Backeround and Sectoral Context
2.1    Since independence in 1963, Kenya has given high priority to industrial development. Kenya
created an environment conducive to attract predominantly import-substitution industries, especially
those producing final consumer goods.  Remarkable achievements were registered in industry,
particularly during the first decade after independence. Despite this success, there was growing concern
in the mid 80s that: (i) import-substitution industrialization might be reaching the limits of efficiency,
(ii) the economy might be becoming highly import dependent, and (iii) employment was not expanding
rapidly enough.
2.2    The Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) recognized the need for a change in the main thrust
of industrialization strategy and to this effect the following objectives were set:
(a) to encourage greater efficiency in local industrial production and to improve international
competitiveness of Kenyan manufactured goods; and
(b)  to promote the development of export oriented industries.
To achieve these objectives, the Government of Kenya (GOK) needed to restructure the trade regime
over the Plan period, including (a) rationalization of tariffs, (b) elimination of quantitative restrictions
and "no objection certificates," (c) phasing out of duty concessions to new industries, and (d) expansion
of promotional and incentive schemes for exports. It was envisaged that implementation of these
measures would be gradual.
2.3    Consistent with the GOK's industrial development objectives presented in the Fourth
Development Plan, IDB's overall lending strategy aimed at financing medium to large projects
generally, and included proposed sectoral distribution objectives for private, public, foreign and Kenyan
ownership, regionally balanced industrialization, and export-oriented and efficient import-substitution
industries. This strategy was also expected to lead to improved income distribution and employment
generation.



- 2 -
3. Project Objectives and DescriRtion
3.1    Project Objectives. The project concept was based on previous IDB projects (Loans 946-KE,
1148-KE, and 1438-KE) (Table 1). Its main objectives were to (i) support the GOK in realizing its
industrial development policies by encouraging new industrial investment, Kenyan ownership of
industry, industrial efficiency and greater export orientation, (ii) develop IDB as a vehicle for the
provision of term and equity financing in Kenya, particularly for foreign exchange requirements, to
medium and large scale enterprises, and (iii) strengthen IDB's internal organization and procedures, and
improve profitability. To support these objectives, the Bank provided a loan of US$30 million.
3.2    Project Components. The project had one component: US$30 million to help finance the
foreign exchange component of IDB's investments in medium and large scale industrial projects in
Kenya. Subsequently, in January 1984, the Bank agreed to reserve US$5 million of the total US$30
million loan for financing imported raw material subloans to subprojects meeting minimum new foreign
exchange benefit criteria.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    Based on the subproject pipeline at appraisal, and new subprojects coming into the pipeline,
IDB's total approvals were expected to grow at an annual average of 12% over the 1979-83 period.
On this basis, IDB's resource gap during the period between mid-1980 to the end of 1982, was
estimated at about US$46.3 million, of which US$30 million, representing 65% of IDB's needs in
foreign exchange, was to be financed under this project. The balance of US$16.3 million was expected
to be secured by IDB through additional lines of credit from other donors. While the project design
methodology reflected substantial demand for investment funds, actual demand turned out to be much
lower. More consideration should have been given to the following factors:
(a)  The Kenyan economy, and the manufacturing sector in particular, underwent significant
expansion during the 1970s. At the time of this loan, the "boom" was losing steam.
(b)  Starting from the latter part of the 1970s, oil price increases contributed significantly to bring
about a period of global recession. World economic conditions started affecting Kenya.
(c)  Moreover, the country was experiencing prolonged drought, a continuing decline of coffee
prices and rising petroleum prices; and balance of payments appeared likely to be major
constraints on Kenyan growth over the next few years. The prevailing economic environment,
therefore, was not conducive to credit demand. Thus, the economic reality in which IDB was
operating was not sufficiently recognized and attempts were not satisfactorily made to scale
down the amount of the loan.
(d)  In designing the project, greater attention should have been paid to the low absorptive capacity
of IDB and Kenya's nascent entrepreneurial class. This was a fourth loan with which the Bank
financed IDB. Commitments and disbursements for all three loans (US$35 million) proceeded
more slowly than anticipated and US$1.8 million was canceled from the third loan (1438-KE).
The second loan (1148-KE) required a one-year extension of the closing date for full
disbursement.  Although IDB's performance in implementing the preceding loans was
satisfactory, there were clear signs that the fast pace of historical growth had placed increasing
strain on the institution and the quality of its work. Decline in the quality of its appraisal and
supervision of subprojects, poor profitability record and a high level of arrears, high



- 3 -
administrative expenses, low spread on operations and poor collection procedures were of
concern.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    The project was a follow-up project and it started on time. Despite this, implementation was
not satisfactory. IDB confronted substantial problems, many of which stemmed from the recessionary
domestic and international economic climate, and poor quality of appraisal and supervision which
resulted in continuing deterioration in IDB's collection performance. The commitment date and the
closing date of the loan were extended three times (Table 2), and disbursement under Loan 1817-KE
officially ended on December 31, 1988 (Table 3). The undisbursed balance of US$1.449 million was
canceled effective January 24, 1989.
5.2    The project implementation experience was reviewed from two perspectives based on the data
provided by the borrower. First, the status of the various sub-projects funded under the project was
reviewed; the data available for this review is extremely limited and does not allow for an in-depth
analysis. Second, the performance of the overall portfolio of the institution was also reviewed; given
the lack of the data for the project itself and since the project subloans were an integral part of the
overall portfolio, this analysis provides valuable insights into the implementation experience.
5.3    Subloans. Table 6 contains the available data on the subloans and indicates that:
(a)  Twenty-nine (29) subloans were approved and $28.551 million were disbursed. At appraisal,
it had been estimated that IDB was financing on average about 30% of investment cost of all
projects; the data does not allow confirmation of this estimate. The eleven subloans which
were above free limit (of $0.8 million) ranged between US$0.988-4.536 million; the rest
ranged from US$0.099 million to US$0.580 million. Four sub-projects, totaling US$2.861
million, were made as short-term imported raw material loans. All subloans had initial
maturities of up to ten years although, in some cases, this was extended due to loan
rescheduling.
(b)  Of the companies to whom the 29 subloans were disbursed, 12 have been put under
receivership (leading to sale or liquidation), 11 have fully repaid their loans or refinanced them
through local borrowing, 1 did not start production due to lack of working capital resulting
from cost overruns during implementation and 5 are still active (a majority of these having had
their loans rescheduled).
(c)  Significant cost overruns were experienced during implementation for the majority of the
projects on account of delays in completing legal documentation coupled with changes in the
exchange rate. Overruns were usually financed with funds intended for meeting working
capital requirements (equity and/or short-term loans and over-drafts), thus subjecting projects
to liquidity strains before commercial operations could begin.
(d)  Compliance with loan objectives regarding reduced import dependency was disappointing. 12
projects depended heavily on imports while 15 relied fully or partially on local raw materials.
(e)  IDB's projects continue to be located in urban areas, particularly Nairobi and Mombasa, with
only 49% of the disbursements to projects located in the rural areas. 57% of the amount
approved went for new projects, while the remainder of funds have been used for expansion
and modernization projects or imported raw material loans.



- 4 -
5.4    Portfolio Performance (FY80-FY92). The overall portfolio displayed the same problems
prevalent in the project-financed subloans.
(a)  Approvals. As indicated in Table 7, during 1980, when the project commenced foreign
currency loans of 190 mm KSh (or US$25.6 million at the then exchange rate) were made.
Smaller approvals were made for domestic currency loans (18.7 mm KSh or US$2.5 million)
and equity investments (6.9 mm KSh or US$0.9 million). During the next decade, loan and
equity approval levels demonstrated great volatility:
(i) Foreign currency loan approvals peaked at 225.8 mm KSh (US$25.0 million) in FY84
and then dropped precipitously to 47.9 mm KSh (US$3.3 million). A recovery up to
268.2 mm KSh (US$15.1 million) in FY88 was followed by another decline up to
33.4 mm KSh (US$1.5 million) in FY90.
(ii) From 1985 to 1988, IDB undertook a moderate volume of lending in imported raw
materials including, as mentioned earlier, US$2.86 million from the project.
(iii) Domestic currency loans have almost completely stopped since FY82 given IDB's
liquidity crisis (para 5.5(a)).
(iv) Equity investments over the period FY80-FY92 were minimal with less than
12 mm KSh being invested.
Commitments and disbursements tended to lag approvals, as may be expected from the delays
in sub-project implementation discussed in para 5.3 (c); from currently available data, the
annual percentages of undisbursed approvals cannot be compared.
(b)  Outstanding Arrears and Collection Performance. By FY81, 49% of the projects were affected
by outstanding arrears over 3 months; the amount outstanding over 3 months was, however,
lower at 18% of the portfolio (Table 8). This situation deteriorated further; between FY83-92,
between 65-85% of the projects had arrears over 3 months. The amounts ranged between 200
mm KSh to 375 mm KSh between FY83-89 and ranged between 20-35% of total outstanding.
In FY90, arrears over 3 months increased substantially to over 956 mm KSh (93% of
outstanding. By FY92, the situation had improved somewhat with about 69% of total
outstanding being for arrears over 3 months and 57% of the projects still affected by arrears.
Collection performance on outstanding falling due within the fiscal year improved from around
75% in FY83-84 up to 90% and above in all FYs up to FY92 (except for a one-year decline
in FY91) due to more intensive project monitoring and arrears follow-up efforts. IDB found,
however, that many of its strongest projects were prepaying their loans (in order to avoid
foreign exchange risk), thus leaving IDB weaker projects that were uncollectible. As a
percentage of total outstanding due, the collection performance was not very high ranging
between 20-35% between FY83-90 before declining to 12-14% in FY91-92.
(c)  Sectoral Distribution of Loan Portfolio is presented in Table 9. The data provided by the
borrower should be viewed with two caveats. First, there are some discrepancies between the
number of projects presented in Table 8 (83) and Table 9 (50). Second, outstanding amounts
in Table 9 include principal and interest in arrears. IDB's portfolio shows a wide range of sub-
sectors including: tourism (35% of portfolio), textiles (13%), leather and agro-industries (9%
each). All these sub-sectors have many troubled projects; in tourism, outstanding account for
83% of portfolio and for textiles and leather it encompasses 100% of the portfolio.



- 5 -
5.5    The impact of the portfolio problems on IDB's viability during FY80-92 are discussed further
below based on the data presented in the Tables on: Balance Sheets (Table 10), Income Statements
(Table 11), Sources and Uses of Funds (Table 12) and Summary of Financial Ratios (Table 13):
(a)  The primary problem for IDB has been illiquidity arising out of inability to collect back the
funds onlent. This has made it difficult to fund ongoing expenses as well as to repay its debts.
This was not readily apparent from its financial statements in the early 1980s. IDB did not
suspend accrual of interest income on any debt, even if no payment had been received.
Starting in 1983, the suspension of income commenced only on debt outstanding for more than
24 months. The appraisal report does not make any reference to requiring IDB to implement
a policy in this regard; under current Bank guidelines for financial institutions (OD 8.30),
accrual of interest income must cease on non-performing assets (assets on which amounts due
remain unpaid for between 90 to 180 days). Implementation of such a policy would have
considerably reduced income shown in IDB's books; in FY92, interest arrears receivable are
512.7 mm KSh.
(b)  Being unable to collect its debts, IDB commenced building up its provision for bad debts. The
appraisal report contains a requirement that by December 31, 1982, the provision should be
at least 3% of the portfolio. However, given the magnitude of the problem, this was extremely
inadequate. By the end of FY92, IDB's provision for bad debts stood at almost 600 mm Ksh
or over 50% of loan and equity portfolio and loan repayments in arrears. Of this amount, 222
mm KSh were provisions on the current portfolio (about 40% of portfolio) and 378 mm KSh
were provisions against loan repayments in arrears (60% of arrears).
(c)  IDB's problems are reflected in many of its financial ratios: liquidity problems show up in the
current ratio (which hovered around 1 throughout the period), earnings performance shows in
the low net profit/total average assets ratio which went over 1 % only in three FYs and was
largely negative otherwise (this despite the recording of uncollectible income) and its inability
to raise equity funds shows in the increasing long-term debt to equity ratio which increased
from 1.4 in FY80 to 4.7 in FY92.
5.6    Risk Assessment. There were no particular risks identified in the SAR other than those
normally associated with DFC lending. However, IDB was going to implement a consolidation program
in order to improve its internal quality control and supervision of existing projects. This program
would result in a better selection of projects through a more critical review of the risks associated with
them and requiring that a larger portion of equity investment be raised by sponsors. The risk of not
implementing the consolidation program was not considered serious. A major project risk that was not
considered was the impact of a devaluation on the borrowers to whom the foreign exchange risk had
been passed on and who were also largely dependent on imports for production of their outputs.
6. Major Results of the Project
6.1    In summary, 95% of the total amount of the loan (US$30 million) was disbursed (although
three years beyond the programmed horizon), 49% of disbursements were to projects in rural locations
and 45% was committed for import substitution subprojects. The results were unsatisfactory since of
the companies to whom the 29 subloans were disbursed, 12 have been put under receivership (leading
to sale or liquidation), 11 have fully repaid their loans or refinanced them through local borrowing, 1
did not start production due to lack of working capital resulting from cost overruns during
implementation and 5 are still active (a majority of these having had their loans rescheduled).  The



unsatisfactory operating performance of the firms also indicates that impact on the real sectors of the
economy-industrial value added, exports and employment were limited.
6.2    The results of the project on IDB were not positive either. Though, as shown in Table 5, IDB
had been relatively successful in mobilizing external resources from official sources for its foreign
currency lending requirements, it was unable to deploy these resources to effective use since the
majority of the portfolio was invested in companies that became unviable. Further, due to the
availability of foreign currency resources, a lesser focus was adopted on mobilizing local currency
resources except for some additional share subscriptions from its existing shareholders. This situation
was further exacerbated once the portfolio began to deteriorate since, in light of IDB's profitability and
portfolio, such resources were even less readily available.
6.3    Finally, from an institutional development standpoint too, the project was not very successful.
At the time of project appraisal (1979-80), the process of increasing emphasis on accelerating the flow
of approvals and consequent decline in the quality of appraisal had commenced.  The project was,
hence, also designed to provide Bank support for IDB which entaied encouraging IDB to embark on
a concolidation period which would strengthen appraisal standards in order to improve its future
lending. Consolidation was not properly implemented, and as a result, limited success was achieved
at making IDB an efficient and financially viable DFI.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    As discussed in para 5.3 (b), the majority of the funds disbursed under the project went to
enterprises which themselves became non-viable. Further, this non-viability and consequent non-
repayment of loans led to deterioration in IDB's overall portfolio, outstanding and collection
performance (para 5.4) and to a situation where IDB's viability itself became a major issue (para 5.5).
7.2    Another critical element in IDB's sustainability is its staff. As shown in Table 14, as the
institution's financial situation deteriorated, there was an increasing number of resignations as many of
the senior and experienced professionals had left the institution either for better remuneration or
dissatisfaction with the way the institution was managed. Senior staff members were very few and were
overstretched. Junior staff whose number was not that significant were required to do the appraisal and
monitoring of the projects. The outcome was poor job performance.
7.3    It was with serious concern regarding the viability of IDB and related development finance
institutions in Kenya that, in 1989, GOK and the Bank included funding for a consultants study of the
sector under the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 1927-KE). This study and complementary
information from sector studies came to many of the same conclusions as have already been discussed
: policy related and strategic deficiencies in their roles, financing arrangements that incorporate
asset/liability mismatches, internal structural flaws and inadequate information, control and analytical
processes which circumscribed their effectiveness.   A broad restructuring plan covering revised
mandates, funding, strategy, organization and the lending/investment process within these institutions
was completed in October 1989 in compliance with conditions for the release of the second tranche of
the ISAC. Recognizing the critical nature of the restructuring plan in terms of restoring financial
viability to the DFIs, in 1990, the Government and IDA developed the Financial Parastatals Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 2147-KE). The three components of this project are: to provide technical
support for the implementation of restructuring plans for IDB (and another DFI), design of corporate
workouts for client firms and training for staff of the two DFIs.



- 7 -
7.4    The status of work funded through the TA credit is that consultants have been hired and
submitted a draft report which is being reviewed by the Government, the DFIs and IDA. The
restructuring plan is well underway and the following major activities and their status are provided
below:
(a)  Revision of DFI mandate. Implementation was completed but treatment of Social
Projects (i.e. projects undertaken on non-commerical grounds) has not yet been
defined;
(b)  Restructuring of IDB. Implementation is in an advanced stage and standard policies
and operating procedures have been developed by the consultants in consultation with
IDB and have been sent to the Government for review and approval; and
(c)  Financial Restructuring.
i) Management of Exchange risk is in an advanced stage of implementation;
ii) Implementation of sub-project loan rescheduling was inadequate because of the mismatch
between IDB receipts and payment;
iii) Little action has been taken to carry out the corporate restructuring plan;
iv) Implementation of parastatal divestiture and non-parastatal companies was unsatisfactory.
Out of 22 parastatals, only 7 have been approved by PRPC for divestiture and only 1
was sold and none of the 19 non-parastatal companies under receivership has been
completely liquidated or sold; and
v) Financial restructuring of IDB needs to be undertaken. Since its equity is currently
negative, IDB needs to be recapitalized.
Hence, even though restructuring has commenced, tough decisions lie ahead (i.e. liquidation of
companies, unveiling of hidden losses, drastic recapitalization and/or reduction of staff/activity, etc.)
which will require substantial political will to take and implement.
8. Bank Performance
8.1    Despite the project's deficient financial and investment performance, IDB has been an essential
institution, and the Bank's contribution to IDB's establishment and growth, both in an advisory capacity
and as a lender, was commendable. However, the Bank's endeavor on institutional development has
not been fully effective to address the weaknesses in IDB's operations and to have any impact on the
overall financial environment. The magnitude of IDB's arrears, bad debt losses and low collection
ratios demonstrate weaknesses resulted from lack of taking heed to the lending environment and the
deficient appraisal processes.
8.2    The Bank's supervision of the project was not effective.  Between 1980 and 1988, 12
supervision missions, almost one every six months, visited IDB (Table 4) and held discussions with
GOK and other relevant institutions on IDB's performance and problems; nevertheless, the Bank was
unable to institute significant change in the deteriorating operating and financial performance of IDB.
These missions kept close track of IDB's overall performance and especially of its collections,
supervision and appraisal. Based on the supervision missions' findings, IDB (directly) and GOK (by



- 8 -
copies of the letters sent to IDB) were cautioned about the continually deteriorating operating
performances of IDB. As there was no sign of significant improvement, the project continued to be
classified as a problem project until it was closed in 1988 (Table 4). With the benefit of hindsight we
may be led to think that the Bank was concerned only with consideration of a possible fifth line of credit
for IDB. However, the Bank had already begun to move on the issues of restructuring IDB (and other
DFIs) in the context of the ISAC and, in 1989, a Restructuring Plan was being implemented as part of
the tranche release conditionality for that project. By 1990, the Bank was even more closely involved
in the restructuring process for IDB by funding a Financial Parastatals Technical Assistance Project.
8.3    Lessons Learned. Although 95.2% of the total amount of the Loan was disbursed, from the
Bank's perspective, the project did not meet its objectives. The following important lessons have been
learned from IDB's performance and from the Bank's performance in monitoring IDB:
(a)  The macro economic environment in which the project was to be undertaken was an important
variable meriting explicit consideration as was the absorptive capacity of the nascent
entrepreneurial class.
(b)  An institutional development program that would have strengthened the management and
organizational structures, procedures and staff skills of the financial institution should have
been implemented prior to or simultaneously with the project. This is especially important for
state-owned enterprises which are required to compete in markets if they have not previously
been exposed to commercial principles. In IDB's case, it was unable to manage many of the
internal and marketing processes that are critical to the successful commercial operation. This
was demonstrated by the fact that IDB was unable to mobilize domestic currency, keep and
attract old clients and retain its staff.
(c)  In the initial stages of IDB's distress, the Bank may not have been proactive enough at problem
solving though it did closely monitor the situation through regular supervision missions.
TMough the project had been classified a "problem-project" almost since its effective date
(Table 4), insufficient corrective measures seem to have been taken to stabilize the situation.
The Bank did, however, begin the process of restructuring IDB (and other distressed DFIs in
Kenya) by funding a consultant study under the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit
1927-KE) and requiring implementation of a restructuring plan prior to release of second
tranche of that loan in 1989. In 1990, further funding for the restructuring process for IDB
(and ICDC, another DFI) was provided under a Financial Parastatals Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 2147-KE).
9. Borrower Performance
9.1    IDB was successful in mobilizing resources, particularly foreign currency, and invested in term
loans and equity portfolios in medium- and large-scale sub-projects and generated social and economic
benefits (Table 5). However, (i) sub-projects were affected by cost and time overruns which reduced
the economic benefits; (ii) the reliance of most sub-projects selected was on using imported raw
materials, and this would not stimulate production and using locally produced raw materials; and (iii)
location of sub-projects did not produce balanced growth and distribute the social and economic benefits
because over 50% of disbursements were to sub-projects in Nairobi/Mombasa.
9.2    An important deficiency in IDB's performance was the search for a greater business volume
that took precedence over selectivity in lending. The quality of subloan appraisals had been declining
over the years. Appraisals were done without paying adequate attention to the competitiveness of



- 9 -
projects, market, pricing and risk assessment. Following the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement it
was agreed that IDB would use the first two to three years for embarking on a period of consolidation.
The consolidation program was not implemented as expected, contributing to the continuing
deterioration of the operational performance of IDB.
10. Project Relationship
10.1   The relationship between GOK and the Bank was satisfactory. The same can be said about the
relationship between the Bank and IDB. IDB was cooperative and willing to accept the Bank's
recommendations. Overall, it had satisfactory rapport, but it was structurally unable to implement the
Bank's recommendations.



- 10-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     As stated in the Project Review by the World Bank, the main objectives of the project were:
a)  To support the Government of Kenya in realizing its industrial development policies by
encouraging new industrial investment, Kenyan ownership of industry, industrial efficiency and
greater export orientation;
b)  To develop IDB as a vehicle for the provision of term and equity financing, particularly for
foreign exchange requirements, to medium and large scale enterprises; and
c)   To strengthen IDB's internal organization and procedures, and improve profitability.
It is against these broad objectives that the evolution and implementation of the project has to be
evaluated.
Project Design and Organization:
2.     As stated in the Report, IDB's credit requirement was based on projected requirements for sub-
projects in the pipeline and those new ones which were expected to come into the pipeline. It was then
projected that IDB would fully commit the US$30 million credit from the World Bank by the end of
1982. However, as it turned out only US$17,303,969.81 had been committed by this date to 14 sub-
projects. This was as a result of much lower demand than projected for. The report has highlighted
some of the major causes of this slack demand as being:
a)   Global recession and world economic conditions prevailing in the latter part of 1970s which
also affected Kenya.
b)  The country experienced prolonged drought.
c)   The prices of coffee continued to decline while those of oil were rising.
These conditions resulted in severe balance of payment problems which constrained the growth of the
economy and hence credit demand. On hindsight, the observation made in the Report that the economic
reality in which IDB was operating was not sufficiently recognized and (that) attempts were not
satisfactorily made to scale down the amount of loan is fairly accurate. GDP growth had continued to
decline from 8.6% in 1977 to 5.7% in 1978, 4.1 % in 1979 and 2.4% in 1980. Similarly, growth in
the manufacturing sector declined from 7.9% in 1979 to 4.6% in 1980. If this trend in the economy
had been adequately considered, it would have been realized that IDB would not possibly commit the
US$30 million within the projected period. Although there were, say, 23 loan approvals in 1981 alone,
most of these were local currency financed under the Medium-Scale Enterprises Scheme (MSES).
Indeed the level of approvals declined to 10 in 1982 and further to five each in 1983 and 1984.
3.    It should, however be noted that IDB was also trying to consolidate its portfolio during this
period, and that a number of prospective clients were put away by the high rate at which the Kenya
Shilling was depreciating against major convertible currencies. In 1981, the Kenya Shilling was
devalued by 22% and further by 15% in 1982.



Project Implementation:
4.     The Report notes that as a result of necessary domestic and international climate, poor quality
of appraisal and supervision, the implementation of the project was not satisfactory. It is true that
commitment and closing dates were extended three times with the last disbursement date officially
ending on December 31st 1988. Even then, there was still an undisbursed amount of US$1,448,609.17
which was eventually canceled on January 24th 1989. This long period that it took to commit the loan
fully may also be attributed to IDB's over-enthusiasm already alluded to above when estimating total
requirements over the initial project period, and latter attempts to consolidate the existing portfolio.
As already mentioned above, unfavourable foreign exchange fluctuation put away viable projects. Huge
balance of payment deficit, excess capacities and accumulation of stocks called for extreme caution over
investment decision by prospective investors resulting in IDB approving fewer projects than anticipated.
A number of approvals also ended up being cancelled.
Sub-Loans:
5.     The information on sub-projects given in the Report is generally correct and the figures therein
fairly accurate. The following are some of the observations on the sub-loans:
a)   The total subloans financed through the Project were 29 benefiting 28 different companies.
b)   Total disbursements amounted to US$28,551,390.83 leaving a balance of US$1,448,609.17
which was cancelled (see Table 6). Most of this balance had originally been committed but
was either not fully disbursed or the sub-projects were cancelled altogether. Of the 29
subloans, eleven were above free limit ranging in size from US$988,144.39 to
US$4,535,864.98. The rest which were below free limit ranged from US$99,717.09 to
US$580,404.32. Four sub-projects amounting to US$2,860,789.72 were raw material short
term loans. Except for cases of loan rescheduling, the maximum maturity period was 10 years
including a maximum moratorium of two years.
c)   Of the 28 sub-projects for which disbursements were made, 12 have been put under
receivership and have since either been sold or being liquidated at a great loss to IDB. Eleven
have fully paid their loan through either normal loan servicing as per original amortization
programme or refinancing from local borrowing. One sub-project has not started operations
due to lack of working capital resulting from cost overruns during implementation. Only five
projects are still active, a majority of which have had their loans rescheduled.
d)   Almost all projects experienced cost overruns during implementation precisely for the various
reasons given in the Report, i.e.
(i) changes in project scope
(ii) delays in securing equity capital
(iii) delays in completion of legal documentation, and
(iv) changes in exchange rates.
Cost overruns were also experienced due to delays in getting approval by the external lenders,
and unrealistic original cost estimates.
e)   Of the 28 sub-projects, 12 relied heavily on imported raw materials while 15 relied fully or
partially on local raw materials. Two sub-projects in the hotel industry are high class hotels



- 12 -
catering mainly for foreign tourist clientele. One sub-project based on local raw material was
designed for the export market.
f)   Of the 28 sub-projects, 17 i.e. 61 % are located in the urban areas with 14 of them located in
Nairobi and Mombasa.
g)   Of the total disbursements 56.6% went to new projects while the remainder were utilized for
expansions or raw material imports.
h)   During 1981-1985 IDB approved a total of 53 sub-projects amounting to KSh. 520.5 million
net of deletions. This was below projection for reasons given in the Report and already cited
above. The accuracy of the figures in the Report on this section cannot be ascertained as the
relevant annex is missing. Annex 6 referred to does not seem to be relevant.
i)   As of December 1985, IDB's total portfolio, i.e., both loan and equity was KSh. 874 million.
The arrears as a percentage of total portfolio were 28.24% or 30.6% of loan portfolio. The
corresponding levels in 1981 were 17.88% and 22.22%. The arrears affected portfolio in 1981
and 1985 were 51 % and 827% respectively. This clearly confirms a deteriorating trend in debt
collection, and that of the IDB portfolio. Once again, it is not possible to ascertain the
accuracy of some of the figures in this section of the Report as the table referred to do not
seem to be relevant. Instead Table 7 and 8 have been used to arrive at some of the above
information.
j)   IDB's equity investment as of December 31st, 1985 is given in the Report as KSh. 105.3
million which is fairly correct.  This however, appears to represent the entire equity
investments over the years from 1974 but does not take into account equity write-offs in
projects which were either in receivership or those from which IDB had already divested
(either voluntarily or through project liquidations). Otherwise, the total number of projects in
which IDB had equity investments as of December 31st, 1985 is correctly indicated as 27 with
original equity investment totalling KSh. 63 million. Of the 27 projects, 13 were profitable
while 5 of the remaining 14 have since been placed under receivership and are at various stages
of liquidation. Dividend yield figures given in the Report are somewhat distorted due to the
way equity has been presented. Otherwise, they are generally quite dismal.
Major Results:
6.     Table 6 which is attached hereto gives a list of sub-projects financed under the Project, together
with specific aspects of the individual sub-projects. Of the US$30 million which was available under
the Project, 95% was disbursed by the closing date. Forty-nine percent of this arnount was disbursed
to sub-projects in rural/semi-urban areas whereas 44.6% was disbursed to sub-projects in either Nairobi
or Mombasa. 45.4 percent was disbursed to import substitution sub-projects.
7.     Table 6 may also give an indication as to the general performance of individual sub-projects.
Of the 28 sub-projects that benefitted from the project, 2 were not fully implemented while 11 ended
being placed under receivership for unsatisfactory loan servicing. Some have already been sold at heavy
losses to IDB while the rest are at various stages of liquidation. Ten sub-projects have either repaid
or refinanced their loans. Only five are still servicing IDB loans, some of which have been rescheduled
for several years. Collections from these sub-projects cannot adequately service the entire loans
provided under the Project as a result of which IDB is experiencing a lot of financial strain in servicing



- 13 -
the loans. It is therefore correct, as stated in the Report that the Project had a negative financial impact
on IDB.
Project Sustainability:
8.     The general observations concerning arrears position, collection ratios, shareholders' support
and staff morale are correct. The following are some specific comments we would like to make:
a)   Arrears: Tables which are referred to in connection with arrears are not available to us.
However, from Tables 8 and 10 which present an analysis of loans, and Balance sheets
respectively, it is shown that in June 1986, arrears of over three months as a percentage of the
total portfolio outstanding were 33% but declined to 23.5% in 1988.
b)   Liquidity:  Tables which are referred to in connection with liquidity indicators are not
available. However, it is true, as stated in the report, that arrears increased and IDB was
forced to place a number of projects in receivership, the Banks best clients prepaid loans
through refinancing and the portfolio was considerably weakened resulting in difficulties in
meeting external obligations.
c)   Equity Investments: The views expressed in the report on equity investments are quite
correct. IDB's decision to use the domestic currency resources for equity investment had not
been fruitful in terms of dividend yields or through capital gains. The funds would certainly
have had greater chance of being recycled if they had been put into local currency loans. It
is however, important to consider some of the original guiding factors such as promotion of
indigenous industrial entrepreneurship or local ownership in some of the international
companies which was somewhat achieved.
d)   Government support: Tables which refer to arrears of GovernmentlParastatal-owned subjects
are not available. It is however true that if the Government would pay arrears or debts of
public-owned sub-projects, IDB's liquidity would have improved. It is estimated that the total
debt in these sub-projects which are referred to as "Social Projects" together with those
whereby the Bank cannot take action because of Government instruction is about KSh. 510
million.
e)   IDB Staff:  The comment on staff turnover especially that of senior and experienced
professionals is fairly correct. Senior staff members were very few and overstretched. Many,
however, left for better remuneration rather than because of dissatisfaction with the way the
institution was managed.
Reform and Restructure:
9.     We are in agreement with the Report's observation that an institution can only sustain itself and
fulfill its objectives if the organizational set-up and procedures are responsive to the changing
environment, and therefore that the sustainability of IDB would be doubtful if existing organization and
procedures are let to continue. It is in this recognition that a restructuring programme for the Bank was
approved by the Government and is now being implemented with the assistance of the World Bank and
International Development Ireland Limited consultants. Some details on the restructuring are given in
our reply to the third paragraph of your letter.



- 14 -
Lessons Learnt:
10.    Credit Assessment: A number of lessons have been learnt through this Project which will be
of great benefit to IDB's future credit assessment and performance. As observed in the Report, the
environment in which the credit is expected to perform as well as the absorptive capacity of the
entrepreneurial class are important.  As already stated above, the assessment of IDB's credit
requirement was based on projected requirements for sub-projects in the pipeline and those new ones
which were expected to come into the pipeline. However, as it turned out, a number of those sub-
projects in the pipeline at the time of credit assessment were not financed through the Project mainly
because they were at very preliminary stages of project development and were therefore dropped at later
stages. It is therefore necessary that credit assessment be based on projects that are at an advanced
stage of the project development cycle. Some of the sub-projects were also delayed because of the
prevailing economic environment whereupon prospective clients became more cautious and delayed
investment decisions. In all, the absorptive capacity of the economy turned out to be less than projected
by IDB thus necessitating several extensions of the credit.
11.    Project Selection: Another major lesson that has been learnt from the Project is the sub-
project selection criteria. For instance, most of the sub-projects financed through the project were not
capable of absorbing the high financial costs related to a highly depreciating Kenya Shilling against
major convertible currencies in which the loans were disbursed. Sub-projects which were considered
viable at the time of approval were rendered unviable in the face of a depreciating Kenya Shilling as
they could not adequately service their financial obligations. In the end, a number of them prepaid their
loans through refinancing or were placed in receivership and sold at a high loss to IDB. Perhaps it may
not have been possible to anticipate a situation whereby say, the US Dollar exchange rate would have
increased from KShs. 7.50 in 1980 to KShs. 18.50 in 1988 and further to KShs. 34.00 in 1992. The
issue has now been acknowledged and corrective measures undertaken through the establishment of
Exchange Risk Assumption Fund whereby the Treasury will bear much of the exchange risk.
12.    Cost Overruns: In assessing the failure of some of the sub-projects, it has been confirmed that
a number of them were heavily undercapitalized especially because of cost overruns which necessitated
additional borrowing and/or use of funds originally meant for working capital. It is therefore necessary
that adequate contingency be provided for in project costing and that sponsors be capable of meeting
cost overruns through equity contributions rather than loans.
13.    Project Monitoring: There is also a need for close monitoring during project implementation
and financial contribution by project sponsors. This will help in detecting problems at an early stage
and appropriate corrective measures taken in time. It is hoped that the active portfolio management that
has been adopted by IDB will effect this close monitoring.
Action Programme for restructuring/divestiture of industrial parastatals and financial
restructuring of IDB
14.    As for the status of the implementation of the proposed action programme for
restructuring/divestiture of industrial parastatals in IDB's portfolio, and IDB's own financial
restructuring, we wish to state that these were part of a wider restructuring programme which should
be addressed in its full perspective. To start with, we would like to note that the issue of restructuring
of IDB portfolio arose out of a study carried out under the Industrial Sector Reform Programme by
RBC Dominion Securities Inc. on the Kenyan Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) which was
presented to the Government in August 1989. The study set out a series of activities that were
necessary in implementing a proposed action plan whose major objectives were:



- 15-
(a)  Revision of DFIs mandates to improve their effectiveness and implement financial self
sustainablity.
(b)  Restructuring of DFIs' management to implement an organization structure that provided for
the autonomy of the Chief Executives and accountability for management decisions among
others, and
(c)  Strengthening financial conditions of DFIs to implement their new mandates effectively.
15.    Revision of DFIs Mandates:  The main activities that had to be undertaken in the
implementation of the first objective included obtaining a cabinet clearance on new DFI policy and
restructuring, outlining objectives of restructuring DFIs and the approach selected to implement
restructuring, and isolation of "Social Projects" requiring budgetary support. All these activities which
culminated in the appointment of International Development Ireland Limited (IDI) consultants to assist
in the implementation of IDB restructuring have already been undertaken. The only issue outstanding
is on the treatment of social projects especially on reimbursement of costs to IDB from the Treasury.
16.    Restructuring of EDB Management:  Restructuring of IDB Management entails the
restructuring of the Board, defining the Chief Executive Officer's powers and responsibilities, and
implementation of a new organization structure reflecting portfolio management approach. Guidelines
on the composition of the Board, criteria for selection of Board members, and duties, responsibilities
and authority have been established. It has been recommended that government representation be
limited to only one director and that more members be drawn from the financial sector and professionals
with management, legal and manufacturing bias. These guidelines have yet to be agreed and acted upon
by the Government. One area where significant progress has been made is in the implementation of
a new organization structure. A new organization chart developed by IDI consultants and IDB
Management reflecting the revised mandate of the Bank and reporting system has been implemented.
Of particular significance is the establishment of the portfolio management approach. All the projects
in the Bank's portfolio have been distributed among for portfolio teams headed by portfolio managers
reporting to the Chief of Operations who in turn reports to the Deputy Managing Director. This has
resulted in more active portfolio management. However, the full objectives of portfolio management
which presumes accountability will be achieved when a concise set of rules as to what decision can be
made at each level of the hierarchy are established. At the moment, IDI consultants in conjunction with
IDB Management are working on a system that will bring about new arrangements related to delegation
of authority and profit centre accounting.
17.    Financial Restructuring: The third objective of the restructuring, i.e., strengthening financial
conditions of IDB is perhaps more specific to the subject of your letter. The activities related to this
part of the action plan may be broadly described as those involving management of foreign exchange
risks of the Bank, restructuring/divestiture of IDB's portfolio and financial restructuring of the Bank.
18.    Management of Exchange Risk: The implementation of management of exchange risks of the
Bank started with the establishment of the Exchange Risk Assumption Fund by the Government under
the Exchequer and Audit Regulations in January 1991 and the appointment of a Liabilities Manager
stationed at the Treasury. The purpose of the Fund is to provide funds required to meet the exchange
risk relating to obligations contracted by IDB, ICDC, and DFCK. Under these regulations, IDB is
required to pay to the Fund a fee of 2.5% p.a. on the principal amounts outstanding and in return IDB
will be cushioned against losses resulting from foreign exchange fluctuations. The Regulations which
were backdated to July 1st, 1989, however, require that IDB first meet the external obligations and
claim any loss if the amount so paid is more than it should have paid using the exchange rates of



- 16 -
July 1st, 1989. Otherwise, IDB shall pay to the government as a credit to the Fund, the amount of
exchange gains. IDB would however, prefer that it only meets its part and Treasury tops-up the
difference instead of meeting the full amount and then seek reimbursement from the Treasury. As the
Fund is meant to benefit the projects financed through foreign currency borrowing from IDB, the Bank
has in turn converted such borrowings to Kenya Shillings with effect from the above date or date of
disbursement, whichever is the later. Int he process of these conversions, the Bank has also increased
the rate of interest charged on the converted loans so as to reflect the market rate of interests in the
domestic market.
19.    Sub-Project Loan Rescheduling: Apart from the conversions to local currency, the Bank has
also rescheduled the original loan repayment programmes so as to accommodate the individual project's
debt servicing ability. In the process, interest arrears were capitalized and in a number of cases, the
new repayment programmes go beyond the repayment period agreed between IDB and the external
lenders of the specific line of credit through which the projects were financed. This has tended to create
a mismatch between IDB receipts and payments to external lenders, a situation that may call for
negotiations for extension or rescheduling of IDB repayment programme with the external lenders.
20.    Corporate Restructuring:  One of the components of the Restructuring Project for the
Development Finance Institutions being undertaken by IDB involves restructuring potentially viable but
currently under-performing projects. This component involves undertaking of financial, managerial and
technical analysis to assist in the restructuring of such projects through short term consultants. The
above loan conversions, capitalization of interest and rescheduling of repayment programmes are part
and parcel of restructuring of projects. There are, however, other forms of restructuring which may
be project or enterprise specific, such as strengthening of equity base, management, marketing and
production processes. The RBC Dominion Securities study identified 13 projects in the Bank's portfolio
which were considered potentially successful but were for various reasons, under-performing and could,
therefore, be turned around if certain measures including financial, operational, and management
restructuring were instituted. Some of these projects have, however, since prepaid their loans or gone
under receivership, thus technically removing them from the potential list to be restructured under the
exercise. The Bank, together with the Corporate Restructuring Consultants from IDI have drawn a new
list of potential projects to be assisted in the exercise, i.e. preliminary financial, managerial, and
technical analysis has already been undertaken on the selected list and appropriate recommendations
made on areas requiring detailed analyses for which specialised assistance, may be required. These
recommendations are being evaluated before the next phase of the exercise is embarked upon.
21.    Divestiture of Industrial Parastatals: The action plan on the divestiture of industrial parastatals
in IDB's portfolio is being undertaken under the wider Government Public Enterprise Reform and
Privatization programme whose aims include enhancing the role of the private sector in the economy,
and reducing the role and rationalizing the operations of the public enterprise sector. The instrument
that is being used to undertake the privatization programme is the Parastatal Reform Programme
Committee (PRPC) assisted by its Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU). The Department
of Government Investments and Public Enterprises (DGIPE) is responsible for those aspects of the
reform programme that are related to strategic parastatals which are to remain in state hands. These
are defined as those that provide essential services or are considered to play a key role from the view
point of national security, health and environmental protection.
22.    As at 30th June 1992, IDB had equity investments in 23 companies. Out of these, only one,
i.e. Rehabilitation Advisory Services Ltd. (RAS) has been designated as a strategic commercially
oriented state enterprise which will be retained in the public domain. In order to facilitate the
divestiture programme through the PRPC, the Bank has prepared and forwarded project briefs on all



- 17 -
the 22 companies which have been considered as non-strategic commercially oriented state enterprises,
covering the statement of the company's objectives, ownership, Government exposure, performance,
estimated value of assets, and recommended method of divestiture and time table. Additional papers
have also been prepared as a guide in estimating the share values of individual companies.
23.    Of the 22 companies, only seven have been approved for the first phase of divestiture by the
PRPC (Table 15). IDB has already successfully negotiated and sold its shares in Highland Paper Mills
Ltd. at a total of KShs. 875,000 compared to the original investment of KShs. 500,000. The shares
were sold to some of the company's existing shareholders under pre-emptive rights. The PRPC has also
approved sale of IDB shares in the East African Oxygen (K) Ltd. through the Nairobi Stock Exchange
as this is a public quoted company. However, efforts to sell through the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE)
at a reserve price have, for various reasons, not been successful. Apart from the above two companies,
the PRPC has not approved modalities of divestiture and timing for the sale of the rest of the companies
that have been selected for the first phase of the divestiture programme.
24.    Divestiture of Non-Parastatal Companies: Apart from the projects in which IDB has equity
investment and is therefore divesting through the PRPC, the Bank is also divesting its investment in a
number of companies through sale of projects and/or liquidation of assets. Currently, there are nineteen
projects in the Bank's portfolio which are under receivership and at various stages of sale or assets
liquidation (Table 6). Every effort is being made to conclude the exercise so that the Bank's portfolio
is appropriately restructured.
25.    Financial Restructuring of IDB: Finally, as to the financial restructuring of IDB, this focuses
mainly on the Bank's assets and liabilities restructuring including that of share capital. The Bank's
major assets are loan investments both long term and arrears, and equity investments. As already
mentioned above, a decision has already been made to divest equity investments in non-strategic
companies. However, the process of divestiture through the PRPC is likely to drag for a long time.
In the meantime, the immediate equity restructuring that is available for the Bank is valuation or shares,
an estimate of which has been made.
26.    As for the loan investment, a provision of KShs. 198,589 million was made for the year
1990/1991 and the Bank is currently assessing any additional provision for the year 1991/1992 which
will then be incorporated in the accounts.  There is also an ongoing assets liquidation through
receiverships or poor debt servicing companies. Perhaps the major achievement in the area of loan
restructuring is the conversion of foreign currency to Kenya Shillings debt. Similarly, restructuring of
liabilities has partly been effected through the establishment of the Exchange Risk Assumption fund
which have already been discussed above.
27.    Other Bank liabilities include liabilities to the Government of Kenya in respect of payments
made to the external lenders by the Government on behalf of IDB. The Bank has, on a number of
occasions, requested the Government to either convert these to equity so as to improve IDB's equity
base or write them off against claims on social projects which stand at about KShs. 510 million. The
relevant papers to support the claim have been prepared and forwarded to the Government. It should
be noted that out of the authorized share capital of KShs. 400 million for the Bank, only KShs. 257.6
million is actually issued and paid up. It is now necessary to not only pay-up this balance but actually
enhance the equity base so as to improve on the Bank's ability to borrow both locally and externally,
especially in the face of the highly depreciated Kenya Shilling.



- 18 -
PART Ell. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.   Title         Purpose             Year of    Status      Comments
__________   ________   _____________________    Approval
946-KE    IDB I    Finance industrial        1973     Closed      Completed 9/79
development
subprojects
1148KE    MDB I    Finance industrial        1975     Closed       Completed 6/80
development
subprojects           _
1438-KE    IDB III   Finance industrial      1977     Closed       Completed
development                                   12/82. US$1.8
subprojects                                   million out of
US$20 million
cancelled.



-19-
TABLE 2: 
PROJEC'rAETABLE
Name:    MDB-rV
Loan No.:    1817-KE
Approved     USS30 million
Disbursed    USS28.55 million
Cancelled    US$1.45 million
Acta Date
Staff Appralsal Report                   February 1980
Preside's Report                         March 1980
Board Approval                           Ma  1980
Loan Agreement                           June 1980
Loan Effeciveness                        August 1980
Original Loan Closing                    Dec.rb*dr 1985
Fist Extension of Closing Date           December 1986
Second Extension of Closing Date         December 1987
Third Extension of Closing Dae           km 191
Completion Date                          Decembe 1988



- 20 -
TABLE 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
B9Ak Fical Ymr
wd Quaw                    -AraddAcI__
Quaziy        cumulatve              QuItZy    Cumulati v                   ot
Diaburne                    S%       Didbunz.   Disbwe         Sof        Toul
YcLr      Quaxtcr                     mc                      we=        mM=                     L.an
FY1    JA-UF            130          1.30         4.33       . 
Apr-Iun         .40         1.70        5.67       -           -            _           -
FY12     JuI4P            .40         2.10         7.00       .93         .93        4430         3.10
0Cc-De         1.50         3.60        12.00       .67        1.60        44.40
Jan-Ar         2.60         620         20.67       .n7        2.47        39.80
Apr-n          1.20         7.40        24.67       .4         291         3930
FY13      Jult-p         1.10         340         27.33       157        4.44        52.70        -
Oct-DM         2.70        11.20        3733       2.3         6.71        59.90
Ian-Ma         4.10        s530         51.00      1.14        7.25        51.30
Apt- IU        1.90        17.20        5733        .64        3.49        49.40
FY14      JQu"           1.90        19.10        v3.67        .07       5.56        44."0.
c-Des          1.60        21.50        71.67       .= 1.      57          40.50     *
Iae-mu         3.20        24.70        W33        L78        10.54        4XtO 0
AUpr4u         1.50        26M20        3733        .57       11.13        4250
FYU15     IuI4           1.40        27.60        92.00      ,.         11.99        43.40
Oct-Doe        .90         23.50        95.00       .95       1294         45.40
lab-mar        .10         2930         97.67       .13       13.07        4460.        -
Apr-Iun         30         29.60        98.67       .83       13.95        47.10
FY196     Jl-S            .20        29.30        9933       2.60       16.55        55.50
0cc-Dc                     30.00       100.00      1.Z7       17.32        59.40
Ian-mu                                              .82       18.64        62.10
Apr-Jun                                             .47       19.11        63.70
FYB7      lulq                                                .47       19.58        6530
Occ-D.c                                            l.09       20.67         1.90
1an-u                                               .O       ZO.75        W02
Apr-Jun                                             .55       21.30       7n.0
FY1S    Ju1q                                                   .95      31.-
0cc-s                                              L73        23."         79.90        -
JIAU'                                               .76       24.74        32.50
Apw4ux                                             1.49       26M3         87.40
AFl9       Jul-Sq                                             232        2S.55        95.20
OcDec                                              -          22.55        95.20       -3



TABLE 4:   USE OP BANK STAPP ReSOURCeS
MISSION DATA
Thrnugh             MonI             No. of           No. of          Staff         Staff              Raing
Appraial             YX.              PCo                               Wsskjs     BCWrncksd              .n  b         Datc of.cx.tj
Appaisal             479               5               3                15                     -                        t lcbruary 20, 1980
Months
Supervision    Mosa i        Since     No. of      No. of    Staff         Rcprcmstcnd       -Rating-             Prubicm         D)rlc of
Miuion         Year         Last      Persons     Wcks    Wecks             Staff           a           b                         Rcport
Mission
Mission 1      04179         12          2           1          2          Opcrations        1           2        P             04/24/1980
Officcn
Mission 2      12180         a           2           5          3          Opcration s       2           2        Pl.M          02J17/1981
Offitccn
Mission 3      12/51         6            1          1          1          Operations        3           3        P.P.M,O       02/12/1981
Officen
Mission 4      06/82         6           2           1.5        3          Opertions         3           I        P,M           06130/1982
Mision 5       12/82         6           3           1          3         Openrtions         3           2        P,P,M          021J0311983
Minsion 6      05/S3         7           1           2          2         Opctions           3           I        P.M            061031/983
Officts
Mision 7       32V3         6            I           1.5        1.5       Operaions          3           2        P.M           04/18/1984
OffiCers
MUwiss  S      09/34         6           3           3          9         Opcrtions         3            I        P.M            10/26/1984
Officer
Missio.9       02/5         6            2           1.5       3          Openations         3                    P             04/24/1985
Officcrs
Miuioa 10      10/15         N/A         I           I.5        1.5       Operaions          2           I        p              12/23/1995
Officer
Missio  II    130/6          N/A         1           1.5        1.5       Openatin           3           -        P.M           0131611987
OfI[icers
Mission 12    81/8          N/A          I           N/A        -         Opertios           -           -                        07/1988
Offiers
Misiom 13     OUU/           N/A         I           N/A                  Opeions           -                     -             0U/09/1918
Officers
a   I:probkln two or minor prebkmr; 2:modcratc probkmns; 3:msjor poblaks
b     a Ipmving; 2:stalmonary; 3.decrionrting
1:i Financc   M e MakasCcAncln      P = Pulin.s      O - Oliacr



TABLE 5;  RESOURCE MOBILIZATION (FOREIGN EXCIIANGE) BY IDB
Ulnes of Credit
Comnmitment       Interest     Commission         Grace       Repaynment         l't'al
LAandh )b            n  Amoui          FM %2e          Rde PA.         BA l}.l.         Period         hCodge          PeriodA
IBRD I           USS S m              0.75            7.25            -               2               15             17
IBRD U           USS 10 m              0.75            5.5             -              3                15             18
IBRD III          US$ 20 m              0.75            8.2                            3               15             18
IBRD IV           USS 30 m              0.75            8.25            -              3               15              18
ADB I            UA 3 m               0.75            7.5            1.0             3               10              13
ADB 11            UA S m              0.75             7.5            1.0             3               12             15
ADH I1I           UA 20 m              1.00            10.0           1.0              3               12             15
DEG I            DM  4 m              0.50            5.0             -              6                7              13
DEG U            DM  6 m              0.50             8.8                            6               6              12
EIB I          EAU S m               1.00            5.0            -               4                7              11
BADEA I            US$ S m               0.50            7.0           0.5              3               12              15
ECGD I            S18. I m             1.00            7.0             -               2               5              7
ECOD n             Sl3 I m             1.00            7.5                             2               6              8
EXIM Bank
Indi I        [Rp. 20 m               1.50            8.5                            2               10             12
India ll      IRpS. 100 Im            0.50            9.25                            3               11             14
Swiss M A           Sfr. om               -           1 7/8 above        -               5               10             15
Swiss Market
B           Sfr. 10 II            -              Rate                           10               10            20



- 23 -
TABLE 6: SUl-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER IDB IV                                          PaP I  (2
Loam                                                                        ProJeet&La  n.
Compay SUN                  A _         Ln1M        New/Eid4g    L E4                    Str
(S)                                       _    ___
E.A. B                        1.2S3      Rural     Raw Metial   lp. SubL.Re.Baaed  Fibrm A Cordap Receivership A Sold
Pan Plaaics                   1.047      Urban     New              Impott Subtitud      Plei             Loan Prepaid
Kenya Gauze                  0.948       Rural     New              Imp. Sub/L.Re..Baaed  Texulaada   Still undr im p
Aberdare Oil                  1.S96      Rural     Exp./Raw Mari Imp. Sub/L.Res.Basad  Edible oil         La Receivership
Plaa Indutice                 0.510      Rural     New              Import Submiudon    LTandry Produa LI Receivership
Vimr                          1.430      Rural      Expansio        Local Re.. B"ed      Fibre A Cordage Caciled
Equatorial Beach             2.0S0       Urban     New              Export Oriented      Touri/HoWe    Loan Rescheduled
Mukuwa Holdings               3.873      Urban     '4eow            Export Oriented      Tourisd/Hotd    Loan Rlchdu
Mabad Rolling                 4.536      Rural      New             Raw Merial           Metals           Loa Repid
Tropical Food                 1.108      Rural      New             Exp. Or./L.Rea.Based  Fruit Juim      Is Recaiversip
Seacotins                     2.295      Urban      Expanion        lmport Subait        Plastics         Is Rec.ivuhp
Fundisha Salt                 1.375      Rural      Expa            Imp. Sub/L.Ru.Basd  Table Sal         Lan Rescheduled
Clayworks                     0.826      Urban      Expansaca       Local Re. Basd       Clay T"          Lan Repaid
KAradna Anima Feeds           0.157      Rural      New             Local Res. Basd       Animal Feed.    Sold
Gais  Tanunu                  0.451      Rural      New             Exp. Or./L.Ru.B&md  LAatE             In Receivmhlp
EGATEX                        0.316      Urba       Raw Materl    lmport Sub bm          T a              Low Prpad
Kicomi (1983)                 0.470      Urban      EarLom          Imp. Sub/L.Res.Bas.d  Taiea           Ia Ravaivhip
Booth Manufacturs             0.315      Urban      Exasica         lmport Sbbmtln       Mal ftacti_a Sviag Lam
PuMhl1s                       0.534      Urban      New             lmp. Sub/L.Rm.Based Pye Co am Prpld
Dandor Millers                0.510      Urba       Nw              Local Rae. Bud       Gra Miol        Loan PrqAi
DiLks Wood                    0.292      Rural      New             Loa Ru. Da1d         Wood             is Recivrship
Cavas                         0.313      Urban      Expansio        Imp. SUb/L.Rea.Band  Tetle             P,.s  Projet
Sigma Surface                 0.118      Urba       New             Import Suba_Abo      Pait             Loaw R4pad
Tigcr Shoe                    0.15S      Urba       Expasin         Laport Subo*itc      LaIhtr Ptodu   Is Raoawr
Kenya Fiahnt                  0.100      Urban      Expamsm         Import SubatMit      Fib  & Cordqe Lam Repa
Nairobi Oil                   0.753      Urbea      EXpnsion        Imp. Sub/L.Rt.Baed  Clma              In Receiveralp
Wir Products                  0.25S      Urban      Expnsion        Import Sub           Meas             L1an Rpad
Metal Box                    0.237       Urban      Ezxpanion       import S     _ka     Mea              Loam Repa
Pan Plantc                    0.361      Urban      Raw Mateial    Raw M      al Loa     P lsdm           Loa R4pa
Total Disburts               21.551
Undisbursed Balance           1.449
Total Credit                 30.000 1                                                                      _
Mmo items (as percentages of disburne):
Urban Baed Projects           50.9%
Rurl B d Projec               49.1%
NeW Projes                    56.6%
Ezpansiow/Raw MJL             43.4%
lmport Sub                    45.6S



- 24 -
Table 6: Projeets Flnanced Under EDB IV
Page 2: Undisbursed Loan Amounts
Undisbursed
Company                                 Loan Amount
Name                                       (US$)
1         E.A.Bag                                     1,208,000.00
2         Pan Plastics                                  (51,102.89)
3         Kenya Gauze                                    19,412.61
4         Aberdare Oil                                   11,518.47
5         Plaza Industries                               32,999.44
6         Vimar                                          (4,954.48)
7         Equatorial Beach                                   0.00
8         Mukawa Holdings                                60,014.09
9         Mabati Rolling                                     0.00
10        Tropical Food                                  (12,410.33)
11        Seracoatings                                        0.00
12        Fundisha Salt                                  21,072.85
13        Clayworks                                           0.00
14        Karatina Animal Feeds                               0.00
15        Garissa Tanners                                     0.00
16        EGATEX                                              0.00
17        Kicomi (1983)                                       0.00
i8        Booth Manu.                                         0.00
19        Punchlinea                                    (65,047.19)
20         Dandora Millers                              (60,018.32)
21        Dimnas Wood                                     3,431.32
22         Canvas                                             0.00
23         Sigma Surface                                      0.00
24        Tiger Shoe                                          0.00
25         Kenya Fishnet                                      0.00
26         Nairobi Oil                                        0.00
27        Wire Products                                       0.00
28         Metal Boe                                          0.00
29        Pan Plasts                                      (1,033.40)
30         Shelter Feeds                                237,772.00
31        L.G. Foods                                     99s877.00
32        Unallocated                                   (50.922.
TOTAL                                       1,448,09.17



Tae 7:  _g Opw_ms, FYUFY92
(Mammk la Kh mainm)
6_".
Yea ending Dewombr 31                                                  Yo ndi_  June 30,
19m    miun u                         12M   urn   u                12 12 9r  1990i    1991                           a
ADD
Tm LAmm-Fe  iaay                    190.0    225.3    U3.3       66.6      47.9     67.0    45.6       100.4   268.2    130.2    33.4        79.0      72.7
_lay R-a Ma1a_ LA_                                                                  AU    _              W   A_A  -la 10.6 U.
Tooll ea3Mu       Dy lam            190.0     225.3    33.3      66.6      47.9    135.0    45.6       134.3   29n.6      132.3    44.0   103.3        72.7
Tern Lam.o     dio  C7 J_C           J[7       17.5       _       _         jJ        O.-       -         -        -
TolaI L,m                           106.7     243.3      3.3    66.6       43.6    135.0      45.6     134.3    293.6    132.3    44.0   103.3         72.7
ToslAppI W                              26                                                   j         334.3   29.6 6      3 .3     44 0    3.3        7.7
Tom e Looms-Fm yea       may        160.0     266.3    115.1     66.6      59.7    67.0    28.3        114.2    92.6    133.4    45.5    69.7    174.5
-  Raw _masb Lam                                        -.S    -   _321A                                                             66   7.6 i.6
TMe=c,a_            L               120.0     266.3    115.1      6.6      59.7   135.0    23.3        143.1    123.0     140.5    52.1      77.3    132.1
TOe  LoaIN                          372.7     289.4    115.1    66.6       59.7   135.0   2U.3         143.1   323.0    140.5    52.1        77.3    132.1 3
U"y evensa                          JJ                   0.2      _         2.5       _        _         _        _                   -       -         -
Toal C_ o11.ma                                                                                                  Ila *   U- o ZLl  LILI 1405 AU    I  al  HU.
T     Loem-ft         uy             75.6     153.3    179.3    67.4      106.3   102.9      43.3       73.7     69.0      89.0     79.4    172.5      14.6
_,@iged lowbedalad._M- -M                                                                       - _  _  _  _62   A3 14
Tos.Fnee4gIfflleya                   75.6     153.3   179.3      67.4     106.3   130.0    43.3         31.4     79.1      39.0     37.6   I37.6       13.0
TaILamDom  iny    4 ~                                   j    .1j   jj  _    _   H~1   n    _    _                                                       -
Told Loom                            34.4    177.1    194.1    71.5       110.7    130.0    43.3       U3.2      31.2      39.0     87.6    173.6      13.0
Equity     r                         1_         -A                0.        2. 5     02 _      _    _                                         - 
TOl DWacessmdal                     J7                                                       I Al               IL ,_L0             j7 6     73.6      J50



TABLE I : nDB Aulymi. of LoAm. In Anomu
NumberoLof  uhtA4 n                1901     1982      1983      1964      1965      1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
ToiaINUnbw h PaoIoI                 106       97        121       99        96        98       90       94       94        64       83        62
Noa hiAn AemOvr 3 smnbv              63       55        103       67        71        72       79       76       76        62       71        43
As 'A ofToa  aNWbe               49.1%    56.7%    85.1%       67.7%    72.4%      73.5%    80.6%    80.9%      80.9     73.8       J5      57.3
TAI PInuIOSi C an" iN             326.3    556.4      718.7    716.1       675    864.9    1321        1444     1481    1255.    1244.    1333.
Pdcud Affected Airerv
OvCr Hr  nKmom                    16U        395      632.4    687.4      717.6    655.1    807.3    862.4    893.3    694.8       735    472.2
AS% dT TdOuhndln                  61.3%    71%      88%        88%      62%        74%      61.1%A   59.7%    60.3%    47.4%    59.1%    35.4%
Arrerwn  r3uMwhu                   67.3     96.2      218.3    252.3      270.9    384.1    283.7    3568.8    372.1    956.8    769.7      1026
AS%oTuol Ouhimndg                 17.6%    17.3%    30.4%      32.3%    31%        43.4%    21.5%    24.8%    25.1%    93.1%    66.8%    68.8%
Told C.I.bmd,rdd
TuldFltgOuaosYr                    1       ILa.          76       76        92 91              91        91       9        B3      47.2     96.5
Told CbsldIcVrldW FAbIN
040iYwpksArrn.                             n.a      29%        20%      35%       21%       35%      35%      36%       22.5%    13.8%    12.2%
aouc~ D



- 27 -
TABL E 9: IDB Secoral Diution of Lou Pbrtf,Iio
ui of De,b.w 31, 1991
(amounlts LA Ksh  A000A
o. of      Amount         I of Totalt If fa                        o           no. a
LOWAa      outataa odn    outsutandi     byArW          months     oate    lsc rkL 1p
Aqroindustry             7         1S6.138            8.7          15.3     10.306        43.1               1
AutomotLv              -             -              -             -            -          _ 
Chemical                 4         110.102            6.1           100      71.94        65.3               3
Coactruction             2         103.772            5.8           4.5        853         18.1
food                     2          83.11             4.6           100      2.654         3.2               2
Leather                  3         168.384/           9.4.          100     168.38         100               3
1tal *aqln--ring         3           92. 4            512.         44.7     21.541        52.2               2
Kn"/Quarrue              4          14.578              3          57.3     19.113        *1.1               3
Paper VeLatLag           3          42.727            2.4          59.3     25.SSS         1W0               I
Platic.                  2          32.209            1.8          26.4
o/Ced-                   2          59.111            3.3           100     S9.111         100               1
S.ervi                   1           9.179            0.5         -            -          -
Sll                      9         232.291             13           100        110        47.4               3
Touri.m/Uotela           6         627.405           3S.4          32.7     518.62          100
Wood                     2          18.999            0.8           100     18.347         96.6               1
Totals                   50       1790.489            100          63.4     1026.3         57.3             20



Tab4e 10 : ID  Baance Seetb, FY3l-FY9                                           Page I of 2
(amua is KSh miS n)
6 mos.
ending
Ycar Ending Decanber 31.                   June                  Year Ending June 30.
Caub a*d Bank Baja                   22.4    24.3    14.5      4.6    10.7    13.1    12.2    21.5    11.0    27.1         -       14.6    35.1
Sbrt4km  DqSaaM                     31.5    52.1    48.0    26.3    45.2    83.0    65.0   113.2    67.3    97.2   104.1    79.5   150.1
Sundry DOAdn                         4.2      6.1     7.0    10.3    10.1    18.0    15.1    19.9    30.3    22.5    60.9    112.8   177.8
1.anI - Cw"     N rtha             .12398     6.7    S41              MA 10.    UO      9      125 H99 1       78.4  92  96.4    1A    122.9
Curel Am eb                     105.0   149.2   153.6   134.3   166.4   222.1    18.    263.7  11.0   245.0   261.4   313.3   495.9
LoA  Portf&ol                       252.6   344.1   487.7   476.7   530.4   669.3   725.4   650.7   792.5   620.1   539.7   556.9   507.5
Equky Portbfo                       99.1   103.5    34.0    81.2    66.6    65.0    65.0    65.0    64.4    63.0    64.1    56.2    56.2
Is; pmovbi6m                       1{96)  J5523   (46.51 (4 2 7)   (3 3.94 352 Z        41.5)  (37.3)   (5.3   g695.   (64.01   (42 .1)  222.4
Nk1 PortSfe                     332.1   392.3   525.2   515.2   563.1   699.1   748.9   678.4   300.1   617.2   539.5   571.0   341.3
Loan Rtepymes ha Arrunnn              .S.    n.a.    na..   124.4   142.0   140.1   197.5   304.9   361.7   454.3   662.0   609.9   623.0
letont and CLargm ba Arrems          U..    m.a.      na..   122.9   141.2   167.2   195.0   210.1   227.3   344.9   404.5   542.6   512.7
nLL     *LL     nLL    (63.8  1(61.6   (69.4)   (912    W6i3             L21512   (221  (32   529A4    376.5W 1
Net ArrmujL/                     42.7    91.9   157.7  13.5   221.6   237.9   301.6   371.7   437.9   566.7   742.9   623.1   759.2
Net Mand Asea Is                                                      _ 26  .11  W  12  34  _A7    ..i  _._      716       8.1     8        7
Tt aAaseb                          gL       *iR    1V        12E4    2b4  11L62    12430  1,325.8  14L35  1.436.5 1J5522  1.5154  1,16032
I/ Estimited in 1980. 1981 and 1982



Table 10: IDB Balate Sbeab. FYWFY92                                               Page 2 of 2
(amonab in K   m)ion.)
6 mnos.
cAding
Year Eniing Decenber31,            -        Junc                  Ycar Ending Junc 30,
1m     mm       mm      1212    12li  m1           19S     1Mi    12                 1990    1291       M22Z
SDak Overdraft                        0.0     0.6      0.6      -        -        -       -        -        -      20.0     4.5       -        -
Pjalabk and Aceurak                  U.5    74.9    77.7    26.0    39.5    59.5    70.4   121.5   108.0    67.1    95.7   277.5   312.5
La%-6ru Dek3 - Cm"m   PMh            V2A J2A    12             DAi    11,    12=i   144.    1221    122.D   163A   1DU.5   14U2.    133.
Cuerran lthbIOtn                  66.0   137.6   157.5    99.3   120.6   184.6   214.9   247.2   238.7   250.7   239.7    417.5   515.7
INRD ILAoa                          134.9   201.4   313.7   345.7   393.3   475.6   518.2   547.4   609.7   608.9   636.7   433.0   390.3
OtCka FPmrai Cwrrocy laon            37.8   120.0   158.2   170.1   186.4   226.3   240.5   256.1   293.6   317.0   420.6   432.5   466.2
Loca Cwrrey Lor                      I2 1.1 2    A2 .i         .1      .                               _ _                          - 
I.g-t4rer  DebS                 238.8   332.5   482.3   518.9   582.3   701.5   758.7   103.5   903.3   925.9  1,057.3   565.5   856.5
KEbsnso  Gal nod AduSm"aba           (1.9)    9.2    26.9    32.5    45.0    48.1    45.3    38.8    45.0    60.3    85.2    55.5    49.5
Skam  Capibl - Clm A                164.8   173.9   183.4   207.9   209.1   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0
ware Ctpiki - C_m SI/                25.3    34.0    39.2    39.2    39.2    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6
ANONhe ILAM                         i16n     LL2    (          aLm      mm42.91   a2l   au                aL2                        wL a(2   U4  L2Th   fIL.n  2  C
Ntt  woth                       19941S;    121.    IS3.2   29KA    221              22j.    236       245K5    12Yil   nr7.6    (-7   (75n s.
ToWl  bilao    a" Ni Wort                                   -3.20 ,2 12              43 205 L                        5  LL552.   1.515 4  1.603.9
2/ Indudes unrealized Saint and loua arising from currency translations.
3/ Goveri.meni grants until 1977 when cAfnverted to Class B shares.



TAb  11: IDS  1m. S lin, FYUS-
-Noo In Kh mASmS)
6 m.
Y-st -Y  IS Dwc.b. 31,              mms"                       You Ending Jum 30,
bmm    AC_Fm      FmbomjLl           33.0      52.6      69.6       72.0      15.1      37.1       523      119.4     122.6     131.1     135.7      321.6      114.2
Dividnd 2.5                           25        2.8       3.5        3.3       6.3       1.6        5.4       4.4       4.9       5.6       6.3        1.3
_ _ _Das_inI4monDapab.                4.1       5.9       7.0        S.0       5.3       1.3        4.3      11.3      13.1      10.0       3.3       10.6       9.0
la.maCaimEza bahag                   P.1)       -         (0.4)      2.3       4.3       5.1        4.0       3.4      12.5       3.5       6.7       15.1        0.0
W.bn k ofh .iond Pric                 -         -          -         0.6      10.2      13.7        9.2       5.7      27.1       6.2       11.4       2.7        0.0
Od   1.m                6M                     i          2.2       _12       -M         _U         .L                 A          4.6      JA        234         _U
Tud1IMM_                             41A       63.8      31.1       35.2     111.0      132.1      73.1     155.7     134.7      167.4     173.3     393.7      125.3
bhd-e & C_mm_mFue amu                23.0      33.4      43.3       53.9      52.4      63.0       38.3      56.0      56.0      93.2      91.3      157.9      65.7
U snuALPmeanasi  wgpe                 7.5       9.S       11.4      11.3      11.1       13.4       7.7      16.0      17.3       19.9      21.7      24.3       12.1
Omb.Adiisaui_Rewnese                  5.1       6.2       6.9        6.6       3.1       0.9        3.4       7.3       9.3      22.4       11.2      10.4        5.2
LoA  as Disposs o Equo y 1muamAg      -         0.2       18.0       -          -         .         -                   .          -         .         -          -
PrownAdaoa  IOM                       3.6      43.5       0.1       25.7      13.0      35.1       26.3      33.0      61.7      90.3       77.7     193.6       37.0
-l"cwi                                  t                                      0_ 05 _4             0.2U      _4 _  _                        1.0       0.9        0.3_
TOi bMWmOUN                        __M9L_      SI        *.         Si        ..        Illt       76Q9     WLM       175.4       .1       2Qn9L    32 6        1U2D
aO/(LaAm) b6' Tazxaiu                 1.5    (34.3)       0.2      (12.9)     21.0       13.4      (3.3)     12.1       9.3     (45.9)    (29.6)       6.1        5.0
Taaioa(Fauaioa W       *g Back)        ,                   .          .         .         _                              .         _          .         ,         SiO
Ff*rO(LAM)ahs'Talaiee                 1.5     (34.5)      0.2      (12.9)     21.0       13.4      (3.9)     12.1       9.3     (45.9)    (29.6)       6.1       (SIb        o
MPA bOd LAMM    -            0 ft3 _LU        UD      tD                                          L ?.       p3.5     p13)       L-0)      fy754       r7.6 U
AAndi_ La.o CAnd Po                 116.4h                                                                            A  1.n .  03.5" 1317) (i26  4U    ,   4
I/in 1983 IDB stopped accruing interest income on loans with interest in arrears 24 months or more.



Tble 12: IDB Sm.  i Use of Foe& SIm , FYS-FY92
-mem im KS ~mT)
6 ame.
oi
Year Ending Decciaber 31,                     u-m  Year Ending June 30,
198     19t       I"2       1931l               22     I"        97      1U       1S       1990     1991     1"22
P7,Wu&G       SA W T8azb.          1.5   (34.S)      0.2    (12.9)    21.0    13.4    (3.9)       12.1      9.3   (45.9)   (29.6)      6.1      5.0
kum ON hydyleg Cmh bbeym=
Dhguimdm                       0.1      0.7       0.6      0.5      0.4      0.2      0.4       0.7     0.7               0.9      0.9
srnge  hr 14S" si4                     a& _7 01          _ff      _a        _  13 63 F4j      1.      _2!1      __,    t10.6)    _a        0-3
Swui - AS  Op nS               5.3      2.1      (7.9)    (16.2)    12.7    15.0      2.6       5.3    29.5   (36.5)   (39.30)    4.3       5.3
la"n4mm DbA                       25.3   112.4    166.9       31.3    71.2   163.0    76.3        26.0   104.5    55.5    79.4    (20.1)        9.0
Smei CauMd 1ml                  _DA      _.Jd       14.7     _4.5       1.9   L__                 -_
Seed-Frm F       .i 1bd hic its65.1   127.2    151.6      55.5    73.0    171.6    76.3        26.0   104.5    55.5    79.4    (20.1)    14.3
Eiacg   W Go& a   A4*om           i 0.4       11.1          _J7 5.6     _._.1             L       _1      __        1       34J.    (229.4)     294
TOTAL SOURCClES                                              fLa   .  LI  .J2L          _LE.   .425       34 0     79                 17.7
LM fstwl.                         54.9   111.4    161.0      (2.0)    61.0   146.5    44.6    (62.1)   111.1  (152.6)  (107.4)        17.0   (49.4)
*;>w tr ammoo i  |.0                       4.4    (19.5)      (2.5)   (14.6)    (1.6)                      (0.6)    (1.4)    (1.1)    (7.9)     -
ImgJci  .) is Na Anitn            42.7    49.2      65.8     25.5    38.1       16.3    63.7      77.1    59.2   128.5   176.0   (119.6)   (16.5)
I ca      in.hlbe Amma             0.5      1.9      -         -       2.4      0.5      0.5       1.7      2.2     1.1      1.5       0.7    (0.6)
IJ(Diw.) k Cub  _ D_               5.3    15.5    (14.0)   (31.6)    25.0    40.2   (18.9)    57.5   (55.9)    45.5   (19.4)    (10.0)    20.5
hJ(D.e.) i e       D _Am         (26.9)    1.5       1.0      3.3    (0.2)      7.8    (2-9)       4.8    10.9    (5.3)    35.4       51.9   162.1
D tJOIKJ leb D    O,u*             1.9    (0.6)      -        0.6                    -             -        -      (20.0)    15.5      4.5      -
wIew) i k IP         md            5        &.6)    -AL)   -5                           ULU 2.06 LO GI)   JLI                1 3.5  4    0.9 I2) _181.|  2)
O        MAL_S 761    1140  4L0 Q.ML                                   11.2     _Z    4=   74.9   (13.4)      14
TOTAZL  IJS              &L L                   19                  - AUQ ,             _2        =,   _          _74-9      4"      .17-7



Tabl 13: IDB rhmcdd Rado, FYW]Y2
6 m.
Year .ndig Decambir 31,                        1_c                       Yeat ending Junt 30,
niQ   nil   na    nu   nim    l                                i                 m   ln   i      i        l
Profi onM)a&WT&&,NeWorib                    0.9%   -22.0%    0.1%      -7.1%    10.2%    5.9%     -1.7%     5.1%     3.3%  -23.0%    17.4%      3.5%     2.7%
Loea1m._ I  imLow PedoIio                   11.3%    12.3%    12.2%    12.6%    13.3%    11.2%     6.4%    15.7%     14.1%   18.2%   21.3%     49.6%    17.3%
Dmviiminquity pbu*io                        2.S%     2.4%     3.4%      4.3%    5.0%    10.4%      2.5%     8.3%     6.9%    7.3%     3.7%     14.3%     3.2%
b,wea3xe mFomlLaqem D.k                     3.1%     9.7%     7.8%      9.1%    7.9%     7.6%      4.3%    9.3%      8.3%    3.6%    1.6%      18.3%     7.7%
haaraiEqemulTaW Ammu                        4.8%    6.0%      5.2%      6.5%    5.5%     5.4%      3.1%    6.5%      6.0%    6.5%    5.9%      10.4%     4.1%
Ada.E _emuToSJAne                           2.6%     2.5%     2.2%      2.1%    2.0%     1.7%      0.9%     1.3%      1.9%    2.9%    2.1%      2.3%     1.1%
P,1mG,eum  Le a  3qdyPt Iwo                 5.0%    10.3%    7.1%       6.6%    4.9%     4.2%      4.7%    4.5%      6.1%    8.4%    11.1%     27.6%     0.1%
jI-wmD   EWbu<NgWo                         1.4      2.1      2.3       2.3     2.3      3.1       3.4     3.4       3.7      4.6     6.2       4.9      4.7
1oog.4m Dek + Cm" PolaroNo Wog&             1.6      2.5      3.3       3.2     3.2      3.6       4.0     3.9       4.2      5.5     7.0       5.7      5.4
QaaggfRado                                  1.5      1.1      1.0       1.3      1.4     1.2       0.9      1.1      0.3      1.0     1.1       0.3      1.0
Incnn Sa~aaas % of Averm TomnAai
Itar,a&Co_insFea1ecM                       7.5%     9.4%     9.4%     3.6%     9.5%     *.2%      4.3%    9.3%      3.9%    9.1%    9.1%    21.4%      7.1%
Divldgmda0.6%                               0.4%     0.4%     0.4%     0.4%     0.6%     0.1%      0.4%    0.3%      0.3%    0.4%     0.6%      0.1%
Ig, 1 oa3hetHmD.poos                        0.9%     1.1%    0.9%       0.6%    0.6%     0.3%      0.4%    0.9%       1.0%    0.7%    0.6%      0.7%     0.6%
DAah.dO(boSEndIaqI                         40.0%             -0.1%     0.3%     0.5%     0.5%      0.3%    0.7%      0.9%    0.6%     0.5%      1.0%
wdw mw* at Pmw Pdd Naimae                                              0.1%     1.1%     1.%      0.3%    0.4%      2.0%    0.6%     0.3%      0.2%
ckkw bm~                                    O.5%     0.5%     0.3%      0.2%    0.3%     0.6%      0.1%    0.4%      0.4%    0.3%    0.4%       2.2%
TO _I   m                                   9.4%    11.4%    11.0%     10.2%    12.4%    12.5%     6.1%    12.1%    13.4%   11.7%    11.6%     26.0%     7.8%
je5, gad Co _mm  P" F. ar3e                 5.2%    6.9%      5.9%     6.4%     5.9%     5.9%     3.2%     6.7%      6.2%    6.5%     6.1%     10.4%    4.1%
_simits SW p  I Clws"                1.7%     1.7%     1.5%      1.4%    1.2%     1.3%     0.6%     1.3%      1.3%    1.4%     1.5%      1.6%    0.3%
Oam irA4.WNwE"  em                          1.2%     1.1%     0.9%     0.3%     0.9%     0.7%     0.3%     0.6%      0.7%    1.6%     0.3%      0.7%    0.3%
I4. as Diyp.m  of Epky bvim}"               2.4X
btlo_imhtL@i                                7.3%    0.0%     3.1%      2.0%     3.3%     2.2%     2.6%     4.5%      6.3%             5.2%     13.0%    2.3%
D%WW466=                                    0.1%     0.1%    0.1%      0.1%     0.1%     0.0%     0.0S    0.0%       0.1%    0.1%     0.1%     0.1%
ToseIEqem                                   9.1%    17.7%    11.0%    11.7%    10.1%    11.2%     6.4%    11.2%     12.7%   14.9%    13.6%     25.6%    7.5%
ho&/(LOSm)Ds xTaxodow,                      0.3%    -6.2%    0.0%      -1.5%    2.3%     1.3%    -0.3%     0.9%      0.7%   -3.2%    -2.2%      0.4%    0.3%



Table 14: DDB Evolution of Staffing 1981-1992
Year end Deoember 31                  1911 .   .     198S   I9M    12   im1   29
Tobd StaSlaff      ateofn g*1 Imr        94    121    122    111    118    U12    125    122    128    128    127    124
of whkb puurt daff                      65     87      87     80      78     76      78     77      76     79     80      80
of wchb pr.finimba                      29     34      35     31      40     45      47     45      52     49     47      44
To   daltaff wiu leftDfB                  6      2      16      6      4       3      6       8      7       6      8       8
of whikb mpport staff                    4      0      11      3       1       1      3      4      2       1      4       2
of whid  profuiesbaak                    2      2       5      3       3      2       3      4       5      5      4       6
due to r.algma                      6       2     15       5      4      3       5      8       7      6      6       6
due to krnhdi_   by IDB             0       0      0       1      0      0       0      0       0      0      0       2
due so .rsiat                       0.0            1       0      0      0       I      0       0      0      2       0
TWAw w                                  33       3       5     13      10      7      3      14      7       5      S       I
o fwtkcbmppet daft                      26      0       4       1      2      3       2      3       5      2      4       0
o wb  prinlumk                           7      3       1      12      8      4       1     11       2      3       1       1
Toaltadoff  ud  efvMl                   121    122    111    118    121    125    122    128    128    127    124   1171e
of wlbk mppet sUaff                     87     87      80     78      76     78      77     76     79      80     80      78
of *twbkchptmab                         34     35      31     40      45     47      45     52     49      47     44      39



- 34 -
Table 15: IDB Equity Portfolio and Categorization by
The Parastatal Reform Program Committee
1.  Rehabilitation Advisory Services Ltd.            Strategic
2.  African Marine & General Engineering Co. Ltd.     Non Strategic
3.  African Tours and Hotels Ltd.                    Non Strategic
4.  Associated Vehicle Assemblers Ltd.**              Non Strategic
5.  Avon Export Services (Kenya) Ltd.                 Non Strategic
6.  Avon Marketing Services (Kenya) Ltd.              Non Strategic
7.  Avon Rubber Company (Kenya) Ltd.                  Non Strategic
8.  Booth Manufacturing (Kenya) Ltd.                 Non Strategic
9.  C.M.B. Packaging Ltd. (Ex Metal Box)              Non Strategic
10. East African Oxygen (Kenya) Ltd.                 Non Strategic
11. Eslon Plastics of Kenya Ltd.                     Non Strategic
12. Highland Paper Mills Ltd.**                      Non Strategic
13. Hotelpn Ltd.                                     Non Strategic
14. Kenya Cashewnuts Ltd.-*                          Non Strategic
15. KICOMI (1983) Lid.**                             Non Strategic
16. Mt. Kenya Bottlers Ltd.                          Non Straegic
17. Nestl Foods (Kenya) Ltd.                         Non Strategic
18. Salt Manufacturers (Kenya) Ltd.**                 Non Strategic
19. Sonotels Kenya Ltd.                              Non Straegic
20. South Nyanza Sugar Co. Ltd.                       Non Strategic
21. Thika Cloth Mills Ltd.                            Non Strategic
22. Nzoia Sugar Company Ltd.                          Non Strategic
23. Wire Products Ltd.                                Non Strategic
Enterprims in IDB equity portfolio approved for the
first phase of divestiture by the Parastatal Reform
Programme Committee (PRPC)



