Document of
The World Bank                         FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2736-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
March 5, 1980
This document ass a restricted distrbutio and my be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be dxclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh           =  US$0.133
US$1.00       =  KSh 7.5
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of 9.66
KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 7.5
which is close to the recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABD       -    African Development Bank
BADEA     -    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de l'Afrique
DFCK      -    Development Finance Company of Kenya
EAC       -    East African Community
EADB      -    East African Development Bank
ECGD      -    Export Credit Guarantee Department (Morgan Grenfell)
ICDC      -    Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB       -    Industrial Development Bank
IDBI      -    Industrial Development Bank of India
ISPC      -    Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre
KETA      -    Kenya External Trade Authority
KIE       -    Kenya Industrial Estates
KNAC      -    Kenya National Assurance Company
KRC       -    Kenya Reinsurance Corporation
MCI       -    Ministry of Commerce and Industry
NBK       -    National Bank of Kenya
NPC       -    New Projects Committee
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya = July 1 - June 30
IDB                   =  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:      Industrial Development Bank (IDB)
GUARANTOR:     Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:        US$30.0 million equivalent
TERMS:         Repayable in accordance with the amortization schedule
for sub-loans for which withdrawals from the loan account
are approved or requested. Interest rate would be 8.25%
per annum.
RELENDING       IDB would relend the proceeds from the loan at an interest
TERMS:        rate of no less than 12% per annum on foreign currency
or at such other rates as may be agreed from time to time
between the Borrower and the Bank. Sub-borrowers will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
PROJECT        The purpose of the proposed project is to assist IDB in
DESCRIPTION:  implementing investment programs, as well as promoting
Kenya's industrial development. More specifically, the
project will enable IDB to use loan funds to provide term
financing for medium and large scale manufacturing
enterprises.
ESTIMATED      FY                1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
DISBURSE-
MENTS:         Annual             1.7     5.7      9.8     9.0      3.5     0.3
Cumulative        1.7     7.4    17.2    26.2    29.7    30.0
APPRAISAL
REPORT:        Report No. 2633-KE, dated February 20, 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN TO
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
fourth loan of US$30.0 million equivalent to the Industrial Development Bank
with the guarantee of the Republic of Kenya. The proposed loan is to help
finance the foreign exchange components of investments by this development
finance company. The interest on the loan will be 8.25% per annum. Amorti-
zation of the loan will conform substantially to the aggregate of the amorti-
zation applicable to subloans and equity investments financed out of the loan,
subject to a maximum of 15 years, including a grace period of three years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE)
dated March 1979 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A sum-
mary of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report
on Kenya is now under preparation.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of
organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a
significant amount of government participation and guidance. While the death
in 1978 of President Kenyatta, who had led the nation since independence, had
been anticipated with concern because of possible political disruption and
discontinuity in Kenya's development, it is clear that the country has made
a smooth transition to new leadership and that the future will see continuity
in both the political and economic spheres. Recent peaceful elections provide
additional confirmation of this.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
1/   This section is substantially the same as the President's Report on
the Structural Adjustment Credits (Report P-2670-KE of February 11,
1980).



-2-
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing was
very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to rising
agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was being
encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign
investment and active government promotion of and participation in manufac-
turing ventures.
5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average per capita income in
1978 was US$320 and agriculture accounted for about a third of GDP (1975-77)
and 60% of export earnings (1977). Since the growth of the industrial sector
has been largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where 80% of the population live
and work. Thus, while the country has made substantial economic progress in
an atmosphere remarkably free from social unrest, it still has significant
problems of poverty and under-employment. It is estimated that about one-
fourth of the population have incomes which place them below the absolute
poverty line. Moreover, while Kenya's post-independence growth record has
been impressive, a number of problems have been emerging which will make it
more difficult to sustain the rapid growth of domestic product and further
alleviate poverty. These are: the extremely rapid growth of population, the
inward-looking pattern of industrialization and the slow growth of and lack of
diversification of exports.
6.        The most fundamental problems Kenya faces are posed by the rapid
growth of population, currently estimated to be in excess of 3.5% per year,
which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically, the result
of Kenya's past success in raising living standards which has resulted in a
steady decline in mortality, and has probably resulted in an increase in the
country's already high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to  2
mount on Knya's limited arable land.  Of Kenya's total area, 583,000 km
520,500 km is categorized as potentially agricultural; however, only 13%
can be regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and 81% low potential.
Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable potential. While pres-
sure on the land was alleviated during the years following independence by
the opening up of a large part of the land previously owned by Europeans
to settlement by Kenyan smallholders, much of the high-potential land is
now densely settled. Because of traditional ethnic landholding patterns
some higher potential land is not fully utilized. M1ounting pressure on land
is resulting in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential
areas and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. The latter
also poses a serious threat of environmental degradation.



8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but has already created and is
creating other problems as well. First, there is the strong likelihood that,
unless population growth slows dramatically or ways are found to increase the
rate at which income earning opportunities in agriculture expand, excess rural
labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even if the non-agricuitural formal
wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the total labor force) grows very
rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb all the new urban labor force
entrants because of its small base. The result could be rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by rapidly rising population and the concomitant growth of demand
for social services, especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the
distribution of income will be impeded by the relative lack of access to
land and education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        Another fundamental problem that has been emerging involves the
pattern of the country's industrialization and its effects on export growth
and labor absorption. In general, industrialization has taken place behind
a wall of heavy protection afforded by tariffs, quotas, licensing and other
quantitative restrictions. Rapid growth of industry in the past has been
largely based on investments in fairly simple, import-substitution industries
by multinational companies. To a lesser extent, manufacturing production
was also oriented to the export market in neighboring countries, particularly
the protected East African Community (EAC) market. However, the scope for
further industrialization along these lines is limited, as most of the easy
or economic import-substitution possibilities have been exhausted and the EAC
preferences for Kenyan goods have been abolished. Thus, sustaining rapid
growth by continuing this strategy is not feasible. Moreover, this pattern
of industrialization has had some unfavorable side effects. First, the
industrial sector has become increasingly dependent on imported raw materials,
components and spare parts. Declines in exports or deteriorating terms of
trade which force reductions of imports, therefore, have heavy repercussions
on industrial production and employment. Second, the high levels of protec-
tion result in an "anti-export" bias by making it more profitable to produce
for the domestic market than to export. Finally, the structure of production
is relatively capital-intensive and is not sufficiently based on use of
domestic resources, including labor. To maintain rapid industrial growth it
will be necessary to change the system of industrial protection and incentives
to improve the efficiency of the sector and reorient industry toward increased
production for export, and increased use of domestic resources.
10.       As a result of the anti-export bias, exports have grown slowly and
there has been a lack of diversification of exports. Exports have consistently
grown at a slower pace than GDP. From 1964 to 1972 the volume of exports
expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export
volume increased by an additional 11% but it has not risen above the 1974
level since then. To some extent this reflects the fact that Kenya's exports
have been adversely affected by the collapse of the EAC and that there have
been production problems in agriculture and industry. Nevertheless, it is
clear that the pace of export growth must be accelerated and exports must



be further diversified if the balance of payments is not to become a major
constraint on long-term growth. This will require that the system of produc-
tion and investment incentives be changed so that more resources are directed
into efficient foreign exchange earning and/or saving sectors.
Recent Economic Performance
11.       The slow growth of exports and the increasing import-dependence
of industry have increased Kenya's vulnerability to developments outside her
boundaries. The country's economic performance over the last five years has
thus been strongly influenced, if not dominated, by dramatic variations in
the international terms of trade.
12.       During 1974-75 the increase in petroleum prices and accelerated
international inflation forced the Government to adopt fiscal, monetary, and
incomes policies aimed at restraining aggregate demand. These policies were
reasonably effective in protecting the country's international liquidity and
in keeping externally-generated price increases from spiralling out of control.
However, they resulted in a sharp slowdown in economic growth, which averaged
only 2.4% per year, compared to 6.6% during 1964-73.
13.       By 1976 another equally dramatic reversal of the country's economic
fortunes was already underway as international coffee prices, which eventually
tripled, were soaring. The Government decided, therefore, to accelerate the
pace of development. The public investment program was stepped up in part by
increasing expenditures needed to replace defunct EAC corporations by national
entities. In addition, a program of military equipment purchases was begun to
build up the country's international security. As a result, the overall
budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in FY1976/77 to an estimated 9%
in FY1978/79. At the same time credit policy was being eased and domestic
credit expanded by an average of nearly 30% per year in 1977-78. Finally
coffee producers were allowed to capture almost all the windfall gains
resulting from the extraordinary rise in coffee prices. The combination of
expansionary fiscal and monetary policy and high agricultural incomes produced
a resurgence of domestic demand. Economic growth accelerated, averaging 7.2%
in real terms in 1976-78 and the value of imports in 1978 exceeded that in
1976 by 85%.
14.       By the second half of 1977 coffee prices had passed their peak and
had begun to decline and the balance-of-payments situation began to deter-
iorate. The Kenyan Government's reaction was to gradually switch to a more
restrictive economic policy. The growth of credit was restrained somewhat
beginning in mid-1978. In the latter months of 1978 import license approvals
were slowed down to limit import growth. The Government negotiated a first
credit tranche Stand-by arrangement which was approved by the IMF in November,
1978. Finally, in December 1978, an advance import deposit scheme was insti-
tuted. However, with a 20% drop in exports due to falling coffee prices and
poor weather and the lagged effect of past expansionary policies on imports,
these measures were too mild and came too late to arrest the deterioration of
the current account balance, which shifted from an exceptional surplus of



- 5 -
US$58 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978. As a
result, despite a substantial increase in external capital inflows, foreign
exchange reserves declined by US$200 million in 1978.
15.       In summary, during the period covered by Kenya's Third Development
Plan, 1974-78, the country experienced wide swings in its international terms
of trade and in the growth of the economy: sharp deterioration of terms of
trade and low growth rates during 1974-75; resurgence of growth in 1976-77
following the coffee boom; and, deceleration in 1978-79. Overall, the growth
of the economy was disappointing, averaging only 4.7% per year over 1972-78.
These results reflected the inadequacies of a development strategy and policies
which created an increasingly less viable economic structure. As Kenya begins
execution of its Fourth Development Plan, it faces conditions which are, in
many ways, analogous to those at the beginning of the Third Plan in 1974, i.e.
rising petroleum prices, a slowing world economy and a relatively unfavorable
price outlook for its major exports.
The Fourth Development Plan:  Strategies and Prospects
16.       The emphasis of Kenya's Fourth Development Plan is on restoring
growth to the pace that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income-earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the populace, especially in rural areas.
The Plan recognizes that pursuing rapid growth of employment and income
in rural areas will require greater attention to problems of smallholder
agriculture and to expanding rural infrastructure. Further, it recognizes
that the process of industrial modernization and expansion through import
substitution has inhibited the growth of exports, both agricultural and
industrial, and that this process is reaching its limits. The emphasis
of the Plan is thus placed on reducing protection and expanding and diver-
sifying exports. Finally, the heavy burden rapid population growth is placing
on the economy is acknowledged and measures are proposed to limit growth.
Thus, the Plan correctly identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and
sets forth a development strategy appropriate to their solution.
17.       Agricultural Strategy.  The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link
between agricultural growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most sig-
nificant changes proposed in the Plan is increasing access to land through
legalizing subdivision of large farms in high-potential agricultural zones.
The Government will also have first option purchase rights on any parcel
of high potential land greater than 20 hectares which is offered for sale.
Any such land purchased by the Government would be made available for lease-
hold settlement of landless farmers. This is a major departure from recent
policy and could have important effects on output employment and income dis-
tribution. Once the status of existing small farms, which had been formed by
illegal subdivision, is regularized, they will become eligible for extension,



- 6 -
credit and other services common in smallholder areas. The Government is also
prepared to assist owners of large farms who wish to subdivide to do so.
18.       The Plan proposes that a National Land Commission be established to
review ways of encouraging land use intensification and labor absorption. The
Plan also proposes that marketing and pricing policies pay closer attention
to the structure of domestic and international prices and that the marketing
system be made more competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers.
Research and extension services are to be more closely linked to the needs
of small farmers. Finally, in addition to projects to increase larger scale
commercial and smallholder production, a series of integrated rural development
projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to redress the neglect of these areas.
19.       Industrial Strategy.  The major thrust of industrial policy during
the Fourth Plan period will be to effect a transition from import substitution
to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and export diversification.
The deficiencies of import substitution strategies, including their adverse
impact on income distribution, low employment generation and anti-export bias
were recognized in the Third Plan. That Plan did not, however, contain as
the Fourth does, a definite commitment to a scheduled rationalization of the
protective regime. This will involve further modification of tariffs and
elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year period.
This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next few years
when, because of balance-of-payments problems, there is likely to be consider-
able pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection. It is recognized
that reduction of protection and increased industrial efficiency, while
necessary to expanding and diversifying exports, may not be sufficient. The
Plan, therefore, recommends strengthening the Kenya External Trade Authority,
simplifying and rationalizing existing export incentives and adopting an
export credit guarantee and finance scheme.
20.       No fundamental change is proposed in Kenya's traditionally liberal
policy on foreign investment, with the important exception that review and
approval of projects for which special concessions or government participation
are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be centralized
in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a more limited
role for Government in terms of direct participation and intervention in the
industrial sector. Development of the informal sector and small industry will
be supported through provision of credit, extension services and technical
assistance and essential infrastructure. Licensing and regulation of small
business will be reviewed to avoid any unfair discrimination. Efforts will be
made to restructure industrial investment incentives to encourage employment
and regional decentralization.
21.       Population Policy.  The Plan is frank in acknowledging the heavy
burden rapid population growth is placing on the development effort and makes
promotion of family planning a matter of public policy of the highest priority.
It calls for a coordinated effort on the part of all relevant ministries and
non-governmental organizations involved in development activities related to



family life to increase public awareness of the desirability of family plan-
ning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000, compared to
280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the number of
field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300) and the
number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although Kenya
is doing more to promote family planning than most other African countries,
the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high (3.5%)
because of strong cultural and traditional factors affecting fertility and
even greater efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline
in fertility.
Economic Prospects
22.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target GDP growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due
to balance-of-payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more
severe and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.
The balance-of-payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout
the Plan period for three reasons. First, export prospects are not favorable
for most of the period. It is estimated that export revenues have increased
only marginally in 1979 after their significant fall in 1978. Coffee export
volumes are down because of poor weather and the recent increase in world
coffee prices has not benefitted Kenya because the normal timing of its
harvest brought the crop to market before the increase in price. Second,
Kenya has also been adversely affected by the most recent round of oil price
increases. It is estimated that the average price being paid for crude oil in
1979 was 38% above that in 1978. The terms of trade are projected to remain
unfavorable until 1982-83. Third, there will be a rapid rise in amortization
payments over the next few years because of the significant increase in the
level of commercial borrowing to finance expenditures associated with equip-
ment of successors to EAC corporations and other large projects and to carry
out a major program to re-equip the armed forces in 1977-78. Payments asso-
ciated with purchase commitments made during this period will have a substan-
tial impact on the balance of payments throughout the Plan period. The
budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the Plan. The lower
rate of growth of the economy and of imports will mean lower growth of govern-
ment revenues. In addition, the President has recently announced several
measures which are not included in the Plan but which will have significant
direct budgetary consequences. These measures include: (a) provision of
free milk for students in the first seven years of school; (b) elimination
of school fees for the sixth year of elementary school; (c) initiation of
a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase in employment in the
public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage restraint. Payments
on military purchases already made will also increase budgetary pressure.



23.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has adopted, among other measures, a comprehensive economic program aimed
at limiting the loss of foreign exchange reserves to KL 50 million (US$133
million) for 1979-80 combined and at gradually reducing the rate of inflation
to less than 10% by 1980/81 (compared to 12% in 1979). The major policy
targets involved in accomplishing this will be a reduction in the overall
deficit of the Government from 9% of the GDP to about 6% in 1979/80, a sub-
stantial reduction in domestic borrowing by the Government, a moderate expan-
sion of credit to the private sector, and a continuation of incomes' policy
which holds wage increases below the inflation rate. The Government's program
has also been incorporated into a stand-by arrangement with the International
Monetary Fund. The agreement, which is for a period of two years, involves
the upper credit tranches, through the fourth, including the use of the
Special Fund Facility, and will make an amount equivalent to about US$157.0
million available to Kenya. In addition, Kenya has been permitted to purchase
the equivalent of US$89.0 million under the Fund's compensatory financing
facility. The first drawing under the stand-by agreement has already been
made and subsequent drawings are scheduled quarterly, ending March 31, 1981.
In addition to attaining access to IMF resources, the Government has signed a
US$200 million Eurocurrency loan which it views, however, largely as reserve
liquidity.
External Debt
24.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio, which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 11.2% in 1979. This includes service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid-1980's and decline
gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total
debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share-of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 22% by 1985, while IDA's share
would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total outstand-
ing external debt and IDA 9%. The Bank's share is expected to rise to 26% and
IDA's to 15% by 1985. The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to
anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor,
however, is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
(including conversion of some loans to grants).
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of
the East African Community (EAC)
25.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and
more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive
Directors at the Board meeting held on January 4, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht,
the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is completing his
work on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corporations. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former EAC corporations



- 9 -
has in some cases required large expenditures but the burden should be tem-
porary, as the new corporations are expected to become self-financing. The
closure of the border with Tanzania has had some effect on trade -- Tanzania
was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods but new markets are being
developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were small, replacing these has not
been a major problem except for specific commodities (i.e. tobacco and cotton).
The border closure has also had a slightly negative impact on tourism, although
Kenya is expected to overcome this by developing additional beach resorts and
game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 33 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 27 IDA credits amounting to US$994.1 million, which support
52 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development
of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for
industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East
African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects as of January 31, 1980.
27.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, particu-
larly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also focused
on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed interna-
tional economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to comprehen-
sively address the issues of income distribution, population growth, and
appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies.
28.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1978 include an Engineering
Project (Olkaria Geothermal), a Narok Agricultural Development Project, a
Sugar Rehabilitation Project, a Rural Water Supply Project, a First Tele-
communications Project, a Highway Sector Project, a Smallholder Coffee
Improvement Project, the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project, the Baringo Pilot
Semi-Arid Areas project, a Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
and the Structural Adjustment credits to help address Kenya's balance of
payments difficulties. A fisheries project has been appraised and a technical
assistance credit for export promotion to complement the structural adjustment
credits is also being considered. Both of these projects are expected to be
ready for consideration by the Executive Directors later this fiscal year. In
addition, a railways project has been appraised, while an urban transport
project, a fifth education project, an industrial project for expansion of
soda ash production and a second population project are under preparation.



- 10 -
29.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory. Progress
on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project, however, has been slow due to admin-
istrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to participate. Kenya
also has experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road construction
projects, but Government has made funds available to complete these projects.
Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project (now in the
preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy cost overruns are
likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under discussion with
the Government and the co-financers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$42.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of January 31, 1980, IFC held for its own account US$31.7
million comprising US$23.7 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
OBJECTIVES, INSTITUTIONS AND STRATEGY
31.       Over the past decade manufacturing has been one of the most dynamic
sectors in the Kenyan economy, with value added in the sector growing at an
average rate of 10.5% in real terms between 1972 and 1978. The sector is,
however, still relatively small, contributing 13% of GDP and accounting for
13% of modern sector employment in 1977. Between 1972 and 1977 manufacturing
output grew in real terms at an annual average rate of 9.9%, recovering
strongly after declining in 1975 essentially as a result of balance of pay-
ments constraints on imports provoked by the 1973-74 international oil crisis.
Employment in the sector has grown steadily from 94,500 in 1973 to 122,000 in
1978. The increase in manufacturing employment, however, has not kept pace
with growth in either output or investment, indicating an increasing capital
intensiveness of production. Nevertheless, rapid growth of the sector has
brought about shortages of Kenyans who are qualified and experienced technical
and managerial personnel.
32.       For reasons relating to infrastructure, services and market proxi-
mity, manufacturing in Kenya is regionally concentrated in six urban centers,
Nairobi (50% of industrial output in 1972) being the most important, followed
by Mombasa (19%). Four smaller industrial growth poles--Kisumu, Nakuru, Thika
and Eldoret--accounted together for 13% of 1972 output. By size, Kenyan indus-
trial production is highly concentrated in 420 firms and establishments in
1976, which contributed 86% of output and 89% of value added in that year.
33.       Government policies to promote accelerated industrial growth since
Independence have favored private sector development and foreign investment.



- 11 -
In the 1970s, however, Government has been more active in investing in
industry either directly or through parastatals and State-owned development
banks. State participations in industry are mostly concentrated in large
modern plants and range from small minority to majority holdings. Kenya also
has a dynamic and aggressive industrial and entrepreneurial class which, while
still predominantly foreign, is becoming increasingly Kenyan, as Government
has pursued policies aimed at gradual "Kenyanization" of managerial positions
as well as encouraging Kenyan entrepreneurship.
34.       The Government has employed a broad range of policy instruments
to encourage both domestic and foreign investment in the industrial sector.
The domestic market has been heavily protected through tariff and non-tariff
barriers to imports. The Government has traditionally followed a liberal
policy on repatriation of capital and profits by foreign firms. These were
virtually unrestricted until the end of 1978 when, due to balance of payments
constraints, dividend transfers abroad were temporarily limited. There is
an export compensation scheme which provides a payment equivalent to 10% of
the value of non-traditional exports. There are plans to change this to a
differential export-subsidy based on local content. Regional decentralization
is being encouraged by investment allowances for projects outside of Nairobi
and Mombasa. Under the Fourth Plan these will be modified into differential
investment allowances favoring investments in rural areas and in labor-
intensive processes.
35.       A number of ministries and government agencies are involved in the
formulation and implementation of industrial policies. Tariff and trade
policy with respect to industrial protection is the responsibility of the
Directorate of Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). 1/ The
Directorate of Industries in MCI has prime responsibility for industrial
policy and monitoring of industrial activities. An inter-ministerial New
Projects Committee (NPC) screens and approves all new industrial projects.
The Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre (ISPC), an agency of MCI iden-
tifies and evaluates new projects and, where possible, assists in their
implementation. The Kenya External Trade Authority (KETA), a semi-autonomous
public agency, provides assistance to Kenyan exporters in the areas of product
development, marketing, trade information, freight problems and handicraft
export. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the administration of
price controls, tax incentives, export promotion incentives and monitors the
Government's investment portfolio.
36.       While institutionally well diversified, the industrial policy
framework in Kenya has suffered from (i) inadequate coordination between
the various institutions; (ii) shortage of qualified professional manpower;
(iii) inconsistencies in the application of industrial policies as a result
of ad hoc decision making; and (iv) delays and uncertainties in the adminis-
tration of industrial policies. These problems have been identified by the
Government and in some cases corrective measures have either been taken or
are being considered. For example, a Bank staff member has been seconded
1/   This Ministry has recently been divided into a Ministry of Industry
and a Ministry of Commerce.



- 12 -
to the Government as part of a team of trade experts who would assist with the
preparation of technical studies required to reform the country's protective
regime to produce a more uniform and rational system.
37.       Regarding industrial incentives, the Government is considering a
systematic review by the NPC of the technical, financial and economic viability
of all proposed projects before any decision on incentives, financial assis-
tance or special treatment is taken. The Government has declared its intention
to strengthen the Directorate of Industries to enable it to undertake reviews
of industrial policy measures, monitor industrial developments as well as
implement the objectives of the current national Plan. To assist with the
formulation of policies regarding research and development and the application
of industrial technologies useful for Kenya, the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) has provided an Industrial Technology Adviser attached to the
National Council for Science and Technology. Other export promotion measures
which the Government is considering in support of its industrial restructuring
objectives, include an export insurance and financing program and the sim-
plification of the present administratively cumbersome system of export
incentives.
38.       The Bank has maintained a continuous and active dialogue with the
Government concerning Kenya's industrialization policies, and has also pro-
vided technical assistance on specific industrial policy issues. The major
new emphasis in industrialization strategy proposed in the Fourth Development
Plan i.e. to encourage greater efficiency in local production, improve inter-
national competitiveness and promote exports, is aimed at effectively increas-
ing the industrial sector's contribution to Kenya's future economic develop-
ment. The policy measures proposed to implement the strategy, however, will
only gradually take effect, in particular because of the present structure of
Kenyan industry and presently prevailing macroeconomic constraints, but
deserve the Bank's support. The proposed loan to IDB will contribute to this,
as will the Structural Adjustment credits which will provide balance of
payments support to assist, inter alia, in the restructuring of the trade
regime.
Development Finance Institutions
39.       For a country at its stage of economic development, Kenya has a
sophisticated network of financial institutions. These have expanded signi-
ficantly in recent years in response to the Government's openness to private
sector initiative and minimum regulation of their activities by the Central
Bank. These institutions include 16 commercial banks, five development banks,
15 non-bank financial institutions and a small stock exchange.
40.       Of the five development banks, the Development Finance Company of
Kenya (DFCK), the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), the East African Development
Bank (EADB) and the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) confine their operations



- 13 -
to the industrial sector. The Industrial and Commercial Development Corpora-
tion (ICDC) operates in both industrial and commercial sectors. These banks
have clearly delineated fields of activity and there is little duplication of
efforts in the financing of the industrial sector. The EADB has been seriously
affected by the break-up of the East African Community and its role is being
reformulated. ICDC, the largest source of financing in Kenya for both public
and private sectors, is often used by the Government to assist in the execu-
tion of its industrial investment policies. KIE focuses solely on the devel-
opment of small-scale enterprises mainly through the creation of industrial
estates. DFCK directs its activities primarily to the larger private foreign-
owned enterprises, particularly the expansion of well established ones. It
has also brought through its overseas majority shareholders, important tech-
nical advice and foreign partners into Kenya's industrial sector. The IDB
(paras. 43-53) is the predominant institution specializing in the provision
of term and equity financing to medium and large industrial enterprises,
particularly to cover their foreign exchange requirements.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed loan to IDB would be the fourth to this institution by
the Bank Group since 1973. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "A Fourth IBRD
Loan to the Industrial Development Bank" (No. 2633-KE of February 20, 1980) is
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The proposed project
was appraised in April 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in January,
1980 and the Kenyan delegation was led by Mr. F. Ondieki, Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Industry. A Loan and Project Summary is at the front of this
report. A Supplementary Project Data sheet is in Annex III.
Objectives
42.       The proposed project would support industrial development in Kenya
in line with the Government's strategy under the Fourth Development Plan.
This strategy will involve a gradual shift from import substitution towards
export-oriented industrialization. The project would provide a continuation
of Bank support for IDB, a key financial institution in the industrial sector.
The Project Institution: The Industrial Development Bank
Ownership and Board of Directors
43.       IDB has a current authorized Class "A" ordinary share capital of
KShs200 million, with KShs129.3 million fully paid in as of December 31, 1979.
IDB also has authorized Class "B" ordinary shares of KShs4O million, with
KShs29.2 million fully paid as of December 31, 1979. The shareholders under a
new share capital subscription agreement, are the Government (49%) and ICDC,
the Kenya National Assurance Company (KNAC), the National Bank of Kenya (NBK)
and the Kenya Reinsurance Corporation (KRC) each of whom own 12.75% of IDB's
share capital. Class "B" ordinary shares do not under normal circumstances
carry voting rights but participate in dividends equally with Class "A"



- 14 -
shares. All the subscribed Class "B" ordinary shares are presently held by
the Government but other shareholders are also free to subscribe to Class "B"
shares.
44.       IDB's Board of Directors consists of eight members:  two directors
appointed for 2-year terms represent the four institutional sharenolders
(ICDC, KNAC, NBK and KRC) and six directors appointed for 3-year terms con-
sist of two Government representatives, three independents, appointed by the
Minister of Finance (two from the private sector), and IDB's 21anaging Director.
The Board has full autonomy in investment and lending decisions and has exer-
cised this authority adequately.  It is also active in formulating general
policy and overseeing the operations of the bank. Recently, an Executive
Director of the Commonwealth Development Corporation who is an experienced
Kenyan businessman and has been an IDB Director since its inception, was
named the new Chairman.
Management and Staff
45.       IDB has a strong and capable management and staff.  Its organiza-
tional structure consists of four departments: Operations (Investigations,
Research and Promotion, Investments and Project Advisory Services (PAS)
divisions); Accounts (Internal Auditor and two divisions); Legal; and Estab-
lishment.  As of January, 1979 IDB had a total staff of 33 professionals.
Their quality in terms of academic and professional background is excellent
at all levels.  Only three expatriates -- an Industrial Economist and a
Financial Adviser (both UNDP financed) and the PAS Manager (ODM financed)
-- hold positions in IDB.
46.       While IDB's organization has been adequate to meet past require-
ments, rapid growth had begun to place increasing strains on the organization.
To overcome these, IDB has now taken organizational steps to assure that: (i)
the appraisal process provides a more critical evaluation of the risks and
issues associated with new loan and equity investment proposals; and, (ii) the
rapidly increasing supervision workload is rationally planned, responsibility
for action on problem projects effectively assigned and comprehensive follow-
up of equity investments established. IDB will, therefore, maintain its
recently revitalized management committee with responsibilities that would
include screening all new loan and equity investment proposals and the regular
review of the status of projects (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
IDB will formalize and expand its asset management functions within its
finance department (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To comple-
ment the measures above, IDB has adopted a formal statement outlining its
strategy of consolidation and selective growth for the next several years.
The strategy includes a limitation on the number of employees to 1979 budgeted
levels and increased emphasis on administrative cost control.
Operations and Finance
47.       Until 1979 IDB had been one of the fastest growing DFCs in Africa.  As
of December 31, 1979 it had approved, net of cancellations, 83 loans totalling



- 15 -
KShs459 million in 71 enterprises. IDB had also approved net equity invest-
ments totalling KShs122.9 million in 41 enterprises. Primarily as a result of
its consolidation strategy, IDB's total approvals decreased from KShs145 mil-
lion in 1978 to KShs135 million in 1979 with new equity approvals decreasing
sharply. Between 1974 and 1978, IDB's total value of approvals increased by
14.2% annually; loan approvals had grown in real terms at 17.3% and equity
investments at 7.2% annually. IDB's growth rate considerably exceeds the
estimated growth in capital formation in manufacturing in Kenya (estimated at
about 5% annually in real terms during 1974-77). This achievement is attribut-
able to active management, successful resource mobilization and IDB's will-
ingness to accept risk. About 11% of the value of IDB's investment approvals
have been for projects KShslO million or less in size, and 21% for projects
over KShslOO million. The average size of IDB investment is about KShs7.5
million; about 23% are investments of over KShs12 million. The portfolio is
reasonably well balanced among sectors, with a relative concentration in
engineering, metals and machinery, and food and beverages. An analysis of
recent projects approved shows (i) that a significant proportion of the raw
materials required came from Kenyan sources; and (ii) that the proportion of
the number of projects with majority Kenyan ownership and those located
outside Nairobi and Mombasa has increased in recent years, although the
percentage of total value for such project approvals decreased somewhat due to
their smaller size.
48.       Foreign and local currency loans approved by IDB prior to September
1979 carried interest rates of 11% and 12% per annum respectively. These
interest rates have since then been increased to 12.5% and 13% per annum
respectively. IDB passes the foreign exchange risks on its loans onto its
clients. In addition to interest, IDB charges a commitment fee on undisbursed
balances which was also increased from 1% to 1.25% per annum. IDB will
maintain interest rates on foreign exchange denominated loans at not less than
12% per annum during the commitment period of this loan (Section 3.07(b)(ii)
of draft Loan Agreement). The 1979 inflation rate of 12% in Kenya is expected
to decrease to 10% in 1980 and remain at that level through 1982. Thus the
lending rates would be positive in real terms. The Government is currently
undertaking a review of its interest rate policy in order to identify modifi-
cations required to improve its effectiveness in promoting economic develop-
ment. The review is expected to be completed in April 1980.
49.       Partly because of its willingness to accept risk, IDB's loan and
equity portfolios in the past two years began to experience some deteriora-
tion. New equity approvals, which tend to be of higher risk than loans,
represented only 10% of total approvals in 1979 (compared with 26% in 1978)
and equity investments at December 31, 1979 were a still relatively high 26%
of total portfolio (down from 31.5% in 1978). As of December 31, 1979, IDB
had arrears of about KShs19.5 million in its loan portfolio. The more serious
arrears related to 10 projects with a total balance outstanding of about
KShs54 million or 21% of the portfolio. While IDB has until recently no
formal problem project classification, thirteen projects might be described as
problem projects, mainly caused by weak financial performance due to, among



- 16 -
other reasons, competition, management and marketing problems. Large write-
offs of losses on equity investments in the last two years and the anticipated
need for future write-offs relating generally to the investment in problem
projects are having an adverse effect on IDB's profitability.
50.       To improve its equity portfolio situation, IDB will limit its total
equity investments during the commitment period for the proposed line of
credit to not more than 80% of its subscribed capital consisting of Class "A"
shares to which full voting rights are attached (Section 3.07(b)(i) of draft
Loan Agreement). To improve its profits, IDB's Board recently authorized the
management to investigate divesting in companies where its continued equity
participation would affect long term profitability. IDB will also create
provisions in its accounts in accordance with sound commercial and accounting
practices to cover future losses in respect to equity and loan investments
(Section 3.07(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). IDB will make future provisions
for losses which will accumulate to no less than 3% of its portfolio by 1982
and will be adequate to fully provide for possible losses. Furthermore, it is
expected that the management committee review process and the expansion of the
asset management functions within IDB (para 46) should allow for closer
supervision of the equity portfolio and quick remedial action to be taken on
problem projects.
Forecast of Operations
51.       IDB's pipeline of proposed projects at the time of appraisal con-
sisted of 42 projects. These projects show a greater orientation than in the
past towards Kenyan majority owned enterprises. Import substitution projects
are expected to continue to constitute about 80% of IDB's anticipated
approvals. However, in the future when the impact of the Government's poli-
cies to emphasize export-oriented industrial projects is more fully felt, it
is expected that IDB's operations would reflect this change in industrial
strategy.
52.       IDB was approved as a non-bank financial institution in mid-1979,
thus permitting it to raise additional local currency through accepting time
deposits (mostly from publicly owned financial intermediaries) and to finance
working capital. IDB has decided to limit its initial activities in these
areas to financing imported raw materials for its clients and processing
letters of credit for transactions it is financing. With IBRD's agreement,
IDB also plans to amend its Statement of Policy to allow for lending to the
transport and shipping sectors and the acquisition of shares of profitable
companies on the Nairobi Stock Exchange as part of its portfolio management to
maximise the use of temporarily idle resources. The expansion of lending for
other working capital financing, and to include industrial buildings which IDB
is also considering, would represent substantive changes in IDB's Statement of
Policy and would require the approval of the Bank.
Resource Structure
53.       IDB's resources have come largely from external sources.  As of
December 31, 1978 it had negotiated total foreign exchange resources of about



- 17 -
KShs416 million (US$56.0 million) of which the Bank's three previous loans
constitute 62%. Other lenders include the German Development Company (DEG),
the African Development Bank (ADB), Morgan Grenfell and Company (with the
guarantee of the British government's Export Credit Guarantee Department
(ECGD-UK) and the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI). On Decem-
ber 31, 1978, IDB had the equivalent of KShs161.5 million in foreign exchange
resources uncommitted which was adequate to meet its requirements until mid-
1980. From mid 1980 to end 1982, IDB's foreign exchange needs are estimated
at US$46.3 million (KShs347 million) of which US$6.0 million and US$2.4
million have already been secured from the ADB and the IDBI respectively. The
proposed Bank loan would provide US$30.0 million to help cover a substantial
part of the estimated gap of about US$38 million. Banque Arabe pour le
Developpement Economique de l'Afrique (BADEA) has agreed in principle to
provide at least US$5.0 million on a parallel financing basis in conjunction
with the proposed Bank loan and IDB should have no problems in securing the
remaining US$3 million. The proposed US$30.0 million Bank loan would repre-
sent about 65% of IDB's foreign exchange needs from mid 1980 to end 1982.
54.       It is estimated that IDB's local currency requirements over the next
three years would be KShs95 million. This gap would be financed primarily
through the issuance of additional "Class A" shares. IDB has obtained agree-
ment in principle to increase paid-in capital from Class "A" shares by an
additional KShs71 million from end 1979 levels to a total of KShs200 million
by the end of 1982. IDB's future ability to borrow long term in the local
market will also be enhanced by its new status as a non-bank financial insti-
tution.
55.       The implementation of the proposed consolidation strategy and
other recommended measures should improve IDB's asset management and adminis-
trative efficiency and thereby improve IDB's profits. After a loss in 1979
due largely to conservatively large provisions for losses in the portfolio, it
is estimated that IDB's after tax profits would rise steadily to a modest 4.5%
of average net worth by 1983. Total assets are projected to increase at an
average rate of 24% annually reaching KShs875 million (US$117.0 million) in
1983. The long term debt to equity ratio will increase to 2.6:1 which remains
sound. IDB's liquidity position is expected to remain satisfactory. By 1983,
projected accumulated provisions are projected to reach an adequate 3.5% of
IDB's loan and equity portfolio.
Performance Under Previous Bank Loans
56.       Three loans totalling US$35.0 million have been provided to IDB since
1973. Of this amount, US$30.7 million had been committed and US$19.5 million
disbursed at February 25, 1980. The first loan (Loan 946-KE) of US$5.0 million
is fully disbursed. The second loan (Loan 1148-KE) is also fully committed,
while the third line of credit (Loan 1438-KE) is 79% committed. Subprojects
approved by IDB have made substantial contributions to Kenya's industrial
development. Under the first two loans, IDB financed 20 subprojects of which
16 have been completed. When fully operational, the subprojects will involve



- 18 -
an estimated total investment of US$209 million and create about 7,400 jobs at
a cost of about US$28,000 per job which is comparable to other DFCs in East
Africa. The projects will produce estimated annual foreign exchange gains of
about US$36.0 million. During 1977-78, IDB participated financially in 44
projects whose total cost was KShs2460 million. Disbursements made by IDB in
1977 represented about 6.5% of gross capital formation in manufac- ring in
Kenya in that year. Generally, the Bank's experience with IDB regarding
commitments and disbursements in the past has been satisfactory. IDB has
responded in a cooperative and effective manner in dialogue with the Bank
concerning institution building as IDB rapidly evolved as one of the leading
financial institutions in Kenya.
Project Description
57.       The proposed project would consist of a line of credit of US$30.0
million of Bank funds to cover part of IDB's foreign exchange requirements to
finance medium and large scale enterprises from mid 1980 to end 1982. The
free limit for a subproject would be raised from US$600,000 to US$800,000
(similar, in real terms, for the previous loans) and the aggregate free limit
to US$7.0 million. Disbursements from the Bank's loan would be made against
100% of the foreign cost of direct imports, 65% of the invoice price of goods
previously imported into Kenya and 40% of the cost of civil works. IDB would
be charging an interest rate of no less than 12% on foreign funds (from 11%),
and 13% on local funds (from 12%) (para. 48). Sub-borrowers will continue to
bear the foreign exchange risk on foreign funds. The loan would carry an
interest rate of 8.25% per annum and the amortization schedule would conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of subloans and
equity investments made by IDB, with a maximum maturity of 15 years, including
a grace period of three years.
Project Justification
58.       IDB has established itself within the past five years as a major
institution for providing funds and expertise for developing and assisting
Kenya's manufacturing sector. Continued support for the institution at a
time when Kenya's industrial policies are being refocused and IDB faces a
period of consolidation should assist IDB to further improve its internal
quality control and supervision of existing projects. The proposed loan
would finance projects with a total cost of about KShs1600 million during
the period mid 1980 to end 1982. These projects are expected to create
5,500 jobs at an average cost of $38,800 per job and increasingly support the
country's export orientation objectives.
Risks
59.       The loan carries no particular risks except those normally asso-
ciated with DFC lending. However, such risks would be minimal in view of
IDB's good past performance, sound management and the Bank Group's familiarity
with IDB's operations.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Industrial Development Bank and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of draft resolutions
approving the proposed loan is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. These draft Agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans to
development finance companies.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Loan will comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 5, 1980



- 20-                                           ANEX I
Page I
KEYA-SOCIAL INDICATOIS DATA SHEET
ENYA                      RIRER.ENCz GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYCRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ0. LMC)                                             --  0ST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           582.6                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     59.4                                MOST RICEZNT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTI.ATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (US 5                110.0       170.0    320.0            306.1      209.6       467.5
ENERCY CONSLQI,ON PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAJ  OF COAL EQUIVLENT)     143.0       135.0    152.0             80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. M-YEAR (MILLIONS)       8.0        11.3      14.6
ULAN POPULATION (PERCENT or TOTAL) 7.4         10.2      11.8            17.1       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     30.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RZACHD                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1CM.                     14.0        19.0      2.5.0           18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0      191.0    246.0             50.8      252.0       149.0
POPULATIO6N AGE STRUCTrE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        46.5        45.8      47.0            44.1       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        51.0        51.6      50.0            52.9       53.2       51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.1         2.6       3.0             2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.2         3.4       3.8             2.7        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.8         6.6       7.0             5.7        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        50.0      51.0            46.3       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0        15.0      14.0            17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCtION RATE              ..         3.4       3.8             3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF M!AUlED WOMEN)   ..         2.2        ..             ..        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        103.0       102.0      89.0           94.3       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 103.0        98.0      91.0            89.5      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         75.0        71.0      59.6            55.8       52.1       54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      32.0        29.0      22.8            17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    25.0        18.0      14.0            22.3       18.5        11.4
HEALTR
LIFE WECTANCT AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.0          52.0      53.0            47.0      49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         126.0/f    119.0         ..             ..       105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        15.0      17.0            20.3       26.3       34.4
URBAN                              ..       100.0    100.0             53.9       58.5       57.9
RURAL                              *-         2.0       4.0            10.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        50.0      55.0            22.5       16.0       40.8
URBAN                              ..        85.0      98.0            62.5      65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..        45.0      48.0            13.9        3.5       27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0      7830.O/  8840.0L         17424.7   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    232O.O/f,a  170O.O         ? 1070.BO  2506.6    5552.4     1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           830.0/f    770.0    760.0/i           502.3    1417.1       726.5
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           201.4      197.3      272.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..           1403.6    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            23.4      24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                         4.7                      4.9         5.3        5.4
URBA,N                             .          4.7                      4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              *-         4.7                      5.5         5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                             2.5/f        ..        ..
RURAL...                                                 ......
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DOWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..       22.5        28.1
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..        17.8       45.1
RUBAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         9.9



-21 -                                        ANNEX I
Pate 2
FZ2ftA A- 50CL INDICATORS DATA SHET
&EFERMNCE GROUPS (AADJUSTED A ERGES
,MST RECENTT TSITIYT-
SAME        SAME      sEm  HIGRFR
115T RECENT       0OGRAPSIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        RECG01N /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATIOM
ADJ'STED f.NOLLMENT LATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         64.0      105.0             59.0        63. 3       82.7
MALE                  64.0         74.0     112.0             64.2        79.1         87.3
FP2AL                 30.0         53.0      98.0             44.2        48.4         75.8
SECONDART:   TOTAL                   2.0         9.0       15.0              9.0        16.7        21.4
MALE                   3.0         12.0      19.0             12.0        22.1         33.0
FMLtU                  2.0          5.0      11.0              4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL EN1OL. (1 OF SEC0ODhRY)    ..           2.0        2.0              7.0         5.6         9.8
PWIL-TLACUI RATIO
PrIARY                             42.0         34.0       33.0             42.2       11.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           15.0        21.0       24.0             22.9       2'.7         23.4
ADULT LlTERACY RAZ (PUCEXE)           20.0/1f     30.0       40.0             20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSUPlTION
PASSLNGER CARS PM THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0          9.0        7.3              4.0        2.8          9.3
ADIO LZCZIVUS PCR TOUSAND
POULATION                           9.0           ..       38.0             ".3        27.2         76.9
TV SECEIVS PER THOUSAND
POPULATiON                           ..          1.5        3.0              2.9         2.4        13.5
NESPAPER ("DAILY CUERL
INTECRST") CRCULATION PER
tiOUSAND POPULATION                  13.0         14.0       10.0              5.6        5.3         18.3
CIMENA ANNUAL ATMEDAWCS PI  CAPITA  1.0             ..        0.4              0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOAL LASOR FORCE (TdOUSANDS)       3300.0       5100.OLI 6100.0
MMALE (PERCENT)                    34.8         33.6       33.3             31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTUR  (PERCENT)              85.8         82.1       79.0             77.6       69.4         62.7
DWDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.1          7.1        9.0              7.9       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RAT! (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.2        40.6       39.2             40.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                  54.5        53.8       52.3             53.9       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                               28.2         27.4       26.1             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATILO               1.2         1.1        1.2              1.2         1.2          1.4
MNCOME DISTRIIUTIQN
PERCENT O?f PRIVATZ INCmE
IECEIVED S7
5IGEEST 5 PERCT Or BOUSUOLOS          .         20.2/k                         .          .         15.2
IIGUKST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSZROLDS                52.6/k                                    .         48.2
LOUEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  3.97k                        .           .          6.3
tLEST 40 PERCENT 0O FOUSUOLDS         ..        11.77?z      .                ..                    16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI4ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .           .       122.0            187.6       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 .            .       93.0             96.S       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RILATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                  ..           .      125.0           138.4        91.9        179.7
I3L                                   ..          ..       71.0             71.0       54.3        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION LElON US4L0OTE
POVERTY ENCOME LEVtL (?!RENT)
RN                                    .                    25.0            34.5        44. 1        24.8
RUtAL                                 ..          ..       80.0            48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    te  d5juated group averages for each indicator are population-weighted jeometr:: means, excluding :he extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries amsong the
indicators deoende on availability of data end Ls not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwetn 1959 and 1961; for 1970  beeween  1969
nd 1971; and for ost Rlecent Estimate, between 1974 end 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   Id  Low Tncome ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  le  Lower Middle Income
1T2S8-550 per capita. 1976);  7f  lf2;  L/   Registered, noc all practicing in che country;   /h  1978;
/1  1972;  /j  Labor force age 15-50 years;   /k  urban only.
Most Recent Estimate of GYP per capita as for 1978.
Aust, 1979



- 22 -                                                                           ANNEX I:
tj ten:Ait hass   the d.0. ar  d-aa  f-e  souce  g.nere.14 Jdged the meat .st&nrtiftan              WAn  relle .a It should al   he meted toon they  w  not heiners
t    ,maly o,aable berate  of the lack of steaderded deflaitiODS ad oeis9oet  weed by differet cosatries im CoIlleting the data. The date ae,   eothless,
usefu  to das-rtbooders of, mpltode  indIcate traode, Ad charoterioe etoset               W.,  ifeene  betve    ocaemtsi..
The~   dacosaergs  or  no  fdletrn.plopaatie-eeightad  -o.tei  mass   - e                    diong the .etr-   -I... of tt indictor mad th. moat poplatd
oo,ntrW'i~jF&ij"'~i t  jek o  daa,  rop avrege  Of all india-tor  for Capitol ftrplo  Oil Zoperter  med of indicator, of A.o.es to Water end Ieret.
Dikposl, Hoosing, I-om   Distribution  end Povrty for other rountep porpe m   p0oplation-weghtsd gsa-mtrio  fe  without esolcime of the .tmtre  onions end
the meat  poplated rotry.  Stern the  oereo   nnre                        the lSggjL=    MM ad  me eMlai   of data p    s   etrefoerm. ration  st be  -serisd
indicator at a  I    meate  onry sod e-fernee coups.
inSARI  (toosd oq.ke.)                                                                       Aoeen  Tto  ee. 7Disen   (panatwiofpouai)                          1Lt'  obe9 md rrel 
Wf.ltrl      tt r-rt ostinato of agiboultorl are  used tera-rily                    perreatgee of thetr respettee poplations  born. dieposni ooy teold.
or perenetly for crops, pasiuro, maket end kitoha gardene or to                            the rIolertio   ad  disposal, nith  r sithout t-etasmt, of hsin   srreto
lie  fllow.                                                                                mmd vets-eater by ente-borne  wysten or the sass of pit privias and s,ailr
iLP nCAPTAJ.pSl) - tIP per caPita estites  at curret ashe   pieto                           7Po. g99g.po         lemk a - Popluition dividedtby ooaher of praoitoiog pbysieisn
adpe     conerion method en World Desk Atlas (1976-78 basis);                                       MaiL  Sebhol at university   _les.
i960. i970, end 1978 data.                                                                 Pouainer           eina Porno. - Poploatio. dlvided by toter of practietog aIr
A- Anua  ogneumptim  of oo-rna.1 en--d  eaegrhaeram. prmettoal wosn,md ereistatnuss
Jramelplij,tol6 ,   aurlga   ndhdo- PomaAd   e-Ponulati_n                                             Iosa  le-total,t  barks  ad rura  - Popsalation  (total, orbo,
thermal electricity) in kilogram   of coa  equivalet per ompiti; 1960                        en   ua    ite   yterraetv  oie    fbeia esanlbet
1970, and 1976 dais.                                                                         publio and pr,ivate generl and eprtLLoed hetyital and rebabilitetioc reters
Hsapittela are eatblite.tnt  psrmaoetls etaffe  by at loaet one phymiiota.
POPUIATION ANI VITAL STATISTICS                                                                tetabtishooets proiding prinipaly outodil car  ar  Oct inolded. Rura
Total PomitThiCt Yl-Yea.       llloo      - As of ju1y i; i960, 1970, and                    hospitale, hb.e..r, include health end medioa1 oeoters not peresetip  staffed
9rdata.                                                                                 by a pkysiiots (ot byr a medioa.. asistant, nus, midoife, eto.) whiok offer
Irsthuatb   Rorrt  ftta)-Ptio of urban to total popolatiob;                                  io-patient aooindatto   ad pr-id  e limited rags of aedioal facilities,
diffeot dfiniions  f uran arao my affeot co.peraility of data                 A9ppaiasjo zitd    - Ttria  ouser of skinaioa. to or diaocnrgee f-o
omog  -oune,;e; 1960, 1970, sod 1975 data                                                  boepitasi    bddy the oute.r of beds.
Popoiatiosi rJ.to ser...   -Crrc   ouaieprjcin    r  bsdc                               dJ
1)05  toa  population, by age  n   r  an'  thei  mor'tality sod fertility             Aesdieof iHosshd(esn  pe  bcehold-tal  urban  and ruea  -
ratre. Projeotfo   prsetr  fo  eoralty rates rpise of titr.bhueodcnssso.                                               ru  ofidleid al  to eh 1reivig qoerteen and
ic-el  aennlg  ife, epectnstoy nt birth Iooreaeing tith rosatry,                        the:ir salt  ed..  Abhoader or lodger -p or say not be lociudld In the
for copitsconlvl  and _finle life copeotano   stabilinins ai                            houshold for statistical purpera
'f.) year.. .The parnter  for fertility rate aLso. have then  levels                   A-oere toae_ of peso  per ro.'-' total, urban " end rura  - Acerage oushe
ass-ing dec1ioc  in fertility nocoeang to irom  leve  and past                          of p-.sono per room I  all urban,  ed rurl or-pird ronvetico..l dwlotngo,
fat      ly oloins perfornno, Each  ountry Is then assigned one of these                repectively.  Dcelings eoclude no-perunnet st-uture  end uroorpied p-rto
rte.  oraintloca. of rartality aod fertIlity tren.de for projection                   Aorea  tOfetirity  iperoen~t of d IInse) - wtotl, urbanod rural1 -  Cot-
purposco.                                                 entiooal  etitegs  ith electIciyi   iigquarters as p-r-etge of
Station,arypopulatio-  - in a  totatoony population there Is tor groth                   total, urban, and ruraldefio  repetvep
siornb  brt  rato  us  qol to the dleach rato, sod aso the age
structure rena-eso .otant. This is thtevd ooly after fertility rtes.                EItEATIONI
de-lite to~ the replacemet leo1 c  ucit vet reprodootiro rate   h. ben                ATjosted Dir1le-t Rtios
eth -ccrtlon of v `e replaces itorlf ..oactiy.  The stationay pope-                    Pioy    el-  tot  .  aeed fnale-Gros   total, male and fstle enrol-
istiotn~i-eaoeatiated or thc haei, of toe projected obrreito-et of dl ages at the priary lee  as I                                      p-ereotage  of repectiv   primary
of the popoltico  it the yea  2O00, rod cth  rate of devli.e of fertility                  school-age populations; normaly Inoludee ohild-e  eged 6-il year  btt
rate to replcect_ le .                                                                     adjueted foe different legth. of prim-y educatich; for rootrien nith
f.Ea  etatirear   1coltion Is reahed - The year ten  stationary poplatioc                    uivra  oduatioc enrollet may...oed 100 percent   blov  som   puuila
sirehas here reached,                                                                     ar  heirs or  bove the official achool age.
fPcuLation De..it                                                                            lecobr-     sho  b:irtotal  te an,   d femal  - Crepst.d ain a.c;_recnuso
Per ci. ke. - MAt-pea  population per squarer LIeter (100 heotsea) of                        ed  btonrqie      s  tleat fou  yer  of appr-ed Pr,sary Ictructioo;
totalac                                                                                    proides severl voctional, or teaher trnioil itoaruticot for ppl.
Per o-.  .-ci-ultura  land - C-onpted ne nhoce for agri-u1turaI lend                         unua lly of 12 to 17 yeses  f aego-sooec   oresoecnrl-ly
only,                                                                                       -ooludd.
PopuLlatIn A.Ftrcueprcn)-Child,-c  0-14 years),  -ceing-ege                                   otlo    oolet(ecnto   eodr)-lctoa                                tic totio-o  i-ci~dc
(15hiear),  od retrdT 5t5 yerlo-        0c)n  percetages 'f aid-yea                     ehia,idsra,  rohrporn    uboprt   ceedol   ra
population, igbO, 1970, and 1977 datu.                                                       depart-cto of  -nodary lostitutione..
Po-uatinlon.ae pecn)- tota   -t hoPua-h croe.t  4 - -g th rates of total mid-                Pupltahrrto-nr,  ~                 o   eods   Total otudentt r-rlid ic
yerpPolhos         fo 95-0, l 7,-so  1970-77.                                             pr ,ay and seodr.          eeadctdb.uneoo   ecesic,orc
PopulatinIro-t~h Rat   perent)- utan- AnnuL! groth -otos of orbs                                polg  ee
populatiocs for 1950-00, 1760-70, sot 1970-75.                     tiult liteac  rate (percent) - Literte adult,  )1,lc to  - rosal one) a
Crude Birth Race(p pethoucad) -    _no   Ice 1,4rtos per th.ousad of sid-                      apercettge of total  dadut populatioc aced 15 year  nodovr
Crude heath hate (pe   thuan) -   _ona   detbo Per tho-sod  t rid-per                    ONIoRflf
peoaie  16,17, ro  197li.                                                       aane Car  (ore tho.oend  opulation) -Passeger  -y  copr ioe -turca,
Grossrecrductoc vte - Ac-rsc  o-te  of uauht-r  a ro,    il  boar                      -eaiog lees than eight peron;  .Incldes ancu.e-c, hearore an  iino
it her corlrproductio  pertt if lie  -operieces presert ago-                               eil.
opcfcfriiy enes -uualy fire-yea  oceages  -tditg In 1960,                      05bpoloaprtcon   ouain       l  ypaoreucrfrrti
1970, rot 1975   t                                                                  RoaoaR-      tor genra  public per thous1And lof ppoltir  co lodef, uo dicea
19c7ior  cf bii-on_         idcte   rdrnaicoo  nt...feiy                                    fct data  o   eetyar   ayntb  codof peltie crc  scIcouctrlier..
Fiolio Proigran.        tK        _    th                         :                                  ni dsed livtotg:.t-.         .r.b,.                        i
Psalo  lanin -  ~Jee I   poen  of c,arriet roor         Percentag og fmarrid            iTV  eeivers  ee thousand ppnlatIo) - TV  -eci-ee  for br--tas  to g"I'all
coverof oilt-eario   age'15-4 yens) oc ts  b ,bontn-r1 d-vive                 pblic pee thro.otd ppltc;nooe   _oicnet  0   ricr
to e.l mercvl rovc it  sne ae drop.                                              ad io yeaa oh.. registntion  of TV act  sn it efec.
__________                                                                                      f'aiygeeAleeeencP.pr,   deine   awprldc_                                ulcno
T.loeofroo..T'Pd-tuioc per Capito .'1969.71 1lW) - Indeo of per rapits                        eoe    rsrl   orcriggnrloc.   It is  ontettohP                               diy
ancal production of allfoo  coao-ditie-. Production  -oiudes sed and                       lf,itd Poneare    t leantfordtime g oe.n..1- t                               'diy
feet and  ino   aedar peroin.  C,Iebdlot ir   ove  primary goodo                         le.doa  Atttenac  per. Caitaoe           r ler-Mcl    teruhr  fur
o o. ucroo   tcil  of ,uca_ I        c  tee cdible ad ocettoi  -trirote                soddrnIh er   uoaigoonic   otir-cooeondnbl
c.    offe  nodten  rr clludd).Aggregate Production of each counfry             uits.
r -md  cc nationa  a--rge protuce  por weights.
Per o p_ins supplyf   -ncis'ec orquireo.eptw) - Computed fro                         l,AOR PORCE
c,lergy equicleo forot suple  o-i bble in coon. try per,P cpta                       Toa   .c orcelhoaul.looial   coeprlr                                   ldn    er
por Ocy.Roallace coyplio  coeprte Iceeio  production, imports Ileo            foce ndusloyed hut r-1ldiog tooro.- a    t,udecte                     I ,ric leflii, ito
tori, act ohgro  :0 crci   Ret            ...p .. colode anine  feed, seeds,          In  _aio       _ta ouii ecar  cot cop-rble.
cort -ic dur  io food prc.rt-icg   Ir  oolIt dinti'bution.. Retuire.               nieeet  -.Pellhu   orea  prcecage f.-tyna htior ford
-tev 00      ttlcectd by FA0 bn.-ri ot ptyriloiaAnedSornrml,:Il~ut-nrep )                                     ,-ibrforei   nno,fr,r                     utn    n
couch2  000 braid  cocslcrivo  c-ir  -t.1ta  teaora-turr  lody sights,          fishing co percentage of ttllbrfre
ag  rlor   Iotibotoo-  .f populot. c  nod tho-ng lb perc-t for                      Industry (percet) - Lhorl foc  in..      ntg, oteurrioc, eofact,rig o-d
.Oc   h... a   dt   ..wblllr.                                                        ci.ttoty .eter ad gac nn prei,Sgeo  toallborfre
~rr capita luppy of proteic  crw per Isp) - Prtb;roc-tet of per            Paotiiintin Ra e -(rea) -tptal sale, and iremair-le              atpaioo
npit intt ouppy of food per dsp. Wet supply of food is dti-lod asaticltp  eaten  recomputed as total,  wl,dact f.a.  labor:forea  per-
abcv.-Pq.. eet   oralcotri- cetablinhed by USDA provide for a                            -tages of trial, male and freale popslao  onlagrspecticely;
sioiuej ai1or-- of 60 oran  of totn1 protic  pee day and 20 gras of                     i96, 1970  and 1975 data.  These e-  1C, pariirpt.io    rates  -efIlting
aical ant pulse pototo,f ohich 10 gron  chould be anima  protein.                      o -eotruture of the Population, ant lotg tine tred.  A fear n,ioaten
These stantrd  ore lone  tbso th.o. of 75 gra   of trial protelo  and                   are frcntioa  souces
i'S g-saw   f trsa.l  ri~tev nsor acragefor the  -lnd,  ,Propoed by FAO   rEo- i inesdo    Ratio-   Patio  C population  toter 15 sod 65- not oceto
the Cbirt World root Sur-ep.                                                          he1crfceit age grop of 15-64 yearn.
Per capita oron.tls l frcaia                do pulse  - Proteic  -opply of food
COl  ae1-u) -I- tity Rate )p- thouand    --Woon  Iraths per t-cooad                 Peroea 1ta    f Privatelonoer (both Ia  ash end Alod)d  - Peeve   yriis
itag  gou  1-b yearn,to obild-e  In thi,  g  goup; for east d-e-                      5pretrichest 2pecet, poores.t 20percent, no  pooret h  percec
oPo,gt .. tcnOico  .tac  tr-ice  fro. life  tebler.                                        of households.
HEAWLTH                                                                                    POVERTY TAnIET GROUPS
life loetan    at Birthicne   -  crg    utrof years of life                               intiate, Absolute  F.crt  In -leve  (USOPl per  'P to)  -uba  act  mrurl
icfo,ttmortaliy Pateleer uhunand) - Arun  'i-aho of Infants under one             cuiriti-ndly adequate tirt pluo eetial to-food ...quicem ti  is cot
per  f age per thootwan  lIve hioths.                                                    ffordable.
Ocosto Safe  ater i per-to .f pLpuIlnto   - tota, urban. and rurl -                    EimtdRltv    oet  noeLrl(i   e   aia      ra   n   ua 
Wobeofppl   ictatl, orban n ua   oith reas...abie aces  tRuaretieparyncm eeiso-hirdof aeaepeept
oa   eter supyI    dlte   ravtsr ac             or   rutrete   ht                      peronl Ieron  of the coutry. Orb  lvrl is derivd fron the  ual                   ee
uclootacir wae  ochata  fo  Proedte  borholee, syringe,                                  cu ajutmntfor bigher cos t of living it webs areas.
ant saiay-       lo s1ecoae  of their reopectice ppulatioa. In                           Estimated Poplati.a Peloo Absaun  Povety Icm   L""e                  lirctt)'ubaan
anuranarn  publi  fountain or  tandpoat 1-ted -ci mere thanrua    -                                    bPret of population )urban   d rural)  ho ar .eabolte pop'
200   t-trofro-a  bower -y be oortitrceuas beiog cIthia r_aonahi
aceoof tint house.  In rura  areas re..sc.able acess.  -ld Imply
thnt tIe houses ~fr or olehtr  of thel tousehld dofnot have. to speed a                                                              pon-ic and S-ria1 Doin DlisIoIo
dispoon-tto...tt  pnrt of the tsp ic fetvhing, the feily'   ae  nolds                                                         E-ocomi  Analysis and Projectio..nsepart-t
Angusit1979



- 23 -
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
Zcooaol  Devoloy t   etaD tan hm
1077
1972      1973     i974       1975      1976                 P     r  1979      1__0_      1983      199,0                                             CDPe. A   . 7    8b ro of
A.   atiotAl Atosts
(Million US$ At 1976 proi..)
1. GDP                               2883.5  3084.5    3216.4    3237.2    3415.5    3680.8   4169.9   4474.9   4699.1   6166.1    8260.8               5.0        5.8         6.1          100.0
2. Gaits f-ro  TT                    +180.3   +145.0     +45.0    -37.3        -        235.?       45.6      10.9      25.7       7.7       94.7         .          .            .69
3.  GDY                              3063.8   3229,5    3261.4    3199.8    3415.3    3936.5   4215.5    4485.6   4724.8    6173.8   8375.4             5.1        5.6         6.3          106.9
4   Import.                          14629.5   1394.2    1475.6    1177.0    1127.6    1295.1    1807.6    1721.6    1671.9    1944.5    2504.8        -2.0        1.1         5.2           35.2
5. EIports - Volv_                   1086.7  1145.4    1200;4    1041.6    1142.4    1184.2    1205.9    1239.2    1282.1   1682.5   21U.0              1.7        4.9         5.4           32.2
6.  Szport - TT adjusted             1267.0  1290.4    1245.4    1004.3    1142.4    1440.0    1251.5    1250.1    1307.8    1690.2    2282.7           2.6        4.4         6.2           39.1
7.  Roaource Cap - T  dputod          162.5    103.8      230.2     172.7    -14,8    -144.9       556.1     471.5     364.1     254.3     222.1          .          .            .           3.9
8.  Total Coeuosorti                  6 2457.7   2634.5    2519.3    2713.6   2667.1    2933.9    3721.9    3835.5    3918.3   4986.0   6801.0          5.6,       4.3         6.4           79.7
9.   tarotmnee                       3768.6    698.8      972.3     658.0     713.7     857.8    1049.6    1121.8    1170.6   1442.1    1796.6          2.2        4.6         4.5           23.3
10. Natirl S.v'gSa                    613.0   478.8    592.9        423.7     630.2     912.4      460.0     639.0     770.8    1163.8    1597.8        8.3       14.2         6.5           24.8
11.  Doo-mtlt s vioa                   606.1    595.0      742.1     486.1    728.4    1002.6       493.4     650.3    806.5    1187.8    1574.5        10.6       13.3         5.8           27.2
12.  CDP at current 005               2019.9  2368.1    2847.9    3151.4    3415.J   4427.8    5507.9   6442.8    9164.3   14079.8  22504.9             17.0       14.4         9.8
B. Sector OUtLut
(Sh-Le of GDP at the 1976 p,iee.)
1. Mafiaeturigo Industry               10.8      11.4      12.0      11.9      13.3      14.1       31.7 -    31.7      31.6      30.3      28.4       10.7        4.7         4.7
2. Agei..ltur-                         36.8      36.1      35.3      35.1      33.9      34.4       14.9      15.4      15.4      16.7       20.1       3.3        7.1        10.0
3.  Other                              52.4    52.5        52.7      53.0      52.8      51.5       53.4      52.9      53.0      52.9      51.5        4.3        5.2         5.5
C. Priee-
1.  Export Nice lodet                  51.5     60.8      83.4       92.5     100.0     132.6      129.4     142.0     154.4     201.0     268.6       20.8        6.5         6.0
2.  Dnport Itdon                       44.2      54.0      80.4      95.9     100.0     109..      122.8    140.2      150.1     199.7      252.7      19.8        7.2         4.8
3. Torn, of Trade                     116.5    112.0      103.7      96.5    100.0      121.5      105.4     101.3     102.9      00.7      106.3
4.  CDP Dsflator (US$)                 70.1      76.8      88.5      97.3     100.0    120.3       132.1     144.0     195.0    228.3       271.8      11.4        8.1         3.6
5.  Ora-ge E-chooge Rute
(US$/Kt)                        2.800    2.857  3.800         2.1700    2.190     7.411,      2.59       2.66
D. Selected 7ndlc-tor-                        1965-70   1972-77   1978-85   1985-90
1. ICOR                                          3.0      4.8         4.6       3.9
2.  Import El-stltity                            0.0      -0.34        .07      0.86
3.  Oro_go D-tLc Savings Rate                   19.0    20.0         16.9      19.3
4. A=rgo N tionI Sa-iaga Rnte                    18.6     18.6       16.8      19.7
5. Margial NatIonal Savings Rate                0.22      0.38       0.42      0.16
4.  7mporta/COP                                 29.0      40.9       35.0      30.7
7.  I-roatmaatu/CDY                             20.3    23.3         24.1      22.5
0. Roso-rce Cap/CDY                              0.7       2.8        7.1       3.2                Av. Annual
Cr. Rate
E.  Imeluvunot                                   1970       1975      1976      1977      1978      1970-78
1.  lbor Force Total                               ..   6400.0
2. IA.ge Eploynrct                              644.5     891.1      857.5     902.5     911.5        4.4'
(K9, '1,1,n0                              1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    197..5,76    1976/77    197770
1.  -oc -rrroc .R.eu..                         124.0      141.6       149.D      190.4      226.3      269.2      311.1       474.6
2: 2ecurroot top-oditure-                      110.4       128.7      139.6      162.7      207.4      246.8      285.1       431.1
3.  erurroot Surplus                           +13.5      412.9       +9.4       +27.7      +18.9      +22.4      +29.0      +43.5
4. We-elop-oot Fro7jot
turLings & Other
Nliocrllaoo...  Ror.ipto                     0.4         0.4        0.6        0.3        -                      6.4        2.0
5. Foroign Gra-tr                                0.8         1.0        0.5        3.2        0.2        7.0       10.5        17.2
6. Surplot Ar-tlabla fur
Fioaaciag Osroirp-ent
E.pooditro_                                 14.7        15.1       14.5       31.5       27.4       29.4       45.9        62.7
7. Develop-ent EOproditoron                     46.5        51.9       61.8       67.4       94.2      126.3      124.7       236.8
8.  Or-rall Deficit                             31.7       -36.8      -51.3      -35.9      -66.8       969        -78.8    -174.1
9.  Floaociog of tho Deficit
i,tror-l LI-et                            10.9       11.5       24.7        14.5       20.1       43.7       29.8        50.0
D-tic
Loog-ten Borrooing3                        8.1        15.6       21.3       18.8       15.5       52.8       25.0        90.0
short-tern Borrortag                      15.0         1.1        6.8        2.9       12.7       32.5       29.7         5.5
0.03       0.02       0.02        -
ISounges n to Cuh lalaooao
(Iocrrruot_)                                -2.4       -8.5       +0.5        +5.6      i8.4       -32.3       .5.8      +28.6
1/ Booed re 1964 pFloaa.                                                                                          06.AN  CYIA
October 23, 1979



- 24 -
AM=lE I
UM
Balance of Pavets and baternal Assistane
(Mtillion 083$)
Actual                                        Pra4tinarT                             Preoected
1972        1973        1974         1975        1976        1977         1978        1979         1980        1965         1990
A.  Sumnary of Balance of Payments
1.  Export. (Incl. NFS)                             560.0       698.6       1005.5       963.6       1142.4      1569.7       1475.5      1630.0      1818.2       3132.5      5449.6
2.  Inports (Incl. NFS)                             632.0        752.6      1237.3      1128.3       1127.8      1412.4       2090.8      2210.9      2296.6       3556.6      5822.3
3.  Resource Balance                                -72.0       -54.0       -231.8      -164.7         14.6       157.3       -615.3      -580.9      -478.4       -424.1      -372.7
4.  Net Factor Service Income                       -34.1       -101.9      -101.1      -111.8       -130.4      -170.3        142.4      -133,8       -180.1      -282.2      -352.9
4.1 Net Interest Payments of which:                 -15.7        -16.5       -18.6       :21.4        -27.1       -30.7        -25.8       -76.1       -102.2      -144.0      -118.1
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)              (-20.2)     (-22.1)    (-25.0)       (-26.2)     (-30.7)      (-38.8!     (-39.4)      (-52.5)     (-65.6)   (-147.8)   (-193.4)
4.2 Direct Investment Incone  (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)                )       -18.4       -85.4        -82.5       -90.4      -103.3       -139.6       -111.6        -57.7       -77.9      -138.2      -234.8
4.4 other 'actor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                          38.1         22.2        19.3        50.0         32.3        71.3        103.1       119.7        133.0       239.9       408.2
6.  Balance on Ibrrent Account                      -68.0      -133.7       -313.6      -226.5        -83.4        58.2       -654.6      -594.9      -525.6       -466.5      -317.5
7.  Private Direct Investment                        42.8        89.4        118.5        39.7        55.2         74.4         77.7        87.0         95.8       179.3       268.8
8.  Capital Grants                                   44.4          8.3        22.9        30.6         40.3        40.0            -            -           -            -
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                 79.2        86.4         92.8       119.7        188.0       180.8        414.6      454.3         541.3       695.1       941.7
10.  Asortization i7 2/                              -13.7       -15.9        -18.3       -16.0       -30.9        -43.1        -76.9      -96.3        -161.1      -306.3       391.0
11.  Net Disbursement I/                              65.5         70.5        74.5       103.7        157.1       137.7        337.7      358.0        380.2        388.8       550.7
12.  Use of IMF Resources                              0.0         -0.6        53.5        51.6         18.9        43.7          7.7       114.4         76.1       -40.0       -30.0
13.  Short-term  Capital Transactions                  5.6         15.1        31.1        31.1         17.4         7.7            -            -           -            -           -
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                    -65.1       -17.6        -14.6       -24.3      -101.3        -45.7         38.2        62.1            -           -            -
15.  Change Is Reserves (- - itcrease)               -25.2       *-31.4        29.7        -5.9      -104.2       -228.4i       193.2       -26.6        -26.6       -61.7      -492.0
B.  Grants and Loane Co-mitments
L.  official Grants 3/                               44.4         8.3         22.9        30.6        40.3         40.0
8.  Public M & LT Leans                             101.0         98.1       170.1       396.0        211.9       321.2
2.1- IBRD                                            29.0         34.0        10.4       193.5         31.0        84.0
2.2 IDA                                              28.0           -         33.5        25.5         14.0        36.0
2.3 Multfiateral                                       -           1.1         3.6         7.2         10.8        39.3
2.4 Governments                                      24.4         61.4       122.6        74.4         35.3        61.3
of which centrally planned ecan-aies             -          0.3         -            -           -           -
2.5 Suppliers                                         2.3          -           -           4.0         56.5         -
2.6 Financial Institutions                           17.3          1.6         -          91.4         64.4       100.7
2.7 Bonds                                             -            -           -           -            -           -
2.8 Public Loans, n.e.i.                                    -            -           -            -           -
3.  Other M & LT Loans (where available) 4/          33.0         23.2         6.9         3.6          7.5         -
C. Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Elemet of Total Comitnents 5/              44.8        43.6         66.5        23.0        23.0         36.5
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                        4.3         4.3          2.1         6.9          6.4         5.2
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                         29.2        27.6         36.7        24.6         17.5        25.6
Inocludes fin-ncing of projected balance of payments deficit (1978-1990)on medium/hard blend terns.
2/  Includes repayment on military leans.
3/ Exclodes technical assistance gr-eta.
4/ Represents a notional 50 percent of lean coamitments for RAC projects
5/  Represests grant element of loaI s.                                                                                                                                RAN, CPIA
October 23, 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt l/and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972       1973        1974        lsW^        1976        1977
A.  Medium and Lone-term Debt (nisbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period) 2              475.1      549.8       633.2       694.5       820.9        970.5
2.  Including Undisbursed 2/                                   709.2      820.2       990.6      1289.8       1445.2      1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service   3/                                    33.8       38.9        44.6        43.8         63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                    20.2       22.1        25.0         26.2        30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                     ..        ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                           6.0        5.6         4.4         4.5          5.5         4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                             1.7        1.6          1.6         1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                       8.1        7.9         7.5          6.0         8.2         7.3
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                              4.3        4.0         3.9          3.8         4.0         4.0
2.  Total Debt: Service/Total DOD                                7.1        7.1          7.0         6.3         8.2         7.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                     12.5       11.5         7.5        10.6         16.7        12.8
2.  Net TransEer/Imports (incl. NFS)                            10.4        9.4         6.0          9.2        13.9        10.9
3.  Net TransEer/Gross Disbursements                            82.7       81.6        80.3        86.6         83.6        76.2
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                39.9       49.1        33.0         63.4       45.2         24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements          48.5       70.7        48.9         70.5        53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                          19.1       23.6        24.9         33.4        37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                    30.9       38.2         39.9        48.3        52.0        49.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        21.6       28.7        27.2         34.5        46.7        48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                  23.1       30.6        28.6         36.4        48.4        50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31, 1977
Amount           Percent
(US$ Million)
F. External Debt *eDisbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                    276.3               28.5
2.  Bank Group                                                              388.2               40.0
3.  Other Multilateral                                                       20.8                2.1
4.  Governments                                                             403.6               41.6
of which centrally planned economies                                   0.1                -
5.  Suppliers                                                                29.2                3.0
6.  Financial Institutions                                                   84.6                8.7
7.  Bonds                                                                    44.1                4.5
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                        _                 _
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt 1/                                             970.5              100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                  1751.1              180.4
12.  Total M & LT Debt (iacl. Undisbursed)
1/ Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
2/ Excludes military debts.
3/ Includes repayment on military loans.
EAN, CPIA
April 4. 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of January 31, 1980
US$ Million
Loan or                                                              AT?unt (Less C a7cellations)
Credit #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                              Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
Eight (8) Loans and fourteen (14)Credits fully disbursed   101.0                 92.1
224        1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                   12.6       0.1
826        1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                       0.6
932        1973  Kenya       Highways                           29.0                       0.8
468        1974  Kenya       Population                                         12.0       0.2
477        1974  Kenya       Livestock                                          21.5       16.9
993        1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                        2.4
1093        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit   )               7.5                        7.5
537        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit   )                               7.5       4.0
1105        1975  Kenya       Site and Service    )               8.0                        8.0
1132        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry              9.9                       4.8 2/
1133        1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline          20.0                       0.3
1147        1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          57.6                       0.5
1148        1975  IDB         DFC II                             10.0                       0.3
1167        1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                          12.7
1184        1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                       8.7
650        1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development )                     10.0       8.7
1303-T      1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development )              10.0              10.0
1304-T      1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                        17.0             13.4
651        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads  )                               4.0       2.4
1305        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads  )               4.0                        4.0
1389        1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                       16.4
692        1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III  )                         20.0        5.1
1390-T      1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III  )                   5.0               5.0
1438        1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                       15.6
722       1977  Kenya        Bura Irrigation Settlement )                       6.0        4.4
1449        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement )    34.0                         34.0
750       1977  Kenya        Small Scale Industry                              10.0       10.0
1520        1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                      28.5
791       1978  Kenya        Second Urban    )                                 25.0       25.0
1550        1978  Kenya       Second Urban    )                  25.0                      25.0
797        1978  Kenya       Education IV                                      23.0       22.3
S-12        1978  KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan            9.0                        6.5
1636        1978  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.0                       72.0
1637       1978  Kenya        Rural Water Supply                 20.0                      20.0
858        1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                     13.0       13.0
1680        1979  Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.0                       20.0
1684        1979  Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.0                       90.0
914 3/    1979  Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.0       27.0
959 4/    1979  Kenya        Second Integrated Agri. Dev.                      46.0       46.0
962 4/    1979  Kenya        Baringo Pilot                       _               6.5        6.5
Total                             676.4    32.0 336.2       598.6
of which has been repaid          25.6      -    1.4
Total now outstanding             650.8    32.0 334.8
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been repaid 10.2   1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          649.2    32.0 334.8
TOTAL undisbursed                           378.7    28.4 191.5       598.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes US$3.8 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/   Not yet effective.
4/   Not yet signed.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of January 31, 1980
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           0.5
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           0.4
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           0.9
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           1.4
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             5.9
Total                                          244.8           9.1
of which has been repaid                      55.2
Total now outstanding                          189.6
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      189.6
Total undisbursed                                9.1           9.1
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of January 31, 1980)
There are currently 33 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5. 1974;
Effective Date:  September 23, 1974; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop.  Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project, and by June 1980 a total of 15 fac-
tories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard
of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and
institutional improvements together with strengthened staffing should further
improve performance. An economic analysis of the project indicates that
despite substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments
in new tea factories is over 40%.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing the most serious
constraint to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues
to be slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
security arrangements. Group ranch loan processing also remains slow, and
unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in the pas-
toral areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
The project continues to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past two years for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participating
mixed farms and coffee estates is satisfactory. Coffee estates are achieving
recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding areas cropped
and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory rate of finan-
cial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recommendations of
the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have prompted Govern-
ment to mAke a major review of its policies, and although reaching a consensus
has proved difficult, Government expects to take a position on the large farm
sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government policy, the Bank
and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to see whether the
original project objectives can still be attained. Pending this review, no
further recruitment of mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
ProJect: US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's target long-term afforesta-
tion program of 130,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of pulpwood plantations by
1980. The planting program is proceeding steadily; the cumulative total to
date is 25% below target, due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
and poor management. The building and labor housing programs are both con-
siderably behind schedule. There has been little progress in the implemen-
tation of most of the covenants of the Credit Agreenment, particularly
regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use study, the gazetting
of nature reserves and the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government
is now providing very adequate budgetary allocations. Procurement is proceed-
ing normally. Disbursements and total Project expenditure are both ahead of
schedule. The Credit is now fully disbursed and the Loan should also be fully
disbursed before the end of 1980.
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under
the loan were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting lar-- numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well; land clearance has been
completed in about 51% of the area, and 3,725 ha have been planted. Yields
from outgrowers cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. Building works have been delayed, and the
first crushing trial of the factory is now expected to take place in December
1979/January 1980. Road construction has also been delayed, and an effective
sugar research program has yet to be established. Proposals for a training
program are now being produced, and the delay in completion of the factory
will allow more time for staff training. The standard of management of the
sugar company continues to be good, and coordination among the various agen-
cies involved in the project is improving.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE/ - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project. Consultants
are preparing proposals for the introduction of an improved management



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
accounting and information system. In addition, a review of AFC's salary
structure and organization is nearing completion. Both of these measures
should strengthen AFC's performance.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project:  US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about 65% above the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances. A revised financing
plan is under review by the co-financiers. No supplementary IDA financing is
proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project:_ US72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date:  September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection and
appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drainage
and irrigation is in progress. Coordination of project activities has improved
considerably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration,, to withdraw
executive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Deveiopment Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants are being
selected for the roads component, and terms of reference for baseline studies
are under preparation.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement; US$27.0 million
Credit of June 11, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delay by the Ministry of Works in completing the



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
tender documentation for certain project institutions.  Action has been pro-
posed to alleviate the problem.  The total cost of the project has increased
by about 6% in terms of US Dollars. Implementation of educational objectives
continues to be satisfactory. The views presented in the project-financed
report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies have
been incorporated in the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1979-83. Evaluation
of the efficiency of educational broadcasting has started, as has the revision
of primary school examinations to make them more work-oriented. However,
the Government continues to be reluctant to finance technical assistance
specialists from the loan proceeds, and this may lead to delays in implementa-
tion of the project's educational objectives. The dialogue with the Government
regarding the hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education:  US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is proceeding in line with
appraisal estimates. Implementation of the project's educational objectives
is also satisfactory. A five-year plan for revision of the Basic Education
Curricula has been prepared by the Kenya Institute of Education, and subject
review panels have started their work. The Kenya Institute of Administration
and the Faculty of Agriculture are also well on their way in the preparation
of courses and the planning of staffing and staff training. Steps are being
taken to recruit specialists needed for the Education Planning, Education
Facilities and Examinations Research and Development Units in the Ministry
of Education. Final information on the selection of the 30 Craft Training
Centers to be assisted under the project is expected shortly.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project completion is now forecast about 21 months behind schedule,
and it is unlikely that lost time can be recovered. However, some major
components may well be operational by Spring 1980, several months ahead of
the overall completion date (now estimated to be 11/80). Although there is
a substantial cost overrun, this is not seen as a major problem since Govern-
ment is fully committed to earliest project completion. Regarding key per-
sonnel vacancies requiring the Ministry of Water Development's (MWD) attention,
MWD is fully aware of this situation and, while progress is slow, remedial
action is being taken.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 18 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 50% In local currency costs and 12% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan became effective January 24, 1980. New
tariffs have been introduced, and management consultants are assisting with
implementation of the first phase of the program to strengthen the organization
and management of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD). Key project staff
have been appointed. Preparation for construction of schemes is about eight
months behind schedule, but MWD is planning to revise the implementation
schedule to compensate for delays.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites,, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel.  The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978.
The loan is 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The principal
problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for operation and
maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled
personnel. A training program is being prepared by UNDP, but its~ execution
depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts. Little progress
has been made to date, and a further postponement of the Closing Date to cover
the period of implementation of the training program and to permit completion
of disbursements for this component is under discussion. The project comple-
tion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. Con-
struction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road is continuing. In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the
construction of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to
delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date,
which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, has been post-
poned further to June 30, 1980 to allow time for completion of the Kisii-
Mogonga road where construction has recently begun.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to March 31, 1980 to allow time for
completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the pipe-
line.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program was reviewed in depth
by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review meeting
held in June 1979. The project is about 15 months behind schedule but is now
progressing satisfactorily. All eight Bank-financed construction units are
fully equipped and are now operational. By March 31, 1979, 304 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 16 km were gravelled. Annual output



- 35 -
ANNEX II
averages 41 km per annum for all units, about 4 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru District. To resolve
these problems, the Ministry of Works will request local governments to supply
more labor to construction units, and will assign a SIDA-financed engineer to
supervise works in the Nakuru area.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan may be delayed
because a critical shortage of funds has caused a reduction in the highway
work program. While this has not yet affected the project appreciably, the
continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch projects included in the Sector
Loan. In general, detailed engineering has been completed for road construc-
tion and upgrading scheduled to start in FY80, and the designs for roads to
start in FY81 are completed or under preparation. The road maintenance
program for FY80 is in line with appraisal estimates except for a 30% reduction
in resealing of paved roads; however, the Ministry of Works is planning to
request funds this year from the loan to help clear the backlog of resealing.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Nearly 99% of the construction
has been completed (only two out of 36 facilities are still in the final
stages of construction), and more than 75% of the equipment and furniture has
been procured. Some delays in furnishing, equipping and staffing of facili-
ties in rural areas are occurring, but arrangements to improve the situation,
including hiring of a hospital secretary or commissioning engineer, are being
explored by the Ministry of Health. All other elements of the project have
been completed. The program components financed by other donors and the
Government are moving ahead and, with a few exceptions, are expected to be
completed as planned.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date:  January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 190
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. A further cancellation of US$1.9
million has been made along with a postponement of the Closing Date to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; specifications for the new
drill rig and accessories have been completed and tenders are being evaluated.
Miscellaneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International
Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975. The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$9.7 million had been
disbursed as at December 31, 1979. The Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Twelve sub-
projects have been approved. As at December 31, 1979, US$12.2 million had
been committed and US$3.7 million had been disbursed.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credlt of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) continues to make progress in insti-
tutional development, particularly as regards financial discipline, project
appraisal procedures and operating performance. KIE's management is determined
to implement agreed policies to improve profitability, but continued attention
is required in a number of areas; a comprehensive plan of action for reducing
arrears is particularly important.  Eight subloans totalling US$244,000 have
been committed, but no funds have been disbursed as yet under the line of
credit. A small amount has been disbursed, however, under the technical
assistance component.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This loan became effective on August 16, 1979. Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE/ - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and con-
struction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin
soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now opera-
tional, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule and tendering
is not expected to take place before December 1979. One health center is
under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against its
costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank. The
design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban ProJect: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of tne project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled.  Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress in meeting disbursement conditions for
the Nairobi component is slow, and progress on studies included in the project
is also slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed
pending Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Works has
appointed various consultants for the design and construction of all physical
project components. The draft final report of the Tourism Pricing Study has
been reviewed with Government and consultants in the field, and the final
report is expected to be submitted soon. The Very Large Herbivores Study is in
progress. Satisfactory agreements have been reached with the Amboseli ranchers
on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                       0.3
Total                      2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
(US$ million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$30.8 million of the loan has now been disbursed. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the coun-
tries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$9.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
January 31, 1980
Fiscal Year        Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2          6.3    23.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4      -       2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3      2.8     9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market       2.0      -       2.0
Total Gross Commitments                    33.1     9.8    42.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     9.4      1.8    11.2
Total Commitments now held by IFC          23.7     8.0    31.7
Total Undisbursed                           4.9      -       4.9



- 43 -                    ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
i. Timetable of Key Events
(1)  Project Preparation              : Industrial Development Bank
September 1978
(2)  Appraisal                        : April 1979
(3)  Negotiations                        January 1980
(4)  Planned date of effectiveness  :  [May, 1980]
ii. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
iii. Special Conditions
None



