Document of
The World Bank                   ILE r$PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2633-KE
KENYA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A FOURTH IBRD LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
February 20, 1980
East Africa Projects Department
Industrial Eevelopment and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Ksh 7.5 - US$1
ABBREVIATIONS
ICDC    -    Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
DFCK    -    Development Finance Company of Kenya
IDB     -    Industrial Development Bank
EADB    -    East African Development Bank
KIE     -    Kenya Industrial Estates
NPC     -    New Projects Committee
ISPC    -    Industrial Survey and Promotion Center
KETA    -    Kenya External Trade Authority
MCI     -    Ministry of Commerce and Industry
IPC     -    Industrial Protection Committee
EEC     -    European Economic Community
ODM     -    United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry
ITC     -    International Trade Center
KBS     -    Kenya Bureau of Standards
KCB     -    Kenya Commercial Bank
KNAC    -    Kenya National Assurance Company
NBK     -    National Bank of Kenya
KRC     -    Kenya Reinsurance Corporation
DEG     -    Deutsche Gessellschaft fur Wirtschaftliche
ADB     -    African Development Bank
IDBI    -    Industrial Development Bank of India
BADEA   -    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique
de l'Afrique
FISCAL YEAR
IDB        : January 1- December 31
Government : July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA                                                                  i-ii
I. THE ENVIRONMENT ..                                                         1
A. The Industrial Sector. . .                                           1
Past Performance and Contribution to the Economy                  1
Structure of Industry          ............ ......                2
Institutional Policies and Framework ...............              2
Development Issues and the Fourth Development Plan..              5
Industrial Sector Prospects..........                             6
Bank Experience and Strategy in the Sector                        7
B. The Financial Sector.                                                8
Recent Developments         ............ . .....                  8
The Institutional Structure            .        .                 8
Interest Rates.                                                  11
II. THE INSTITUTION              ...                                          11
A.   Institutional Aspects ....................... .                   11
Objectives and Roles...                                          11
Ownership and Board of Directors           .     .    .12
Management, Organization and Staffing          . . .12
Operating Policies .          .......................            14
Procedures   . .15
B. Operations and Finance.....   17
Operations                   ...17
Portfolio                   . ..18
Financial Condition ....                .     .. . ........      20
This report is based on the findings of a mission comprising of Messrs.
Jose Luis Mombru, Paul Murgatroyd and Ernest Kepper and of one consisting
of Messrs. Paul Ballard and Gajinder Ahuja, which visited Kenya in April
1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                                              Page No.
C.     Economic Role and  Performance  ......................                                 21
Economic  Impact of  Operations  ......................                                21
Resource  Mobilization  ..............................                                 21
Performance Under Previous Loans  ...................                                  22
D.    Prospects  ..........................................                                   22
IDB  Strategy  .......................................                                22
Projected  Operations  .................  .                 ..............             23
Resource  Requirements  ..............................                                 24
Projected  Financial  Condition  and  Performance                         ......       25
III.      THE  PROJECT  ........ ............   .                  .........................             25
A.     Obiectives  .........................................                                  25
B.     Description  of  the  Project  .........................                               26
C.     Project Costs and Financing  ........................                                  27
D.     Project  Implementation  .............................                                 28
E.     Benefits  and Risks  .................................                                 28
IV.     AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AT  NEGOTIATIONS  .........                    ..      ...........        29



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX NO.                                                                 Page No.
I      Kenya Manufacturing Output 1973-77                                 30
2      Kenya - Principal Interest Rates at December 31, 1978              31
3      IDB - Board of Directors (as of April 1, 1979)                     32
4      IDB - Organization Chart                                           33
5      IDB - Statement of Policy and Regulations                          34
6      IDB - Actual (1973-78) and Projected Operations (1979-83)          37
7      IDB - Analysis of Loan and Equity Approvals                        38
8      IDB - Actual (1974-78) and Projected (1979-83) Income Stat.    39
9      IDB - Actual (1974-78) and Projected (1979-83) Balance Shts.   40
10      IDB - Actual (1974-78) and Projected (1979-83) Sources
and Uses of Funds Statements                                    42
11      IDB - Actual and Projected Financial Ratios                        43
12      IDB - Resource Position at December 31, 1978                       44
13      IDB - List of Project Possibilities as of March 31, 1979           45
14      IDB - Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan            46
15      Kenya - Related Documents and Data Available in Project File   47






KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Basic Data
Exchange Rate: US$1 = Ksh 7.5
Date of Creation: January 12, 1973
Date of Start of Operations: April 1, 1973
Ownership
Ksh million      %
Government                                      43.1        40.5
Industrial and Commercial
Development Corporation 1/                    26.0        24.4
Kenya National Assurance Company 1/             12.5        11.7
National Bank of Kenya 1/                       12.5        11.7
Kenya Reinsurance Corporation 1/                12.5        11.7
2/
Ksh Milliom-/
1974    1975    1976    1977   1978    1979
Loans
Approvals             31.5    48.0    57.2    81.7   107.2   121.1
Commitments           26.9    50.9    40.2    95.6    76.9   105.5
Disbursements          8.0    22.2    51.2    51.4    45.9    98.0
Equity Investments
Approvals             15.9      5.8    23.4    24.1    37.9    13.4
Commitments            8.9    11.2    14.2    31.5    32.8    15.6
Disbursements           4.4     9.4    14.4    27.6    27.9        9.2
Interest Rate and Other Charges
Interest rate: recently raised to 12.5% for foreign currency loans
and 13% for local currency loans.
Commitment charge: recently raised to 1 1/4% p.a. on undisbursed
balance.
Appraisal fee: recently raised to 1% of loan amount with a Ksh 10,000
minimum.
1/   100% Government-owned.
2/   Net of cancellations.



Basic Data on Bank Loans
A.   Status on Loans (as of February 20, 1980)
Date of                    US$ Million
Effectiveness      Loan Amount  Authorized  Disbursed
946-KE            March 26, 1974          5             5          5.0
1148-KE           October 9, 1975         10            10          9.7
1438-KE            November 10, 1977      20            15.7        4.8
B.   Summary of Loan Features
946-KE
Foreign exchange risk: at IDB's option, either fully assumed by clients
or the Ksh/US$ risk taken by clients and US$/
disbursement currency risk borne by Government.
Final date for project submission: March 31, 1976
Closing date for disbursements: September 30, 1979
Project free limit: US$200,000
Aggregate free limit: US$1 million
1148-KE
Foreign exchange risk: to be assumed fully by clients; in exceptional
circumstances, foreign exchange risk split
between the Government and the borrower.
Final date for project submission: July 1, 1977
Closing date for disbursements: June 30, 1980
Project free limit: US$400,000
Aggregate free limit: US$2 million
1438-KE
Foreign exchange risk: to be assumed fully by clients; in exceptional
circumstances, foreign exchange risk split
between the Government and the borrower.
Final date for project submission: July 1, 1980
Closing date for effectiveness: July 1, 1982
Project free limit: US$600,000
Aggregate free limit: US$4,000,000



I. THE ENVIRONIENT
A.   The Industrial Sector
Past Performance and Contribution to the Economy
1.01      Over the past decade manufacturing has been one of the most dynamic
sectors in the Kenyan economy, with value added in the sector growing at an
average rate of 10.5% in real terms between 1972 and 1978. The sector is,
however, still relatively small, contributing 13% of GDP and accounting for
13% of modern sector employment in 1977. Between 1972 and 1977 manufacturing
output (Annex 1) grew in real terms at an annual average rate of 9.9% recovering
strongly after declining in 1975 essentially as a result of balance of payments
constraints on imports provoked by the 1973-74 international oil crisis. Over
the 1972-77 period the relative performance of the various industrial subsectors
varied widely with consumer goods production generally expanding more rapidly
than intermediate and capital goods. Among the most rapidly expanding sub-
sectors were: canned vegetables and fruit, leather and footwear, plastics,
paper and paper products, metal products and more recently clothing, transport
equipment and electrical machinery. Meanwhile, meat, dairy goods, furniture
and nonelectrical machinery declined, and basic industrial chemical production
stagnated. More moderate growth was registered by tobacco, textiles, grain
milling and miscellaneous foods. The predominant mode of industrial growth
has been import substitution and oriented towards the domestic market.
As a proportion of domestic supply of manufactured goods, imports declined
from 39% to 32% between 1972 and 1977, while exports dropped from 19% to
16% of gross output over the same period. If refined petroleum products are
excluded, manufactured exports as a percentage of total exports dropped from
35.5% in 1965 to 28% in 1976. Among Kenya's major manufactured exports, the
volume of such primary and processed agricultural products as canned pine-
apples, canned beef, wattle extract and cement has expanded rapidly. However,
exports of more highly processed goods such as paint, clothing, and shoes have
declined with the loss of neighboring markets, particularly in Uganda and
Tanzania, and mainly due to the break-up of the East African Community. With
import substitution and rapid growth in domestic demand, the sector's imported
input dependency would appear to have grown at a faster rate than output over
the 1967-74 period.
1.02      Manufacturing employment (Annex 1), over 80% of which is concentrated
in large firms of over 50 employees, has grown steadily increasing from 94,500
in 1973 to 122,000 in 1978, but has not kept pace with growth in either output
or investment, indicating an increasing capital intensiveness of production.
Real wages in the sector declined by 12% between 1972 and 1977; meanwhile
labor productivity (output/employee) increased significantly at an average
of 11.5% p.a. in real terms. Rapid growth of the sector has brought about
shortages of local qualified and experienced technical and managerial personnel,
with larger firms intensifying their own training programs to overcome this.
Manufacturing investment, which totalled Ksh 1,220 million in 1977, averaged
15.5% of total gross fixed capital formation between 1972 and 1977. Patterns



- 2 -
of capacity utilization have tended to vary markedly between industrial
subsectors and over time. Capacity underutilization has occurred in a number
of industries principally because of (a) excess investment by firms in the
same sector due to attraction of high profits afforded by a protected local
market, (b) shortages of inputs (in particular in agroprocessing industries),
(c) loss of markets due to breakup of the East African Commun-LT, (d) inade-
quate investment planning, and (e) limited market size.
Structure of Industry
1.03      For reasons relating to infrastructure, services and market proxi-
mity, manufacturing in Kenya is regionally concentrated in six urban centers,
Nairobi (50% of industrial output in 1972) being the most important, followed
by Mombasa (19%). Four smaller industrial growth poles -- Kisumu, Nakuru,
Thika and Eldoret -- accounted together for 13% of 1972 output.  By size,
Kenyan industrial production is highly concentrated in 420 firms and estab-
lishments in 1976, which contributed 86% of output and 89% of value added in
that year.
1.04      Small industries represent a small part of industrial sector activity,
accounting in 1976 for only 14% of sector output and 11% of sector value
added. The small-scale industry sector (defined as firms with below 50
employees) consisted of some 3,340 "registered" firms in 1975. Most were very
small "workshops" with an average of six employees, although there are also a
few "modern" plants employing generally more than 20 persons, using imported
equipment, with semi-automated production processes and producing goods
approaching international quality standards. By branch of activity SSIs are
heavily concentrated in footwear, clothing and furniture.
1.05      Concerning ownership, liberal Government policies to promote accel-
erated industrial growth since Independence have favoured private sector
development and foreign investment. The ownership pattern in the industrial
sector generally reflects these trends, although more precise data to this
effect are not available. In the 1970s however, Government has been more
active in investing in industry either directly or through parastatals and
State-owned development banks, (para. 1.21). State participations in industry
are mostly concentrated in large modern plants and range from small minority
to majority holdings. Kenya has developed a dynamic and aggressive industrial
and entrepreneurial class which is still predominantly foreign but also
increasingly Kenyan, as Government has pursued policies aimed at gradual
"kenyanization" of managerial positions as well as encouraging Kenyan entre-
preneurship.
Institutional Policies and Framework
1.06      Continuing political stability since Independence together with the
high Government priority attached to industrialization have contributed to a
favorable policy environment for manufacturing. In addition, a number of
policy instruments have been employed both to promote and to regulate indus-
trial activities. These include the following: (a) Investment allowances to
encourage regional decentralization of industry away from Nairobi and Mombasa.



- 3 -
Under the Fourth Plan (para. 1.09), these will be modified into differential
investment allowances favoring investments in rural and semi-urban areas and
in labor intensive over capital intensive production processes. (b) Sales tax
exemptions on both locally produced and imported intermediate goods. (c)
Protection through tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports (including import
banks, quantitative restrictions and "no objection certificates"), which has
resulted in a favoring of import substitution over export oriented industrial
promotion in the trade regime. (d) Repatriation abroad of capital and profits
by foreign firms was unrestricted until end 1978, when due to balance of
payments constraints dividend transfer abroad was temporarily limited to 10%
of the annual repatriable amount (para. 1.17).  (e) Export subsidies of 10% on
value of exports. Under the Fourth Plan this scheme is to be expanded through
differential export subsidies ranging from 10-30% to provide greater encour-
agement to export activities which maximize "local content" (value added +
local raw materials) and are labor intensive. (f) Price Controls of two
types: (i) specific controls on a limited range of about 30 essential goods;
and, (ii) general controls on all other locally produced goods including
manufactured products not included in (i) above. Administration of these
controls has generally been weak in particular at the wholesale and retail
levels and general controls will be discontinued under the Fourth Plan.
(g) Import Duties on Capital Goods of 10% of c.i.f. value were introduced
in 1976 as an initial move to encourage investment in more labor intensive
techniques by increasing the relative cost of machinery and equipment.
(h) Foreign Exchange Controls. As a result of the deterioration in Kenya's
balance of payments situation, foreign exchange allocation restrictions were
introduced in December 1978 through limitations on import license applications
whereby: (i) returnable import deposits (of 25% for crude petroleum and for
local vehicle assembly kits, and of 100% of c.i.f. value for a restricted list
of goods as well as all quota restricted goods) are required; and, (ii)
imports of industrial machinery now have to be financed with foreign medium
and long-term credit of at least 18 months maturity. The industrial sector
has not for the most part been directly affected by these foreign exchange
controls since imports of agricultural and industrial inputs and spare parts
have been accorded priority status. (i) Industrial Investment Screening. The
interministerial New Projects Committee (NPC) consisting of representatives of
the Ministries of Commerce and Industry 1/ (Chairman and Technical Secretariat),
Finance, Planning and Agriculture as well as IDB, ICDC, KIE, DFCK (para.
1.21), ISPC and KETA (para. 1.07) screens and approves, usually early in the
project cycle, all new industrial investment projects. In 1978, NPC's role
was strengthened by: (i) adoption of definitions of detailed economic and
financial criteria for project evaluation; and, (ii) the requirement that NPC
approves all projects before licenses for machinery imports can be granted.
1.07      A number of ministries and government agencies are involved in the
making and implementing of Kenyan industrial policies. Tariff and trade
policy with respect to industrial protection is the responsibility of the
Directorate of Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI), although
the Ministry of Finance and the interministerial Quota Committee are also
involved notably in setting annual import quotas. The Directorate of Indus-
tries in MCI has prime responsibility for industrial policy and monitoring
1/   The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has recently been divided into a
Ministry of Commerce and a Ministry of Industry.



- 4 -
industrial activities, but is small, and has insufficient staff and technical
expertise and in practice has limited itself to acting as secretariat for
the NPC and the Industrial Protection Committee (IPC) and to maintaining the
industry register. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for administration
of price controls, tax incentives, and export subsidies as well as monitoring
the GovernmenJ s investment portfolio. The Industrial Survey and Promotion
Center (ISPC), was established in 1970 as an agency of the then Ministry of
Commerce and Industry to identify, develop and evaluate new projects and,
where possible, assist in their implementation. ISPC has in recent years
played an increasing role in conducting sectoral and subsectoral studies to
identify new project opportunities and project feasibility studies as well as
industrial policy research and project reviews for the NPC.  A number of
projects identified by ISPC have been incorporated in the Fourth Development
Plan. However, ISPC needs to improve its coordination with the development
finance institutions to assure that more promoters and financing are found for
the projects it identifies and develops. At end 1978, ISPC had a staff of 18
local professionals and three full-time and five short-term UNIDO seconded
expatriate advisers. The Kenya External Trade Authority (KETA) was established
in 1975 with ITC and EEC assistance as a semi-autonomous public agency through
the restructuring of its predecessor, the Kenyan Export Promotion Authority.
KETA has a Chairman from the private sector and a professional staff of 14 of
whom 7 are expatriates seconded by UNIDO and the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation. Its role is to provide assistance to Kenyan exporters in the
areas of product development, product marketing, trade information, freight
problems and handicraft exports. KETA has effectively attracted participation
of representatives from both the public and private sectors. Between 1976 and
1978 KETA organized several successful trade missions abroad. While KETA has
focussed primarily upon non-traditional export opportunities particularly in
manufacturing and has, together with ISPC, identified several new products
with export potential, its strategy has been more oriented towards promoting
exports in various regional foreign markets. KETA needs to adopt a more
product-specific approach which would enable it to give priority to specific
products offering greatest export potential. Following several years of
intensive staff training since its establishment in 1975, the Kenya Bureau
of Standards (KBS) has begun in 1979 to establish and enforce standards
particularly of locally manufactured goods, which should increasingly help
Kenyan exporters to find market acceptance for their products abroad.
1.08      While institutionally well diversified, the industrial policy frame-
work in Kenya has suffered from: (i) inadequate coordination between the
institutions responsible for making and administering policies; (ii) short-
ages of qualified and experienced professional manpower particularly in
policy development and projects analysis; (iii) inconsistencies in the
application of industrial policies as a result of ad hoc decisions; and,
(iv) delays and uncertainties in the administration of industrial policies
(notably, for example, export compensation). These problems have been identi-
fied by Government and will be addressed during the Fourth Plan through the
strengthening of the institutions involved (notably the Directorate of Indus-
tries, KETA and ISPC), and the rationalizing of policy administration (espe-
cially with respect to export compensation, protection, and price controls).
In addition to the strengthening of the NPC, the staffing and organization of



- 5 -
the Directorate of Industries is to be reinforced to enable it to undertake
reviews of industrial policy measures, to monitor industrial development
particularly in the small scale and informal sectors as well as to monitor
implementation of the Plan's objectives. These developments will however
necessarily take time given the need to train newly recruited staff.
Development Issues and the Fourth Development Plan
1.09      The Fourth Development Plan (1979-1983) recognizes the need, as
did the 1974-78 Plan, for a change in the main thrust of industrialization
policies away from the predominantly import-substitution strategy pursued
since Independence. Unlike its predecessor, however, the Fourth Plan out-
lines in more specific terms the new strategy to be followed and the measures
proposed to accomplish it. Two principal related objectives are: (a) to
encourage greater efficiency in local industrial production and to improve
international competitiveness of Kenyan manufactured goods; and, (b) to
promote the development of export-oriented industries. To achieve this, a
restructuring of the present trade regime is to be implemented over the Plan
period, including (1) rationalization of tariffs, (2) elimination of quantita-
tive restrictions and "no objection certificates", 1/ and (3) phasing out of
duty concessions to new industries. Reliance on various forms of quantitative
restriction will be phased out within five years and the tariff would be made
the principal form of protection. Also tariff rates will be generally reduced
and made more uniform, while tariffs on intermediate goods and light machinery
will be moderately raised. Implementation of these measures, however, will
necessarily proceed gradually and may well encounter considerable difficulties,
notably: (a) objections from firms that it will cause cutbacks in industrial
production and employment and that it is discriminatory in that they have to
pay higher than international prices for their locally supplied inputs; (b)
the fact that some affected firms are partly or wholly owned by Government;
and, (c) the natural tendency to further restrict imports at a time when Kenya
is undergoing strains on its balance of payments. Moreover, affected firms
having to diversify away from more inefficient lines of production as their
protection is reduced, will probably need financial and quite possibly tech-
nical assistance to rationalize and diversify their operations. Similarly,
to carry out this program, Kenya will require additional external resources to
alleviate balance of payments pressures.
1.10      As a result, in part, of past industrialization policies, Kenyan
industrial development has reached a stage where most of the more obvious,
economically least costly and "easy" opportunities for import substitution
have been exploited. Kenyan industry has also gradually become increasingly
capital intensive in its techniques of production and increasingly concen-
trated in larger scale units. Employment creation has not kept pace with
sector growth. Behind protective tariff and other non-tariff barriers, some
inefficient industries have developed unable to compete on world markets in
1/   The Government has declared its intention to rescind the "no objection
certificates" by a specific date in conjunction with the recently negotiated
second program credit (para 3.01).



- 6 -
terms of price and/or quality of product. For the reasons presented in para.
1.02, capacity underutilization has been a persistent problem in some sub-
sectors. Meanwhile manufactured exports have generally stagnated. Industry,
however, has achieved high rates of growth in recent years and is perceived
as a strategically key sector in Kenya's future economic development.
1.11      To encourage the development of export-oriented industries, the
Fourth Plan specifically calls for: (a) strengthening of KETA; (b) estab-
lishment of an export credit guarantee scheme; (c) establishment of export
houses; (d) strengthening and extending the role of the Kenya National
Trading Corporation as an export agency; and, (e) rationalizing and extending
the existing export incentive scheme.  In addition a number of potentially
attractive industrial export projects have been identified particularly
in local resource-based industries (e.g., tanning and leather, fruit and
vegetable processing) in which Kenya appears to have a comparative advantage.
However, development of such projects (especially in agro-industry) faces
a number of constraints, including: (a) inadequate supply and quality of
inputs; (b) low yields and therefore high prices of inputs; and, (c) high
freight costs in part because of the relatively small quantities to be ex-
ported. Moreover, diversification of manufactured exports will require
specialized product-specific international marketing knowledge and capability
presently, for the most part, lacking inside Kenya. For these reasons, the
effective establishment of new export industries as a major portion of the
new industrial investment in Kenya is an objective which probably only will
be accomplished in the medium - long-term.
1.12      The Plan also includes measures designed to encourage increased
employment generation in the industrial sector, notably through modifica-
tions in the existing investment allowance scheme (para. 1.06(a)). Similarly,
the development of small-scale industry and the informal sector is to be
encouraged further through a major expansion of KIE's assistance to these
sectors, as well as the establishment of a small-scale industry credit
guarantee scheme. Development of local resource based industries is accorded
a high priority and is expected to make a major contribution to industrial
growth over the Plan period. In addition, certain basic industries are
to be developed including a ministeel plant, machine-tools and other engineer-
ing industries to provide a foundation for other down-stream industries.
With the strengthening of the NPC (para. 1.06(i)), greater importance will
be attached to rigorous screening of proposed investment projects, as well as
to more efficient and fuller use of existing capacity. The private sector is
expected to be responsible for most new industrial investment. Government
participation in industry will play a more limited role than in the past,
although the Plan does call for direct Government participation in promotion
of basic and strategic industries (ie: steel, engineering and chemicals).
Industrial Sector Prospects
1.13      The rapid growth of manufacturing of about 16% p.a. in real terms
between 1976 and 1978 was based upon a strong upswing in domestic demand as
a result of increased incomes and favorable world market prices for Kenya's
main exports. The fall in international coffee prices in 1978, however,



- 7 -
together with increasing world oil prices have brought about renewed strains
in the balance of payments. The Bank's recent economic memorandum for Kenya
(Report No. 2441-KE, March 1979) estimates that as a result of continued
balance of payments constraints together with higher levels of military
expenditures, economic growth will average about 5% in real terms between
1979 and 1983, as compared to 7% p.a. projected in the Fourth Plan. Continuing
large increases in oil prices might place additional downward pressures on
growth rates. These factors would also imply a lower rate of manufacturing
growth than the 9% p.a. in real terms forecast in the Plan. As a result of
slower growth in incomes and considerable tightening in the liquidity position
of the banking system (para. 1.16), the increase in demand for manufactured
goods is expected to slacken somewhat during the next two years in comparison
with past growth levels. In addition, the loss of Kenyan export markets in
neighboring states, the "dumping" of imported goods in the local market, the
proposed reduction of industrial protection coupled with the significant
lead-time necessary to effectively develop new export industries, will in the
short to medium term exert downward pressures on the production, sales and
profits of manufacturers. A recent Government requirement that firms increase
their labor forces by 10% in 1979 will place further profit constraints upon
companies due to additional staffing and training expenses at a time when
profit margins are suffering from a general downturn in the economy.
Bank Experience and Strategy in the Sector
1.14      The principal focus of the Bank's lending to the industrial sector
has been through IDB, which has received three Bank loans (Nos. 946-KE,
1148-KE and 1438-KE) totalling US$35 million since its establishment in 1973.
The Bank Group is also assisting the SSI sector through an IDA credit (No.
750-KE) to KIE to help strengthen its institutional capabilities to service
the financial and technical assistance needs of SSI, and to finance industrial
estate development and term lending to SSIs. IFC has made two investments in
private manufacturing firms in Kenya; one in Pan African Paper Mills, the
other in a major textile firm, Rift Valley Textile Mills (RIVATEX). In
addition, IFC extended a line of credit to Kenya Commercial Bank for the
financing of medium and small scale enterprises in 1977 (para. 1.20).
1.15      The Bank has maintained a continuous and active dialogue with the
Government concerning Kenya's industrialization policies, and has also pro-
vided consultant services on specific industrial policy issues. The major
new emphasis in industrialization strategy proposed in the Fourth Development
Plan is aimed at effectively coming to grips with the developmental issues
presently facing the industrial sector to increase the sector's contribution
to Kenya's future economic development. The policy measures proposed to
implement the strategy, however, will only gradually take effect, in particular
because of the present structure of Kenyan industry and presently prevailing
macroeconomic constraints, but deserve the Bank's support. The proposed loan
to IDB will contribute to this, as will the proposed second program credit
which will be designed to provide balance of payments support to assist in the
restructuring of the trade regime (para. 3.01).



-8-
B.   The Financial Sector
Recent Developments
1.16      The main recent developments in the financial sector included a
decline in external reserves, a slight increase in overall credit growth,
and a marked shift from private sector to government bank borrowing. The
latter was due to a tightening in commercial bank liquidity positions, res-
trictive credit guidelines imposed on commercial banks by the Central Bank,
and the availability of attractive investment opportunities in Treasury Bills
which diverted resources from the private sector. A slowdown in economic
activity coincided with reduced bank lending to certain enterprises facing
financial difficulties. Credit to the government priority sectors of agricul-
ture, manufacturing, and Kenyan small-scale enterprises, however, rose sub-
stantially during 1978-79. The high liquidity levels in the banking system
over much of the past three years as a result of the boom in coffee prices
have dropped due to recent foreign exchange restrictions - including a 100%
non interest bearing deposit on importation of finished goods and the non-
routine processing of requests for raw material imports - which have resulted
in an increased demand for funds for operating companies.
1.17      Additional recent monetary and credit measures taken by Government
as a result of the softening of Kenya's balance of payments position and
the upward surge of domestic prices in the past two years include: raising
the Central Bank of Kenya rates for advances and discounts by one percentage
point in mid-1978; subjecting the banks to a cash ratio requirement of 3%;
and, limiting credit expansion by the commercial banks to the private sector
in 1978-79 to a target annual growth rate of 18%. The Government's recent
decision to impose restrictions on the repatriation of dividends on foreign
equity to 10% of investment in any year, together with the restriction of
borrowings by foreign controlled companies from local banks to 20% of their
investment, has dampened potential foreign interest in investing in Kenya
in the near future, and has depressed the growth of investments requir-
ing foreign exchange.
The Institutional Structure
1.18      For a country at its stage of economic development, Kenya has a
well developed banking system and financial sector consisting of the Central
Bank, 16 commercial banks, five development banks (including the EADB), 15
non-bank financial institutions (among which are merchant banks, housing
finance, and hire-purchase companies) several other financial intermediaries
and a securities exchange. The Kenyan public sector owns 100% of the largest
commercial bank, three of the development banks, and the specialized institu-
tions lending to agriculture, tourism, and housing. In addition, it owns a
share in several other commercial banks and the two other development banks.



1.19      The Central Bank is primarily concerned with monetary policy,
including quantitative, qualitative, and sectoral control of credit. It
supervises operations of commercial banks, accepts deposits from and collects
money on account of banks and Government, and provides inter-bank clearing
facilities. The Central Bank controls the operations of the financial insti-
tutions through issuance of directives on such matters as sectors to be
given priority in lending, interest rate structures, minimum liquidity ratio
levels, and control of lending to foreign controlled companies. While the
Central Bank is recognized as the monetary authority, its regulation of the
financial sector operates primarily on a laissez-faire and moral suasion basis
rather than on a legalistic and regulatory basis.
1.20      The Commercial Banks.  There are 16 commercial banks currently
operating in Kenya. The three largest, Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Barclay's
Bank and Standard Bank Ltd. dominate the banking system, accounting for
approximately 90% of total deposits and commercial banking credits, and
owning virtually all of the banking branches outside Nairobi and Mombasa.
There are over 250 bank branches, sub-branches and agencies in the country,
besides several mobile bank units which visit a number of smaller towns
and villages at regular intervals. The Government-owned KCB, the largest
bank in Kenya, has developed significant deposit and lending business in
the rural areas and presently obtains 30% of its deposits from its 23 rural
branches and mobile units, while the Barclay's and Standard Banks emphasize
lending to old and established Kenyan based foreign companies. The KCB has
established a small and medium-scale industrial enterprise lending program
through use of an IFC foreign exchange facility which is matched by a similar
contribution of local currency by KCB. The remaining banks are foreign
controlled, and tend to be rather specialized in the areas of domestic trade
and import/export financing. Many of these smaller banks are oriented towards
servicing the needs of foreign companies including foreign exchange and letter
of credit business. While commercial banks occasionally make medium and
longer term loans as well as equity investments through their subsidiaries,
they are primarily engaged in short-term financing to the manufacturing,
agriculture, and commerce sectors. However, a large part of the credit is
provided to well-established companies, primarily as short-term working
capital under an overdraft system which can be rolled over, and represents,
to some extent, a substitute for longer-term lending.
1.21      The Development Banks.  Of the five development banks, the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB), the Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK), the
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), and the East African Development Bank (EADB)
confine their operations to the industrial sector while the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation's (ICDC) operations cover both industrial
and commercial sectors. These banks have relatively clearly delineated fields
of activity and there is little duplication of efforts in the financing of the
industrial sector. The EADB has been seriously affected by the break-up of
the East African Community and its role is being reformulated. ICDC, which is
the largest source of financing in Kenya for both the public and the private
sector, is often used by the Government to assist in execution of its policies.
While ICDC has made a considerable number of investments in large sized indus-
tries, it has begun to redirect its efforts to the support of smaller scale



- 10 -
industrial and commercial enterprises - particularly in the rural areas - and
to the Kenyanization of these activities. KIE focuses solely on the develop-
ment of small-scale enterprises by providing infrastructure, technical services
and credit (for equipment and machinery) mainly through the creation of indus-
trial estates. DFCK directs its primary attention to the spectrum of the
somewhat larger private foreign owned enterprises, particular'  the expansions
of well established ones. While resource constraints have limited DFCK's
impact, it has brought through its overseas majority shareholders, important
technical advice and foreign partners into Kenya's industrial sector. Although
similar to DFCK in focus, IDB is the predominant institution specializing in
the provision of term financing to medium and large industrial enterprises in
Kenya, particularly for foreign exchange requirements.
1.22      The Non-Bank Financing Institutions.  Although their deposit
resources are smaller, Kenya's fifteen non-bank financial institutions have
been growing faster than commercial banks, mostly because they pay higher
interest rates than the commercial banks and offer more specialized services,
more categories of term deposit facilities and generally lower minimum deposit
requirements.l/ They fund transactions which may be outside the scope of com-
mercial bank lending such as mortgage finance for home ownership, hire purchase
of consumer goods and merchant banking. Although licensed under the same
Banking Act as commercial banks, the non-bank financial institutions cannot
accept checking accounts. They compete effectively with commercial banks and
make a significant contribution to the mobilization of private savings as well
as to the supply of credit to enterprises and private households. The list of
Kenya's commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions can be found in
the Project File.
1.23      Other Financial Institutions.  There are also several public sector
financial intermediaries such as the National Social Security Fund and the
Kenya Post Office Savings Bank (jointly owned by the Government of Kenya,
Uganda, and Tanzania), several insurance companies, and six official spe-
cialized institutions providing development finance. Among these, the
Agricultural Finance Corporation, the Agricultural Development Corporation,
and the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation all provide medium and long-
term finance for agriculture, while the National Housing Corporation and
the Housing Finance Company of Kenya grant mortgages for home building and
heavy construction, and the Kenya Tourism Development Corporation provides
financial and technical services to tourism development projects.
1.24      The Stock Exchange.  The Nairobi Stock Exchange has five members
and 58 companies registered, half of whose securities are traded regularly.
Most issues are common shares, but several preference and debenture issues
1/   Deposits in the non-bank financial institutions grew by an average 32%
per annum during the period December 1973 - September 1978 while those
in the commercial banks grew by 21% p.a. during the same period. As a
result, deposits in these institutions represented 24% of total deposits
in commercial banks at September 1978 (agaist 16% at end 1973).



- 11 -
are also traded. Registered Kenyan firms have generally maintained a policy
of steady dividend payments; current dividend yields range from 7% to 25%
per annum with a few speculative issues yielding more. The index of share
prices on the stock market (January 1974 = 100) rose rapidly from 227 at
end 1977 to 420 by end 1978 due to the coffee boom, and had levelled off at
about 350 as of April 1979. Although active and well developed, the Stock
Exchange is still small and is not considered a major source for industrial
finance, partly because of the preference of large, well established com-
panies for institutional participation. The volume of business has declined
considerably since the introduction of a 35% capital gains tax in June 1975.
Although recent Government measures (paras. 1.16 and 1.17) could result in
an increased cost of capital and a new drive to raise less expensive capital
through the stock exchange and other sources, the number of future issues is
likely to be small unless a deliberate effort is made to popularize the stock
exchange through provision of some form of incentive such as tax concessions.
Interest Rates
1.25      Commercial bank interest rates for Kenya are fixed by the Central
Bank at a maximum 10% lending rate while their deposit rates range from 5% to
5.9%. The development banks presently charge 10 1/2 to 13% on long-term funds.
The non-bank financial institutions are allowed higher deposit and lending
rates in the range of 12% to 14%. The present structure of interest rates
in the country is presented in Annex 2. The commercial banks cannot easily
increase effective interest rates by adding fees and service charges, many of
which are also controlled by the Central Bank. The prevailing interest rate
appears to be on the low side given inflation rates of 16% in 1976, 19.6% in
1977, 15% in 1978 and an estimated inflation rate of about 12% in 1979
(projected to decline to 10% in 1980), and given the decreased liquidity
of commercial banks and the limitations on foreign exchange dealings. The
Government of Kenya is presently undertaking an overall review of the level
and structure of interest rates and interest rate policy, which should be
completed by April 1980, and has agreed to discuss its results with the Bank
at that time. IDB's interest rate structure is presented in para. 2.21.
II. THE INSTITUTION
A. Institutional Aspects
Objectives and Role
2.01      As a result of joint efforts by the Government, the Bank and its
parent company ICDC, IDB was incorporated under the Companies Act in 1973
as a limited liability company to assist in the development and expansion of
medium to large-scale industrial enterprises through the provision of long-
term loans, equity investments, and guarantees.



- 12 -
Ownership and Board of Directors
2.02      IDB's initial authorized Class "A" ordinary share capital of
Ksh. 40 million has been increased in three steps to Ksh 200 million auth-
orized, with Ksh 129.3 million fully paid as of December 1979. Under the new
share capital subscription agreement, the Government with a 49% share will
remain the largest shareholder, while ICDC and three new public sector
shareholders, the Kenya National Assurance Company (KNAC) and the National
Bank of Kenya (NBK) introduced in 1975 and the Kenya Reinsurance Corpora-
tion (KRC) introduced in 1978, will each own 12.75% of IDB's share capital.
Moreover, IDB has authorized Class "B" ordinary shares of Ksh 40 million with
Ksh 29.2 million fully paid as of December 31, 1979. Class "B" ordinary
shares do not carry voting rights under ordinary circumstances but participate
in dividends equally with Class "A" shares. All the subscribed Class "B"
ordinary shares are presently held by the Government but other shareholders
are also free to subscribe to Class "B" shares.
2.03      At an April 1979 General Meeting, the number of Directors of the
Board was reduced from nine to eight. Two directors, appointed for two year
terms, represent the four institutional shareholders (ICDC, KNAC, NBK and
KRC). The remaining six Directors are appointed for three year terms: two
representing the Government (the Ministries of Finance and Industry); three
independently appointed by the Minister of Finance (two from the private
sector) because of their known experience and standing in the country; and,
IDB's Managing Director. An Executive Director with the Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation, experienced businessman, and IDB Board member since its
inception, was recently named the new Chairman. The list of IDB's Directors
is contained in Annex 3.
2.04      Although the Government appoints all IDB's Directors, the Board has
full autonomy in investment decisions and has exercised this independence
adequately. IDB's Board plays an active role in overseeing all aspects of
IDB's activities including detailed review of projects, budgets, and staffing.
It meets every six weeks, has maintained a good attendance record, and is
actively responsible for the general policy and the direction of operations
of the Bank. The recent changes should result in a more cohesive, business
oriented Board, yet clearly responsive to Government's policies in the indus-
trial sector. Its already high level of effectiveness should, thus, be
further enhanced.
Management, Organization and Staffing
2.05      IDB's present management, with the assistance of its Board of
Directors, has built IDB into one of the leading financial institutions in
Kenya. The Managing Director has built up a strong and capable Kenyan staff
since he assumed his position five years ago. He has good working relation-
ships and close contact with the two senior officers in charge of the operating
departments: his Chief of Operations, in charge of four of IDB's six opera-
tional divisions, and the Chief Accountant responsible for the other two. The



- 13 -
management team has been recently strengthened by the appointment of a Chief
Legal Officer, who also acts as Secretary to the Board, and a Chief Establish-
ment Officer with responsibilities for administration, staff development, and
personnel.
2.06      IDB's organization chart is shown in Annex 4.  The Operations
Department, manned by 18 professionals, is comprised of the Investigations,
Research and Promotion, Investments, and Project Advisory Services divisions,
each headed by a manager. The divisions have functional responsibilities
for investigation and appraisal of new projects; research relating to IDB's
operations, promotion, and appraisal of promoted projects; monitoring implemen-
tation and performance of approved investments; and, assisting projects facing
management and technical problems, respectively. The Accounts Department,
with nine professionals, is responsible for all financial and accounting
functions, disbursement of loan funds, loan collection, and preparation of
long-term forecasts of operations and financial projections of the Bank.
It is organized in two divisions - headed by Assistant Chief Accountants -
basically separating the responsibilities between Controller and Treasury
activities. An Internal Auditor has been appointed recently to strengthen
further the accounts systems and procedures. While IDB's organization has
been adequate to meet past requirements, expanded functions for a revitalized
Management Committee and a formalized asset management function in the finance
and accounting area appear necessary to improve specific weaknesses of the
appraisal and supervision procedures of IDB (para. 2.18).
2.07      As of January 1979, IDB had a total staff of 33 professionals
working in its four departments. The quality of IDB's professional staff,
both in terms of academic and professional background, is excellent at all
levels. All department heads and the divisional managers are competent.
While there has been no professional staff turnover to date, and salaries
and benefits are competitive, current administration costs are a high 3.1%
of total assets. Management plans to freeze staff levels for the next few
years 1/ as it feels that the present staff is capable of processing a larger
volume of business. All top management and division manager posts with
the exception of the Project Advisory Services Division are held by Kenyans.
Only three expatriates--an Industrial Economist and a Financial Adviser
(both UNDP financed) and the Project Advisory Services Division Manager (ODM
financed) hold positions in IDB.
2.08      Staff training and development has received considerable attention
in recent years. In-house and overseas training have generally focused on
project appraisal techniques, accounting, finance, management techniques, law
and taxation. In 1978, 17 professional staff received some type of training
with seven taking courses abroad for periods exceeding three months. There
is a training program for each division as well as orientation programs for
new recruits. The cost of courses outside IDB are to a large extent borne by
a variety of international donor agencies including the World Bank.
1/   After adding several staff positions included in the 1979 budget.



- 14 -
Operating Policies
2.09      Guidelines for IDB's operations are set forth in its Statement of
Policy and Regulations (Annex 5) which has been updated and revised from
time-to-time since its adoption by IDB's Board of Directors in 1973. No
substantial amendments have been made since the last Bank app isal except
with respect to a medium-sized enterprise 1/ financing scheme aimed at devel-
oping Kenyan owned enterprises outside Mombasa and Nairobi. The scheme will
aim at providing an integrated package of long-term finance and equity plus
business advisory services (covering identification, preparation, and general
business advice). Under this scheme IDB will finance suitable enterprises to
the extent of 75% of total costs of the project with loans for up to 13 years
and bearing interest of 12%. In addition, IDB can - under a managed funds
agreement with Government - provide assistance in implementing projects for
the Government's account on a commission basis. Only one such project has
been undertaken to date. As part of its policy to support the development of
Kenya's Stock Exchange, IDB - together with IFC - plans to underwrite a new
debenture issue for one of its client companies. With IBRD agreement, IDB
plans (i) to make additional amendments in its statement of policy to expand
the scope of its lending activity to include loans for the shipping and
transport sectors and for imported raw material financing for its customers;
and (ii) to include an amendment which would allow the acquisition of shares
of profitable companies as part of its portfolio management to maximize the
use of temporarily idle resources. IDB would limit such acquisitions to a few
unusually profitable and stable issues on the Nairobi stock exchange.
2.10      In mid 1979, IDB was approved as a non-bank financial institution
(para. 1.22). This will allow it to raise additional local currency resources
by accepting time deposits (mostly from publicly owned financial intermedia-
ries, such as the National Social Security Fund). IDB has decided to limit
its initial activities in these areas to financing imported raw materials for
its clients and processing letters of credit for transactions it is financing.
Collection of deposits and expansion of lending to include other working
capital financing, and industrial buildings which IDB is also considering,
would represent substantive changes in IDB's Statement of Policy which would
require the approval of the Bank.
2.11      An important aspect of IDB's practical application of operational
policies involves its relationship with Government, particularly in delibera-
tions on policy and planning in the industrial sector. IDB has established
itself as a credible and experienced partner with Government in preparation
of long-term plans and objectives and in review and policy formulation in the
industrial sector. It has established good working relationships with the
Ministries of Economic Planning, Finance and Industry, and with other key
institutions involved in industrial development, and is now participating in
deliberations of relevant committees of the Government which are involved in
formulating industrial policies. IDB normally prepares profiles and feasi-
bility studies on potential projects and policy papers on specific subjects
for discussion with the Government of Kenya.
1/   Defined as enterprises with total investment costs below Ksh 10 million.



- 15 -
Procedures
2.12      Promotion.  In its earlier years, IDB placed relatively little
emphasis on promotion as it was able to grow rapidly without it. In order
to diversify its operations and to better support the Government's objectives
for industrial development, the Research and Promotion Division, supported by
a staff of five, was established in early 1977 to actively pursue promotional
activities. The three main responsibilities of this division are promoting
the development of industrial projects, conducting economic and industrial
research and studies to assist the promotion effort, and appraising IDB
promoted projects for presentation to the Board. An increasingly large
portion of approved projects are being promoted and appraised by this division
and the projects to be appraised by the R and P Division roughly equal those
of the Investigations Division (see para. 2.13) in 1979. To underline the
emphasis IDB places on promotion, the Divisional Manager of R and P reports
directly to the Managing Director, as well as to the Chief of Operations.
2.13      Appraisals.  Appraisal of projects presented to IDB by sponsors
who have prepared their own feasibility study and basic project preparation
work (i.e., those not promoted by IDB) is the responsibility of the Investi-
gations Division. Applications for all new loan and equity investments go
through a preliminary screening before a full appraisal is undertaken. In
both the R and P and the Investigations divisions, a Project Officer is
initially assigned responsibility for the project and an Issues Paper is
prepared, followed by a preliminary Board Paper (if the project is considered
viable) which the Chief of Operations presents to the Board. If the project
is approved, the Project Officer and a support team are requested to carry
out an appraisal. Average elapsed time of appraisal is six weeks after the
initial preparation work. Productivity is adequate as - in 1978 - the average
amount approved per professional staff member at IDB was $594,000 ($518,000 in
1977), about average for African dfcs.
2.14      With the rapid growth of operations the quality of IDB's appraisals -
- although still generally acceptable - has been gradually deteriorating. The
main weaknesses in existing procedures include: (i) present appraisal proce-
dures do not provide for adequate management review before submission to the
Board; (ii) appraisal reports, while providing extensive information, do not
place enough emphasis on the critical analysis of this information, particu-
larly concerning the financial risks for IDB; and, (iii) lack of identifica-
tion of possible areas of difficulty for the project and the highlighting of
specific areas which would require special monitoring during implementation.
Particular areas which could be strengthened further in terms of quality
of appraisals are the marketing aspects, the financial projections and the
accuracy of the proposed implementation schedules. The recently revitalized
management committee (para. 2.18) which would critically review all appraisals
and establish the proposed loan conditions before Board presentation should
achieve the needed improvements.



- 16 -
2.15      Supervision.  Follow-up work is the responsibility of the Invest-
ments Division. It is supported by the Legal Department which handles the
preparation of the loan/investment documents. There are still, on occasion,
considerable delays between approvals and commitment/effectiveness, as projects
are presented to the Board before legal provisions are negotiated with the
sponsors. A -ecently established Management Committee review (para. 2.18)
should firm up projects before Board presentation and reduce delays. Supervi-
sion of projects under construction is adequately handled and involves the
follow-up of the implementation schedule and conditions agreed at the time of
commitment. Three site visits are usually involved; one at the time of
construction of the building, another when the equipment is installed and a
third after start-up of operations. Although carried out regularly and on the
basis of a supervision manual, the follow-up of operating projects is done on
a routine non-critical basis and, while difficult projects are supposed to be
assigned to senior officers and problem free projects to junior officers for
follow-up, a standard supervision report is produced for all projects.
Indeed, there is no clear cut definition of problem projects, specific recom-
mendations for action are rarely incorporated, and the decisions regarding
problem projects are left to the Board in the context of its periodic review
of IDB's projects. As a result, reports are superficial, focus on statistical
information, and do not play the useful function of warning IDB's management
and Board on potential problems at an early stage. In addition, given its
importance and potential risk (para. 2.23), specific procedures should be
devised to closely monitor IDB's equity portfolio. The institutionalization
of a problem projects review within the Management Committee, and the formal-
ization and expansion of asset management functions within the financial
management area (para. 2.18) should improve these two major supervision
weaknesses. IDB plans to hire an assistant to achieve a more systematic
control of client reporting.
2.16      Procurement and Disbursement.  In line with standard practice for
dfcs, IDB normally requires that its borrowers submit at least three competi-
tive quotations from suppliers and, sometimes, depending on the type of
equipment and size of the contract, insists on international competitive
bidding. The merits of the various offers are evaluated jointly by the sub-
borrower and the Investments Division, and the final procurement contract is
subject to IDB's approval. Disbursements are authorized by the Accounting
Department, after consultation with the Investments Division, against submis-
sion of satisfactory documents and progress reports on project implementation.
IDB's procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate at this time.
2.17      Auditors and Lawyers.  IDB's working relationships with its auditors
(Pannell Fitzpatrick Bellhouse Mwangi and Company) and attorneys (Kaplan and
Stratton) have been good. The past audits including those for 1977 and 1978
have been satisfactory.  The attorneys are working closely with IDB's Legal
Officer and have also provided informal training support.
2.18      Proposals to Strengthen IDB's Organization and Procedures.  IDB is
a relatively strong and well managed institution at present but this strength
could be dissipated if the present strains and procedural weaknesses are not
eliminated. In the past, IDB has had the tendency to increase staff rather
than remove deficiencies in procedures and organization, with consequent



- 17 -
high costs. IDB has now taken recent organizational steps to assure that:
(i) the appraisal process provides a more critical evaluation of the risks and
issues associated with new loan and equity investment proposals; and, (ii)
the rapidly increasing supervision workload is rationally planned, responsibil-
ity for action on problem projects effectively assigned and comprehensive
follow-up of equity investments established. To that effect, IDB has agreed:
(1) That its recently revitalized Management Committee will be
maintained with responsibilities to include critically
screening all new proposals (including "follow-up" investments
relating to existing projects) before presentation to IDB's
Board and regularly reviewing the status of problem projects.
(2) To formalize and expand its asset management functions within
its financial management department to enhance IDB's profit-
ability and liquidity through management of its equity
portfolio.
On the basis of a review of personnel requirements with IDB's management,
these new functions within IDB's organization can be carried out with
existing personnel and should not require the hiring of additional
professional staff.
B.   Operations and Finance
Operations
2.19      Annex 6 contains a summary of IDB's operations through December
31, 1979. As of that date, IDB had approved, net of cancellations, 83
loans totalling Kshs 459 million in 71 enterprises. It had also approved net
equity investments totalling Kshs 122.9 million in 41 enterprises. Primarily
as a result of its consolidation strategy (para. 2.33), IDB's total approvals
decreased from Kshs 145 million in 1978 to Kshs 135 million in 1979, with new
equity approvals dropping sharply. Prior to 1979, IDB has been one of the
fastest growing dfcs in Africa. Its total approvals had increased 14.2% per
year in real terms between 1974 and 1978. During the same period, loan
approvals grew in real terms at 17.3% and equity investments at 7.2% annually.
IDB's growth rate considerably exceeded the estimated growth in capital
formation in manufacturing in Kenya (estimated at about 5% per year for
the 1974-1977 period) and can be mainly attributed to active management,
successful resource mobilization and IDB's willingness to accept risks. IDB
achieved this rapid growth while generally maintaining the speed of project
processing: between 1976 and 1978, cumulative commitments increased from 85%
of approvals to about 89% and cumulative disbursements rose from 55% of
approvals to 61%. At year-end 1978, however, of the 23 projects approved
during the year, 6 remained uncommitted and disbursements had begun on only 6
projects indicating some recent deterioration in processing speed from 1977
levels. This was attributable in part to lack of preparation, particularly of
legal provisions, before Board presentation.



- 18 -
2.20      An analysis of IDB's loan and equity operations through 1978 by
size, project characteristics and sector is shown in Annex 7. A majority of
IDB's loan and equity investments (63% of the number of projects) are less
than Kshs 8 million in value, while 23% (constituting 47.5% of the value of
approvals) are for investments of over Kshs 12 million. About 11% of the
value of IDB's approvals (30% of the number of approvals) have >een for
projects of Kshs 10 million or less in size, and 21% for projects of over Kshs
100 million. IDB's resources (loan and equity) represented about 62% of
project cost for projects below Kshs 10 million and only 3% for projects over
Kshs 100 million in size. Average size of IDB investment is about Kshs 7.5
million. IDB policy constraints on size of investment in one enterprise is
20% of net worth or presently about Kshs 28 million, which has been approached
in only one project to date. Expansion projects increased in relative import-
ance reaching about 41% of the value of total approvals by year-end 1978
primarily because 16 of 44 projects approved in 1977 and 1978 were repeat
projects. 1/
Portfolio
2.21      Loan Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1979, IDB's total loan portfolio
outstanding was Kshs 254 million of which Kshs 222 million (87%) represented
foreign currency loans and about Kshs 32 million (13%) were local currency
loans. The portfolio is reasonably well balanced among sectors with a rela-
tive concentration in engineering, metals and machinery and in food and
beverages. Implementation has been completed on about two thirds of the 83
loan projects in the portfolio. There are implementation delays on several
loans approved prior to 1978. In accordance with IDB policies, lending terms
are usually nine years with two years' grace for foreign currency loans and
seven years with two years' grace for local currency loans. IDB's loans
approved prior to September 1979 have carried interest rates of 11.0% p.a. on
foreign-currency denominated loans, 12.0% p.a. on local currency loans,
commitment fees of 1.0% on undisbursed balances and a progressive appraisal
fee of 1/4 to 1% on the loan amount, depending on its size. Foreign exchange
risks have been passed to subborrowers.
2.22      The quality of IDB's loan portfolio has deteriorated somewhat in
the past year. As of December 31, 1979 IDB had total arrears of about Kshs
19.5 million of which Kshs 4.3 million represented arrears on principal
and interest that were at least six months past due. These more serious
arrears related to 10 projects with a total balance outstanding of about Kshs
54 million or 21% of the portfolio. At the time of appraisal, five loans had
been rescheduled, of which two involved companies which have now become
profitable. IDB had received or expected to receive requests to reschedule
four additional loans totalling Kshs 28 million. IDB believes outstanding
loans to two projects in receivership will be recovered as the collateral is
adequate. It has written off bad debt expense of Kshs 0.3 million relating
1/   While 10 of these repeat projects were expansions, three (total value
Kshs 1.5 million) represented replacement of lost capital and three
were financing overruns.



- 19 -
to one loan in its December 31, 1978 audited accounts. While IDB had no
formal problem project classification until recently (para. 2.15), thirteen
projects might be described as problem projects.
2.23      Equity Portfolio.  IDB's equity portfolio at December 31, 1979
consisted of holdings in 32 companies and was valued on a cost basis at
Kshs 87.5 million. There were no accumulated provisions for loss, but write-
offs of Kshs 3.75 million in 1977 and Kshs 2.1 million in 1978 were major
contributors to IDB's poor profit performance in these years. Eight equity
investments involving about Kshs 19 million (22% of the equity portfolio)
could be classified as problem projects primarily on the basis of weak finan-
cial performance. IDB equity participations have ranged from 2% to 41% (more
typically 12-25%) ownership and it follows a general practice of appointing a
member of the Board and not otherwise participating directly in management.
About one third of the equity portfolio is concentrated in food and beverages,
with most of the remainder about equally divided among textiles, chemicals and
plastics, engineering, metals and machinery, and fibres and cordages. In
1977-1978, IDB has reduced its relative exposure in the high risk textile
sector from 43% of the equity portfolio to about 14.5%. 1978 dividends
received, representing a 4% return on average portfolio, were satisfactory in
view of the unseasoned status of the companies (20% of the investment is in
companies that are still in the implementation stage). IDB's estimated 1979
dividends, however, represent only a 2.5% return on portfolio.
2.24      New equity approvals in 1979 represented only 10% of total approvals
(compared with 26% in 1978) and equity investments at December 31, 1979 were a
still relatively high 26% of total portfolio (down from 31.5% in 1978). High
writeoffs of losses on equity investments in 1977 and 1978 and the anticipated
need for future writeoffs generally relating to the investment in problem
projects are having an adverse effect on IDB's profitability. To improve this
situation, IDB has also agreed to limit total equity investments to not more
than 80% of its Class 'A' subscribed capital during the commitment period of
the proposed loan. The Board has recently authorized management to investigate
the possibility of divesting in companies, such as family controlled enter-
prises, where continued equity participation by IDB would adversely affect
its long term profitability. In addition, formalization and expansion of
asset management functions within IDB's financial management department (para.
2.18) should allow for closer follow-up of the equity portfolio.
2.25      Provisions.  Provisions for bad debt and losses on equity investment
as of December 31, 1978 are inadequate to cover risks of potential losses.
This is so largely because IDB has no policy or regularized basis for the
treatment of writeoffs and provisions for losses on equity investment and bad
debt relating to the loan portfolio, and has focused on this issue on a case
by case basis and when the need for specific writeoffs cannot be avoided any
longer. Although the situation is not of a nature to impair IDB's present
financial viability and IDB's financial statements still represent present
general financial condition adequately, a continuation of the present ad hoc
approach to writeoffs is likely to lead to an increase in underprovisions over
time and, as a result, to an erratic profit performance. Therefore, IDB has
agreed to annually increase provisions for possible losses on its portfolio in
amounts sufficiently larger than actual writeoffs for realized losses so that



- 20 -
by December 31, 1982 cumulative provisions will be adequate to fully provide
for possible losses and will represent not less than 3% of the value of the
total portfolio.
Financial Condition
2.26      Profitability.  Annex 8 shows IDB's audited income statements for
1974 through 1978. Audited statements for 1979 are under preparation.
Following small profits in 1975 and 1976, IDB has incurred net losses in 1977
and 1978. IDB also anticipates a loss in 1979 with preliminary results
showing a profit of about Kshs .4 million before provisions for losses on
portfolio and taxes. The 1978 loss of Kshs 2.44 million represented 1% of
average total assets. While the writeoffs of losses on equity invest-
ments (para. 2.24) have contributed substantially to poor profitability
performance and are higher than projected in the previous appraisal, operating
profits before writeoffs also steadily decreased from about Kshs 1.6
million in 1976 (1.3% of total assets), to a slight operating loss in 1978.
This downward trend in operating profit from 1975 to 1978 was caused by
a steady reduction in the spread on borrowed funds from 3.4% in 1976 to a low
2.7% in 1978 and an increase in administrative expense from 3.0% of total
assets in 1976 to 3.6% in 1978 or double the 1.8% projected for that year in
the previous appraisal. This variance was due to higher inflation, lower than
anticipated growth in total assets, and substantial cost increases in support
of management's strong growth orientation.
2.27      To increase profitability, IDB has decided, effective September 1,
1979, to raise its existing interest rates to 12.5% on foreign exchange loans
and 13.0% on local currency loans to reserve the right to review the rates
periodically in the future. They have also increased other fees, including an
increase in the commitment fee to 1 1/4%. These increases exceed the in-
creases recommended by the Bank. IDB feels the new lending rates will not
depress demand for its funds but the impact of these increases should be
carefully monitored. In any case IDB has agreed to maintain interest rates on
foreign exchange denominated loans at not less than 12% during the commitment
period of the proposed loan. Also IDB is conscious of the impact of rising
administrative expenses on profitability and plans to limit the number of
employees (para. 2.07) and to carefully control other administrative costs.
2.28      Financial Situation.  IDB's audited balance sheets for the past
five years (Annex 9) reflect the rapid growth in its operations. Cash flow
statements are shown in Annex 10 and financial ratios in Annex 11. Year-end
1978 total assets have risen 87% from the 1976 level. Despite this growth,
IDB's financial situation has remained reasonably sound.  The debt to equity
ratio of 1.4 remains well under the 4:1 limitation in IDB's policy statement
because of increases of about Kshs 53 million in paid-in capital. Net current
assets of Kshs 33 million are down slightly from 1976 levels because of a 27%
drop in short term deposits reflecting a better use of existing resources.
From 1976 to 1978, the current ratio declined from 4.4 to 2.4 but remains
satisfactory. Debt service coverage in 1978 dropped to a low 0.9 due parti-
cularly to an inadequate Kshs 0.5 million in funds generated from operations
because of the net losses.



- 21 -
C.   Economic Role and Performance
Economic Impact of Operations
2.29      Reflecting the general investment climate in Kenya, about 81% of the
projects (both in number and value of approvals) are import substitution
oriented, showing little change from previous years. Among 1977-78 approvals
for which data is available, an average of 68% of raw material requirements
are estimated to come from Kenyan sources. The proportion of the number of
projects representing a majority Kenyan ownership and projects outside Nairobi
and Mombasa have increased, but the percentage of value of IDB approvals for
such projects decreased somewhat to 66% and 60% respectively, due to the
smaller average size of these projects. Among 1977-1978 appraisal projects
for which internal rates of return were available, 45% showed projected
financial rates of return greater than 25% and 69% had estimated economic
returns above 15%. The average forecasted financial and economic rates of
return are both about 24%. Average investment cost per job of US$25,000 1/
is comparable to other dfcs in East Africa. The 44 projects in which IDB
participated financially during 1977-78 had a total cost of Kshs 2460 million.
Disbursements made by IDB in 1977 represented about 6.5% of the gross capital
formation in manufacturing in Kenya in that year.
2.30      The distribution by value of IDB total approvals among sectors is
fairly well balanced, with the heaviest concentration in engineering, metals
and machinery (24%), food and beverages (23%), textiles (15%), chemicals and
rubber (15%) and fibres and cordages (11%). In the past two years there has
been a significant increase in the percentage of approvals invested in engi-
neering, metals and machinery (up from 16%) and a decrease in the percentage
invested in textiles (down from 23.5%).
Resource Mobilization
2.31      IDB has been quite successful in mobilizing resources from foreign
institutions. It has negotiated total foreign exchange resources of about
Kshs 416 million (US$56 million) of which IBRD loans constitute 62%. Other
lenders are the German Development Company (DEG), the African Development
Bank (ADB), tMorgan Grenfell and Company (ECDG) and the Industrial Development
Bank of India (IDBI). These resources have been made available at interest
rates of 7% to 9 1/2% and at maturities of five to 15 years. Concerning local
currency resources, IDB has generated Kshs 138 million through December 31,
1978 of which paid-in capital comprises 89% and only Kshs 20 million has
been borrowed from four domestic financial institutions at interest rates
of 8-1/2% to 9-1/2% with average maturities of seven years. IDB's resource
position at December 31, 1978 showing uncommited resources in foreign ex-
change of Kshs 161.6 million and Kshs 0.65 million in local resources is
presented in Annex 12.
1/   Average investment cost per job is $35,000 if two large capital intensive
projects, for which IDB provided less than 2% of the total investment,
are included.



- 22 -
Performance Under Previous Loans
2.32      The Bank has so far provided three lines of credit to IDB aggregat-
ing US$35 million of which US$30.7 million had been committed and US$19.5
million had been disbursed at February 20, 1980. The first line of credit
of US$5 million is fully committed and fully disbursed. The t-ond line of
credit of US$10 million is also fully committed while the third line of credit
is 79% committed. Under the first two lines of credit, IDB has financed 20
subprojects. On completion, these subprojects will fund an estimated total
investment of US$209 million and will create about 7,400 jobs at an investment
cost of about US$28,000 per job. They will produce estimated annual foreign
exchange gains of about US$36 million.  Sixteen of these projects have been
completed and, with two exceptions, are operating reasonably satisfactorily.
The Bank's experience with IDB regarding commitments and disbursements under
these credit lines has been generally satisfactory. The Bank was part of a
joint effort to establish IDB (para 2.01) and IDB has responded in a coopera-
tive and effective manner to a continuing dialogue with the Bank concerning
institution building as IDB has rapidly evolved toward its present position as
one of the leading financial institutions in Kenya.
D.   Prospects
IDB Strategy
2.33      Although IDB is performing satisfactorily with a good quality staff
and maintaining generally adequate procedures, there are signs that the fast
pace of historical growth has placed increasing strains on the institution
and the quality of its work. IDB should, therefore, use the next two to three
years as a period of consolidation both for its overall level of operations
and, more importantly, for its organization, internal procedures and staff
development programs. Accordingly, IDB has adopted a future operating strategy
reflecting this need for consolidation which would emphasize internal organiza-
tional and procedural improvements - particularly appraisal and supervision
work - to enhance IDB's already satisfactory contribution to Kenya's changing
industrialization objectives; together with increased selectivity in investment
decisions through more financial risk analysis, more emphasis on quality con-
trol and less emphasis on growth in new project processing, and a decrease in
the level of new equity investments. This is an appropriate time for adopting
such a strategy as Kenya's industrial sector will be going through a period of
restructuring as a result of the proposed shift in emphasis from an import
substitution base to an export oriented one (para. 1.09), and the country's
economic and financial uncertainties, which have depressed forecast demand
for new investment financing during the next two to three years (para. 1.13).
This is likely to result in a slowdown in economic activity which will have
a negative impact on IDB's level of approvals in the next two to three years.
During negotiations IDB submitted a formal statement outlining its strategy of
consolidation and selective growth for the next several years, including a
limitation on the number of employees to 1979 budgeted levels and increased
emphasis on administrative cost control.



- 23 -
Prolected Operations
2.34      IDB's existing pipeline of proposed projects, at the time of appraisal,
consisted of 42 projects requiring estimated IDB financing of Kshs 350 million
(Annex 13). This figure excludes seven projects for which IDB had approved
Kshs 45 million in loans and Kshs 7 million in equity in the first quarter of
1979. Kshs 37 million of the IDB pipeline are medium scale industry loans and
18 projects involving Kshs 224 million (64% of the pipeline) are being promoted
by IDB through its R and P Division. The relatively large number of projects
currently being promoted by IDB represents a departure from the past when
most projects originated from other sources, especially ICDC, ISPC, and more
recently the New Projects Committee and reflect the aggressiveness and
effectiveness of the R and P Division.
2.35      Import substitution projects are expected to continue to represent
slightly more than 80% of the value of IDB anticipated approvals for the
proposed future projects. The estimated 72% of raw materials to be supplied
from Kenyan sources would, however, be higher than for past approvals. The
proposed projects suggest a considerably greater orientation toward majority
Kenyan owned enterprises (86%) and new projects (78%) than exists in the
present portfolio. However, 41% of the pipeline continues to be located
in Nairobi-Mombasa. The pipeline, with 28% of the value of approvals in
chemicals, rubber and plastics, 25% in food and beverages, and 22% in engine-
ering, metals and machinery, exhibits somewhat more concentration by sector
than do historical approvals.
2.36      As a result of its consolidation strategy, IDB projects a moderate
growth in regular loan approvals of 15% p.a. in 1979-1981 1/ and 20% p.a.
thereafter. Medium scale lending will increase sharply in 1979-1980, its
first full years of implementation, and will grow 10% in 1981 and 15% per year
thereafter. In real terms, the projected annual growth in lending from its
1978 base averages 6.5% during the 1979-1981 period and 8.1% over the five
year period ending in 1983, compared with the 9% growth rate for industry
which Kenya has targeted in the 1979-1983 development plan and the anticipated
lower levels of new investment in 1979-80 due to economic and liquidity
factors (paras. 1.13 and 1.17).
2.37      IDB's new equity investment approvals decreased sharply to Kshs 13.4
million in 1979; it projects a further decrease in 1980 and a levelling off
thereafter to reduce the relative size and risk in its overall equity portfolio.
As equity investments are funded in local currency, this strategy will not
affect the level of foreign exchange resources available for worthwhile
projects. IDB has recognized the need to reduce equity investment for some
time and its project pipeline, therefore, includes only nine projects requiring
Kshs 33 million in equity approvals. The projected value at cost of the 1983
equity portfolio of Kshs 133 million would constitute about 19% of total
portfolio and 66% of Class 'A' subscribed capital, a significant improvement
over the 1978 higher risk position.
1/   In 1979, total loan approvals were 13% higher than 1978 levels.



- 24 -
2.38      In line with IDB's strategy, IDB total approvals are expected to
grow at a 12% annual average in current terms over the 1979-1983 period, reach-
ing a level of Kshs 256 million in 1983 (Annex 6). Over the period, total
approvals will amount to Kshs 950 million, commitments to Kshs 858 million and
disbursements to Kshs 814 million. Because of the reduction in new equity
approvals and -he large portion of lending activity foreign loans represent,
foreign loan approvals are projected at Kshs 750 million over the five years
representing 79% of total approvals.
Resource Requirements
2.39      The Kshs 161.5 million resources available for commitments in
foreign exchange at December 31, 1978 (para. 2.31) would allow IDB to fund its
foreign exchange requirements up to around the middle of 1980. During the
period mid-1980 to end 1982, IDB will need Kshs 347 million ($46.3 million) in
foreign currency and it has already secured additional lines of credit of US$6
million from ADB and about US$2.4 million from IDBI which should be available
at the beginning of that period. 1/ This would leave a resource gap of about
$38 million. IDB and the Government would like the Bank to cover most of this
resource gap as they do not want IDB to significantly diversify its sources
of foreign exchange and would rather that IDB restrict itself to dealing with
its existing - well known - donors during this period of consolidation. The
Bank should provide $30 million to cover this gap. BADEA has agreed in
principle to financing $5 million of the remaining $8 million on a parallel
financing basis in conjunction with the proposed Bank loan. IDB should have
no problem in securing the additional $3 million required. Such an IBRD loan
would represent about 65% of IDB's needs in foreign exchange during the two
and a half year period, mid 1980 to end 1982.
2.40      IDB's local currency resource requirements of Kshs 95 million during
the mid-1980 to end 1982 period will be financed primarily through the issue
of additional Class 'A' shares. IDB has obtained agreement in principle from
existing shareholders to raise paid-in capital from Class 'A' shares by Kshs
71 million from end 1979 levels to a total of Kshs 200 million by the end of
1982. The GOK share of Kshs 45 million in this planned increase would maintain
its 49% direct ownership of IDB. IDB received Kshs 15.5 million in paid-in
Class 'B' shares from the Government in 1978 and an additional Kshs 13.7
million in 1979. These funds have been provided to IDB for financing equity
investments. Because of the planned reduction in new equity portfolio invest-
ments and its strong equity base and sound capital structure, IDB need not
solicit additional Class 'B' shares hereafter. IDB agrees that it would be
preferable to finance particular investments that the Government might wish to
have funded, through the managed funds program (para. 2.09) due to the reduced
risk involved. IDB should find its future ability to borrow long term local
currency funds enhanced by its newly achieved status as a non-Bank financial
institution and should have no difficulty in meeting its local currency
requirements during the period.
1/   If these resources are available earlier, as is likely, IDB would have an
additional margin of flexibility, as it could start using these lines of
credit before the IBRD loan is effective.



- 25 -
Projected Financial Condition and Performance
2.41      IDB's projected financial statements are presented in Annexes 8
to 10 and ratio indicators in Annex 11. After a loss in 1979 due largely to
conservatively large provisions for losses on the portfolio, IDB's after tax
profits are projected to rise steadily to a modest 4.5% of average net worth
by 1983. This increase in profitability results from an increase in the
interest spread from 2.7% to 3.7% because of the recent increases to 12.5%
in interest rates on foreign exchange loans and 13% on local currency loans
(para. 2.27), a rise in dividend income to 6.9% of the equity portfolio as the
existing portfolio matures and new equity investments become a smaller portion
of the portfolio, and a planned reduction in administrative cost to 1.9%
of total assets as a result of IDB's planned freeze on new hiring and the
allocation of fixed costs over much larger fixed assets. Although 1983
operating profits rise to a healthy 3.3% of total assets, net profits are
depressed because of tax regulations prohibiting the deduction of pro-
visions for losses from taxable income. After adjustments for anticipated
rescheduling in repayment schedules, IDB's debt service coverage, estimated
at 0.8 in 1979, averages a still low 1.1 thereafter.
2.42      IDB's total assets are projected to increase at an average rate
of 24% annually reaching Kshs 875 million (US$ 117 million) in 1983. The
long-term debt to equity ratio will increase to 2.6:1 which remains very
sound. IDB's liquidity position will remain satisfactory with the current
ratio projected to decrease to a still sound 1.8 in 1983. By 1983, projected
accumulated provisions will have reached an adequate 3.5% of IDB's loan and
equity portfolio. Basic assumptions underlying IDB's projections are in the
Project File.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
3.01      The proposed project would support industrial development in Kenya
in line with the Government's strategy as presented in the Fourth Plan
(para. 1.09). This strategy will gradually shift the focus from an import
substitution industry towards a more export oriented one and may entail
restructuring of existing industries and changes at the policy level. 1/
1/   The Bank has recently negotiated a second Program credit to Kenya which
is providing a forum for policy discussions on industrial strategies and
the IDB operation represents an additional vehicle to establish this
dialogue. Subjects being discussed include priorities for export-oriented
projects in the forward budget, criteria to be used in project evaluations
by public intermediaries, reestablishing priorities for projects which
require foreign financing, and general strategies for export promotion.
The Government has also undertaken, according to terms of reference
agreed with the Bank, to review interest rate policy and its implica-
tions for the economy. A Bank staff member has been seconded to the
Government to assist in the preparation of technical studies required
to carry out a rationalization of the country's system of protective
tariffs and quantitative restrictions.



- 26 -
The project would also provide a continuation of Bank support for IDB, a key
financial institution in the industrial sector, which has shown consistent
and satisfactory improvement in the past five years. This support is parti-
cularly needed at this time to encourage IDB to embark on a consolidation
period which is likely to place some new strains on its overall organization,
procedures and staff development.  In the context of the reforrulation of the
country's industrial policies, this period of consolidation will result in the
proceeds of the proposed line of credit being used to help finance capital
investments on a more selected basis than IDB has funded in the past.
B.   Description of the Project
3.02       The proposed project involves a fourth credit line from the Bank
to IDB of US$30 million to cover part of IDB's needs in foreign currency to
finance medium/large scale enterprises through the period mid 1980 to end
1982. The line of credit would aim at financing the foreign exchange com-
ponent of the fixed capital investment and initial working capital required by
subprojects approved by IDB in all sectors IDB is involved in according to its
policy statement including tourism, shipping, transport, industrial and
agroindustrial activities. The projects would generally be medium to large in
size and would include various mixes of private, public, foreign and Kenyan
ownership. A gradually increasing number of these projects are expected to be
export oriented. 1/ IDB is expected to finance on the average about 30% of
the investment cost of all projects.
3.03       Terms and Conditions.  The proposed line of credit would carry the
following terms and conditions:
(a)  Free Limit.  The free limit for an individual subproject
would be $800,000 which is basically the same in real
terms as established for the previous line of credit.
This would allow a continuation of the level of Bank
monitoring of IDB's appraisals and would provide the
institutional reinforcements needed during the consolida-
tion period. Indeed, this should allow the Bank to review
projects for about 70% of the credit. The aggregate free
limit would be $7 million.
(b)  Relending Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk.  As mentioned
in para. 2.27 above, IDB is raising its interest rates to
12.5% on foreign exchange loans (from 11% presently)
and 13.0% on local currency loans (from 12%). An increased
commitment fee of 1 1/4% and other additional fees would con-
tinue to be charged by IDB (para. 2.21). All foreign exchange
risks would continue to be passed on to IDB's clients. IDB's
1/   The Bank is also considering a technical assistance credit of $4.5 million
to the Government of Kenya which would include funds to finance marketing
and feasibility studies for export oriented projects. The purpose of the
studies would be to fund the generation of basic practical information
needed to identify the real export potential of Kenya's manufacturing
industry.



- 27 -
on-lending rates would be positive in real terms as inflation
in Kenya is expected to drop to 10% in 1980-81 and thereafter,
the disbursement period of the proposed line of credit.
(c) Amortization Schedule and Commitment Fee. In conformity
with the normal IBRD policy for lending to dfcs, the
proposed line of credit to IDB would have a flexible
amortization schedule that would substantially conform
with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
subloans and equity investments made by IDB and financed
under the proposed line of credit, subject to a maximum
of 15 years, including a grace period not to exceed
three years. Full commitment fee should apply to the
undisbursed portion of the proposed line of credit.
(d)  Debt/Equity Ratio Limitation.  Should be maintained at
the present level of 4:1.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
3.04      The total cost of the projects that IDB is likely to finance from
mid 1980 to end 1982 is expected to total about Ksh 1,600 million. IDB's
contribution to these projects would amount to Kshs 442 million of which the
foreign exchange component is estimated at Kshs 347 million.
3.05      IDB's financing plan for the period mid 1980 to end 1982 is forecast
as follows (in Ksh million):
Local           Foreign           Total
Total Commitments from mid
1980 to end 1982                          95              347              442
Resources available for
commitment at mid 1980                    23               57               80
Resource Gap                                (72)            (290)            (362)
To be financed by:
Local currency resources:
- equity                               53               -                53
- cash generation                      19                                19
Subtotal                          72               -                72
Foreign currency resources:
- BADEA                                 -               37               37
- IBRD                                 -               225              225
- Other                                -                28               28
Subtotal                          -               290              290
Total                            72               290              362



- 28 -
The IBRD loan would therefore cover about 65% of IDB's foreign exchange
requirements or 51% of the total requirements to finance commitments between
mid 1980 and end 1982.
D.   Project Implementation
3.06      IDB would have the sole responsibility for implementation of the
project. IDB'S record of implementation on the previous credit lines has
been satisfactory.
3.07      Reporting Requirements.  As in the previous loans, IDB would be
required to submit to the Bank quarterly reports which include, among others,
statements of financial position, resource position and arrears. Additions
to these reporting requirements would be a quarterly report on problem proj-
ects, including the major recommendations for action, as made by the Manage-
ment Committee together with a semi-annual report on the performance of IDB's
equity investments. Annual audit reports in accordance with IBRD guidelines
for audits of dfcs should continue to be submitted.
3.08      Procurement.  Procurement for the subprojects financed under the
line of credit would be in accordance with the standard practice for dfcs
(para 2.16).
3.09      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan - expected
to be disbursed as shown in Annex 14 - would be used to finance, as in the
past, 100% of the foreign cost of direct imports, 65% of the invoice price
of goods previously imported into Kenya and 40% of the cost of civil works.
E.   Benefits and Risks
3.10      Bank association in the past five years has supported IDB in
establishing itself as a major force in developing and assisting Kenya's
manufacturing sector, and in enhancing IDB's role by strengthening its
appraisal capabilities, resource base and staff and organization. Continued
support of the institution at a time when Kenya's industrial policies are
being refocused and IDB faces a period of consolidation should assist IDB
in further improving internal quality control and supervision of existing
projects. The strategy of selective growth developed for the next several
years (para. 2.33) and the corresponding adjustments to IDB's financing
program, particularly concerning equity investments, should result in a
better selection of projects through a more critical review of the risks
associated with them and by requiring that a larger portion of equity invest-
ment requirements be raised by the sponsors. The line of credit would
finance projects with total cost of about Kshs 1600 million in the period
mid 1980 to end 1982. These projects would create about 5,500 jobs at an
average cost of $38,800 per job and would increasingly support the country's
export orientation objectives.
3.11      There are no particular risks other than those normally associated
with dfc lending in this proposed fourth line of credit. Given IDB's ade-
quate operational record, sound management and the excellent relationship and
fruitful dialogue that governs IDB's relationships with the Bank, even these
normal risks should be minimized.



- 29 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      This report recommends a US$30 million line of credit for the
financing of development projects.
4.02      During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached on
the following:
(i) an understanding that IDB may amend its Statement of Policy
to allow lending for transport, shipping and imported raw
materials as well as the purchase of shares on the Nairobi
Stock Exchange to maximize the use of temporarily idle
resources (para. 2.09);
(ii) IDB's agreement to maintain a Management Committee with
responsibilities to include screening proposals for new
investments and review of problem projects and to
formalize and expand its asset management functions
within its financial management department (para
2.18);
(iii) IDB's agreement to limit total equity investments to
not more than 80% of Class 'A' subscribed shares during
the commitment period of the Bank loan (para 2.24);
(iv)  IDB's agreement to create provisions on its accounts
in accordance with sound commercial and accounting
practice, which by December 31, 1982 will represent not
less than 3% of the value of the portfolio (para 2.25);
and
(v) agreement that IDB's on-lending interest rates in foreign
currency denominated loans will be maintained at not less
than 12% during the commitment period of the loan (para 2.27).



-30-
ANNEX 1
KENYA: INDUSTRIAL SECTOR OUTPUT AND EMPLOYMENT
A. Quantity Index of Manufacturing Production, 1973-77
(1972 = 100)
Industry                        1973     1974      1975      1976     1977
Meat & Dairy  Products            97        96       84        99       99
Canned Vegetables, Fish and
Oils and Fats                  118      127       156       201      248
Grain Mill Products              118      137       131       151      148
Bakery Products                  109      134       126       178      196
Sugar and Confectionery          162      184       184       205      233
Miscellaneous Foods              106      110       106       129      142
TOTAL                      =114 =     121      -119     =123      =151
Beverages                        115      131       138       150      181
Tobacco                          113      133       131       137      145
TOTAL                      =114      =131      =136     =146      =170
Textiles                         136      138       143       141      184
Clothing                          91       84        85       101      150
Leather & Footwear                98      110       184       181      190
Wood & Cork Products             106       117      141       135      153
Furniture & Fixture              102      110        95        93      105
Paper & Paper Products           132        93       88       141      170
Printing & Publishing            107      129       148       156      238
Basic Industrial Chemicals       116      139        89        84       76
Petroleum & Other Chemicals    116        120       117       133      151
Rubber Products                  139      146       103       146      170
Plastic Products                 105      158       244       310      383
Clay & Glass Products             89       95        96        77      170
Non-Metallic Minerals             98      114       114       124      144
Metal Products                   112      120       118       178      207
Non-Electrical Machinery          91      121        65        48       50
Electrical Machinery             118      171       139       159      193
Transport Equipment               80        73      102       111      178
Miscellaneous Manufactures       130      155       107       123      137
TOTAL MANUFACTURING            112      123       121      143       165
B. Employment in Manufacturing, 1973-77
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977
94,453   101,332  100,731  108,776  117,949
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Abstract, 1977 and 1978.
EAPID
February 1980



-31-
ANNEX 2
KENYA
PRINCIPAL INTEREST RATES AS AT DECEINBER 31, 1978
CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA                                                                                               Rt 
1, RediscourtRateforTrsasuryBifle    .        ...6-7978
2. Advances ag!ist Tieesury S'lsm                                               .    .    .     .    .0
3. Bills and Notes Under Crop Finance Scheme
-Discounts        .       ..              ...                               .7-50
-Advances  7. .00o
4. Other Bil:s and Notes
-Discounts        ......7-50
-Advances         .....7-50
5. Advances against Kenya Government Securities           .....7-50
KE14YA COMtMERCIAL BANKS:
2. Deposits
(i) Time (a) Minimum 30 days (7 days' notice)
-Sh. 200.O000up toSh.56W00.0O-                   .     ..                ..               -125
-Sh. 500.000 and over ......5-125
(b)  3 to less than 6 months   .        .....5.125
(c)  6 to less than 9 months    ..  .                                    ..5*375
(d)  9 months and up to and including 12 months                                                        5-625
(*)  i12 mon.ths arnd over minimum Sh. 1 00.000. to Sh. 250,000 maximum                                5-875
(f)  12 months and over minimum Sh. 250.000                             .     .. .Individual Banks
free to determins ra-o
(1i) Savings      ..    .    ..       ......                                                                      5.QQ
2. Lo3nssard Advances (minimum)       ...                                                            .(free)
0TtKE  FlNA'.'C4L INSTITUTIONS:
t. Kenya Post CdIi ce Siavings ~asnk
-Deposits.               .  .  .  ...5.00
2. Agricuiiturai Fii'mnce Corporation
-Loans (AFC)    ..     .     .    .     .     .    .     .9-50
GMRO                                                        .. .  ...  ......10,00
3. Hire Purthase Compsnies
and Merchant Banks   -Capos"as (various periods).                                                           80087
-Loans      .    . .         .    .     . .        . ..       .     .     .    ..10-00-12-00
4. Building Societi.st
-Derosits (venious pefrods)                                      ..                  6-00-8-50
-Loons    ..     .     ;.                                                      . 8-00.-12-00
flnclu.4es Institutilons not registered under the Building Soci.Cte Act, but where primary function isi to finance tile purchase of pnopert.
11sura'ntsed minirmum rgturn.
EAPID
February 1980



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Board of Directors
(as of April 1, 1979)
Chairman:  Mr. R. Kemoli        -   Executive Director, Commonwealth
Development Corporation
Mr. N. Ng'ang'a      -   Vice President's Office and Ministry
of Finance, The Treasury
Mr. B. M. Kabetu    -   Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry
Mr. J. Gatuiria      -   Managing Director, IDB
Mr. S.V.N. Ngwiri   -   Managing Director, Kenya National
Assurance co. Ltd.
Mr. S. Githunguri   -   Executive Chairman, National Bank
of Kenya Limited
Mr. B. E. Kipkoriv  -   Professor of History, University of
Kenya
Mr. A. Wahome        -   Private Kenyan Businessman
EAPID
February 1980



33                   ANNEXX 4
HE~~~~
M      INt   WI
H.-~ ' FM-I g 
41
L N E   1
L))  0)00)X08
0-    X w 
l!1f1|i    :'v   A
N~~_
410



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
STATEMENT OF POLICY AND REGULATIONS
1.   The Industrial Development Bank Limited is a financial institution
created by the Government of Kenya for the purpose of furthering the
economic development of Kenya by assisting in the promotion, establishing,
expansion and modernization of medium and large scale industrial enter-
prises, including mining, agro-industries, engineering, tourism, transport,
shipping 1/ and such other enterprises as the Board may approve. In
pursuance of this objective it shall be the purpose of the Bank to
achieve and maintain a satisfactory and acceptable return on the share-
holders' capital compatible with the maintenance of a sound financial
position. The IDB will not assist enterprises in the purely commercial,
real estate and purely farming activities.
2.   The IDB will promote the industrial development of Kenya through one, or
a combination of the several of the following methods:
(a) Provision of medium, long-term and imported raw material
loan finance;
(b) Direct equity investments;
(c) Provision of guarantees for loans from other sources; and
(d) Underwriting security issues, shares stocks and similar
obligations.
3.   The IDB shall also undertake management of loans as agent of and for
account of Government or any other reputable institution on terms and
conditions to be agreed between the Government or such other institution
and IDB, which shall include a management fee sufficient to cover IDB's
costs in connection with such management and, in addition, to yield a
satisfactory return to IDB.
4.   The IDB will normally finance or otherwise assist enterprises where
new productive assets are to be created and will normally not engage
in refinancing operations or transfer of existing assets.
5.   The IDB operations shall be guided by sound banking principles.  The
Bank's investments decisions shall be based on sound appraisal methods,
and will particularly take into account the total financial requirements
of the project and the soundness of the resulting financial structure for
the enterprise.
1/   Underlined clauses represent additions agreed to during negotiations,
but not yet formally revised by IDB.



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.   The Bank shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects, and those which have or will have com-
peten.t Management.
7.   The Bank shall not normally invest in any project in which the total
capital cost including permanent working capital is less than
Kshs 1,000,000 and will not invest an amount of less than Kshs 400,000
in any project.
8.   The Bank shall not normally finance or otherwise commit itself in any
enterprise to the extent of more than 50% of the project's capital
costs including permanent working capital. Special consideration will
however be given to the financial requirements of expansion programme
of existing industries and medium sized Kenyan enterprise.
9.   The Bank will not seek to acquire a controlling interest in its equity
investments, and shall not acquire an interest of more than 49% in the
share capital of any one enterprise. The IDB will not in normal cir-
cumstances manage enterprises, although it will use its best endeavor
to ensure the acquisition of competent management. It will, however,
notwithstanding these limitations, take such action as it considers
appropriate where, in case a project supported by it is in jeopardy,
it has to protect its investment.
10. The Bank's equity investment in any one enterprise shall not exceed
10% of its unimpaired subscribed capital stock, surplus and reserve
at the time of the investment decision.
11. The aggregate amount of the Bank's loan, equity holdings or guarantees
to any one enterprise shall not exceed 20% of the Bank's unimpaired
subscribed stock, and reserve at the time of the investment decision.
12. The Bank's aggregate investments in share capital shall not be allowed
to exceed the Bank's own unimpaired subscribed share capital, surplus
and reserves.
13. The Bank's total debts including guarantees shall not at any time,
exceed four times the amount of its unimpaired subscribed share capital
plus surplus and reserves.
14. The Bank shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.
15. The Bank shall seek to diversify its investments both geographically
and by industrial sectors.
16. The Bank shall give special consideration to enterprises utilizing
considerable local material and labor resources, and to export oriented
projects.



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
17. The Bank shall as part of its portfolio management, in order to
maximize the use of its temporarily idle resources, purchase or
acquire shares of profitable companies and revolve its funds by
selling equity investments.
18. The Bank shall charge, for its funds or services, interest rates fees,
or commissions which are compatible with the prevailing market rates
and/or which enable it to earn a reasonable return on its operations.
19. The Bank shall take such security for its loans and guarantees as the
Bank's Board of Directors shall, for each investment, determine ade-
quate and reasonable.
20. The Board of Directors shall conduct the business of the Bank in
accordance with the Companies Act, and shall observe the exchange
control regulations.
21. The Bank shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations.
22. The Bank shall supervise its investments to protect its interest
and to enable it to assist its projects to the maximum extent
possible.
23. The Board of Directors of the Bank shall lay such rules and regulations
as it seems fit to govern the day to day operations of the Bank.
EAPID
February 1980



K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD. (IDB)
Actual and Prolected Operations 1973-1983 (Ksh million)
A  c  t  u  a  1                            P  r  o j   e  c  t  e  d
1973  1974       1975       1976       1977      1978       1979 (est)1960        19B1       1982     1983
Approvals
Foreign Loans             13.70  31.53      37.81    51.34      63.48      97.o8    109.89   123.55    142.08    170.50   204.59
Local Loans (excl.
medium scale)             -      -       10.19       5.80      18.2 4     6.40        2.70=-  13.73       15.79      18.94    22.73
Medium Scale (MSE) Local -         -          -         -          -         3.70       8.50    13.20       14.52      16.70    19.20
Loans
Total Loans            13.70  31.53    48.oo        57.14      81.72    107.18     121.09   150.48    172.39    206.14   246.52
Equity Investments         2.38  15.97      5.75     23.37       24.10     37.91       13.41    10.00       10.00      10.00    10.00
Total Approvals /         16.08  47.50    53.75       80. 51    105.82    145.09    134.50   160.48    162.39    216.14   256.52
Commitments
Foreign Loans               -   26.86      49.74      34.44      77.40     66.88       99.28   103.20    132.82    156.29   187.54
Local Loans                 -      -       10.19       5.80      18 .2 4   10 1 0       6.20    18.47       28.62      32.97    38.79   w-}
Equity Investments          -    8.96      11.20      14.16      31.50     32.84       15.61      7.86      10.00      10.00    10.00
Total Commitments           -   35.82      71.13      54.40    127 .14     l0o  82    121.09   129.53    171.44    199.26   236.33
Disbursements
Foreign Loans               -    8.oo      22.18      55.45      33.68     37.55       92.90   129.64    119.32    140.48   166.44
Local Loans                 -      -         -         5.88      17.82      8.46        5.13    15.27       25.36      30.04    34.87
Equity Investments          -    4.39       9.43      14.42      27.58     27.97        9.20    14.41       10.90      10.00    10.00
Total Disbursements         -   12.39      31.61      75.75      79.08     73.98      107.23   159.32   155.58    180.52   211.31
1/ Net of cancellations
T/ There were constraints on IDB local currency resources available for commitment during much of 1979.
EAPID
F'ebruary 1980



K E N Y A
INDUSTtIAL DEVEI.OPFE8T  A8NK LTD.  (IDd)
A..Iytys of Total Approv-l-  (Logr  Plu-    Erutiv)
No. *eet  Aeproond   oforef  19P7  ____________       ProJect. Approved D-ring 1977-1978               P-o-t  Appr        td  ice Inceoti n(l973-781
N.. of        mout-lreeta                           No. of         A-out           P-Orutage           No. of       Aiout            Per...ntage           A-er.ft  Si... of:                   IDBI. finaneig
Pro-_ec       Appovd           of tP et                            Approved       of Co-1l              Praj-ere     Approved         of tcl                1D'. Total ProJctt                   a. o   f tIot-
Approved      LK.h  ill.)    amon         r         Appr.ed        (Kfh mill.)   aont_pprooed    Approved             (Kah t ill.)    *eounL  *Paod    Flonninit             Co*t -               pro-iet eo.t
1.loIr .,l tIDe' Fucdtcps
llp to Krh 4 million                         8              13.2              6.7                19              38.1              15.2              15           31.8                7.1                2.1           4.3                     48.8
fi 4. milie,:   Raft 8 mutton               12              64.9             33.0                17              91.1              36.3              23          128.1              28.6                 5.6          58.0                      9.7
foil 8                Llitoc - fai  12  I.llloo  10         88.0             44.7                 0               0                 0                 8           75.2              16.8                 9.4         120.5                       7.8
I,-, Koh 12 oilti-oi                         2              30.6             15.6                 8             121.?              48.5              14          212.5              47.5                15.2         130.1                     11.7
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                      10.8
2. Sj-_ ot loLa-   Prolecn2ost
lip to foi  If aliot n                        7              9.4              4.8                 21             76.5              30.5              18           49.7               11.1                2.8           4.5                     62.2
Kal. ID million - 40 mtllito                 15             90.4             46.0                 13             92.2              36.7              24          191.3              42.7                 8.0          22.6                      35.4
foh 40 million .  100 oillol-                6              55.1             28.0                  3             34.8              13.9              tO          112.4               25.1               11.2          54.7                      20.5
Ov-L Kfh 100  tillitn                        4              41.8             21.2                  5             47.4              18.9               8           94.2               21.1               11.8         376.9                       3.1
32            196.7            100.0                 44            250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                      10.8
iNo                                         21             130.4             66.3                20             134.1              53.4              37          264.5              59.1                 7.1          97.1                      7.3
fopat.lov/godrrplneM iot                    11              66.3             33.7                24             116.8              46.6              23          183.1              60.9                 8.0          25.7                     31.1
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                     10.8
4. KRcvao 0Y-herailp
h ioritf                                    23             138.3             70.3                33             157.7              62.9              44          296.0              66.1                 6.7          71.5                       9.4
Hitority                                     9              58.4             29.7                11              93.2              37.1              16          151.6               33.9                9.5          64.8                     14.7
32            196.7            100,0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0.                7.5          69.7                      10.8
5. L...toai
NWt-obi or M.dom..                          13              64.6             32.8                17            1II.9               46.2              27          180.5              40.3                 6.7          21.3                      31.5
Other                                       19             132.1             67.2                27             135.0              53.8              33          267.1               59.7                8.1         109.4                       7.4
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6               100.0               7.5          69.7                      10.8
6. fat,, Ocleoratfon:  Einp-r, or
Impoer Suilotitutiot
Eiport (-nd t-ori..i                         7              38.3             19.5                 6              45.6              18.2              11           83.9              18.7                 7.6          53.3                     14.3
tepori CohbgtitOfio,l                       25             158.4             80.5                38            205.3              81.8              49           363.7              81.3                 7.4          73.5                     10.1
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                      10.8
7. Pluabn.lal .     ef  of Re-ur-  (IFRR)
Ailoce 257                                  12              79.0             40.2                19              94.2              37.6              24          173.2               38.7                7.2          24.2                     29.8
llp to 2SX                                  18             170.7             56.3                23            130.3               51.9              32          241.0              53.8                 7.5         002.5                      7.3
Not -avilaill                                2               7.0              3.5                 2              26.4              10.5               4           33.4               7.5                 8.4          81.4                     10.3
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                      10.8
8. Econom.i.   lar of Rt orn (EIRR)
Above 15.                                   14              79.7             40.5                25             124.1              49.5              32          203.8              45.5                 6.4          57.7                      11.1
Up Lo 151                                    9              71.1             36.2                11              76.0              30.3              16          147.1              32.9                 9.2         115.5                      8.0
Not Avallable                                9              45.9             23.3                 8              50.8              20.2              12           96.7              21.6                8.1           40.9                     19.8
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9             100.0              60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                      10.8
9.  ocomlcSector
Tnatlfl-                                     6              46.3             23.5                 3              19.9              7.9               9            66.2              14.8                7.4          103.9                       7.1
Chioilcala. fouler. tr,  l. ca               4              25.4             12.9                 5             40.7             16.2                 8           66.1              14.8                8.3           51.5                     16.1
E.oi_eering, 8htal and Machtnery             7              31.3             15.9                10              77.0            30.7               14           108.3              24.2                7.7           17.8                     43.3
lod.  ne..ra.es                              6              40.6             20.7                14             62.2             24.8               14           102.8              23.0                7.3          142.2                      5.1
lilrlp  aid Corda-ea                         3              28.5             14.5                 6             20.5              8.2                 5           49.0              10.9                9.8           14.9                     65.8
ap-r and Prloting                            2              13.6              6.9                 3             10.9              4.3                4            24.5               5.5                6.1           97.1                      6.3
loorino                                      3               9.9              5.0                 0              0                0                   3            9.9               2.2                3.3           33.3                      9.9
Wood .od  lay prodo-a                        I               1.1              0.6                 3              19.7              7.9                3           20.8               4.6                6.9           11.8                     58.5
32            196.7            100.0                44             250.9            100.0               60          447.6             100.0                 7.5          69.7                     10.8
i/  For trOra1 nopacolo  Pco)eciu  elro total pro -ect coat daa L. not-  -ilable, tot-l  -lpt 1. t.pacoatlvely ...            utmed equal to th. ID8 financiig.
EAPID
February 1980



K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMXJT BANK (IDB)
(Kshs million)                           Actual and Projected Income Statements (1973-1985)
Actual (Audited)                                   Projected
1974     1275      1976     1277 1              12.(est)1980       1981      1982      1983
Income
Interest on Loans                 .16     1.96      6.17    11.80    15.96    23.70    33.66    47.81    60.50    72.83
Commitment and
Appraisal Fees                  .o6       .86     1.04      1.74     2.78      2.25      2.63      3.30      3.92     4.68
Dividend Income                   _         .31      .59      1.54     2.64      2.06      3.50     4.27      6.20      8.86
Income from Short-term
Deposits                     1.13      1.80      2.07     1.53       .84      0.75     4.55      5.60      5.43      3.85
Managed Funds Fees and Misc.    -           .0       .23       .25     1.04      0.80      1.43      1.76     2.14      2.37
Total Income                 1.35      5.02    10.10    16.86    23.26        29.56   45.77    62.74    78.19    92.59        L
Expenses
Charges on Borrowings
Interest                        .16     1.76      4.31     7.96    12.28       16.63   25.67    33.40    39.54    47.76
Other Fees                      .01      .22       .61     1.25      1.72       1.75    1.98      2.06      1.78      2.34
Administrative Expense           1.44     2.57      3.43      5.86     8.73      10.00   11.21    12.11    13.18    14.36
Depreciation                      .05       .09      .16       .36       .56      .76       .80       .84       .88      .96
Provisions for Possible
Loss on Investments             -                  .22      3.75     2.41      9.80      3.06     3.46      3.91      4.54
Total Expenses                 1.66     4.64      8.73    19.18    25.70    38.94    42.72    51.87    59.29    69.96
Profit (Loss) before Tax           (.31)      .38     1.37    (2.32)   (2.44)   (9.38)    3.05    10.87    18.90    22.63
Income Tax                          -        -         .64       .42      _        0.19      2.75      6.45    10.26    12.23
Profit (Loss) after Tax            (.31)      .38      .73    (2.74)   (2.44)   (9.57)    0.30         4.42     8.64    10.40
EAPID- February 1980



K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
(Kshs million)                       Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1974-1985)
Actual (Audited)                               Projected
1974     1975     1976      1977              1979 (est)1980     1981      ;482     1983
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and Misc.               1.24      4.84    11.52    15.30    23.56      5.14    23.60    24.98    30.09    35.62
Short-Term Deposits         23.75    30.15    26.98    10.95    19.55    59.98    70.00    90.00    65.00    45.00
Loans - current portion       -            .92  7-79    10.30    13.16    36.75    46.72    63.85    86.23   107.13
Total Current Assets           24.99    35.91    46.29    36.55    56.27   101.87   140.32   178.83   181.32   187.75
Portfolio (long-term)
Foreign Loans                     8.oo    29.07    78.13   103.51   129.48    200.20  289.54   352.45   419.30   494.25
Local Loans                        -        -       4.48    20.54    27.26      17.82   26.67    44.59    62.03    81.26
Equity Investments                4.39    13.82    28.24    52.07    78.35      87.54  101.96   112.86   122.86   132.86
Less Accumulated Provisions        -        -        -         -        -      (9.80)  (12.86)  (16.32)  (20.23)  (24.77)
Net Portfolio                 12.39    42.89   110.85   176.12   235.09   295.76   405.31   493.58   583.96   683.60
Net Fixed Assets + Other         .45      .53      .71     2.21      3.47     3.83      4.15     3.55     3.29      3.29
Total Assets                   37.83    79.33   157.85   214.88   294.83   401.46   549.78   675.96   768.57   874.64
Managed Funds administered on                                                                                               o
behalf of the Kenya Government   -         5.17     5.69      5.88     6.29     6.29    11.29    16.29    21.29    26.29 r
EAPID
February 1980



- 41 -                                       Annex 9
K E N Y A                                       Page 2 of 2
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOWMENT BANK (IDB)
(Kshs million)                             Actual and ProAected Balance Sheets (1974-1985)
A  c  t  u  a  1                           P        r  o  e  c  t  e  d
1974     1975      1297      1977     1978      127(est)19O0    1981         1982      1983
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Payables + Accruals              .26      1.60     4.11      6.57    10.22      2.49      9.81    11.81    13.60    15.99
Current portion -
Long-term Debt                 -         .92     6.33    11.91    13.37    24.29    34.91    58.30    73.16    89.63
Total Current Liabilities         .26      2.52    1o.44    18.48    23.59    26.78    44.72    70.11    86.76   105.62
Long-term Debt
Foreign Borrowings              8.00    28.86    78.28   106.27   138.56   209.83   307.22   372.70   445.03   527.59
Local Borrowings                _         _                  6.69    15,08    20.42    17.76    13.30        8.29      2.54
Total Long-term Debt             8.00    28.86    78.28   112.96   153.64   230.25   324.98   386.00   453.32   530.13
Equity
1/
Class A shares                 30.00    46.70    63.55    80-00   106.60   129.30   164.65   200.00   200.00   200.00
Class B shares                   -       1.30      4.90      5.50    15.50    29.20    29.20    29.20    29.20    29.20
Accumulated Reserves
(Losses)                   (.43)    (.05)       .68    (2.06)   (4.50)  (14.07)  (13.77)   (9.35    (0.71)    9.69
Total Equity                   29.57    47.95    69.13    83.44   117.60   144.43   180.08   219.85   228.49   238.89
Total Liabilities and Equity    37.83    79.33   157.85   214.88   294.83   401.46   549.78   675.96   768.57   874.64
Liability to Kenya Government
for Funds Managed on its behalf   -          5.17      5.69     5.88      6.29      6.29    1l.Z9    16.29    21.29    26.29
I/ Including Kshs 12.5 million paid in as capital but temporarily on the books as a short term non interest
bearing loan pending completion of legal formalities.
EAPID
February 1980



K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVEL0PMENT BANK (IDB)
(Kshs million)                    Actual and Projected Sources and Uses of Funds Statement (1974-1985)
A  c  t  u  a  1                             r           e   ted
1974     1975     1976     1977      1978     1979 (est)1980     1981      1982     1983
Sources
Net Profit                      (.31)     .38       .73    (2.74)   (2.44)   (9.57)      0.30      4.42     8.64    10.40
Depreciation and Provisions      .05      .30       .17     4.12     2.97    10.56       3.86     4.30      4.79     5.50
Funds from Operations           (.26)     .68       .90     1.38      .53      0.99      4.16      8.72    13.43    15.90
Drawdowns of:
Share Capital               12.55    18.00    20.45    17.05    36.60    36.40        35.35    35.35       -        -
Local Borrowings               -        -        -        8.95    11.05      8.00       -        -                  - -
Foreign Borrowings            8.oo    21.78    55.75    37.64    43.00    92.90    129.64   119.32   140.48   166.44
Reduction in long-term
local currency loans            -        -       1.40      2.00     2.30    14.57       6.42     7.44    12.60    15.64
Reduction in long-term
foreign currency loans         -         .92     6.39     8.30    10.86    22.18       40.30    56.41    73.63    91.49
Total Sources                 20.29    41.38    84.89    75.32   104.34   175.04    215.87   227.24   240.14   289.47
Uses
Foreign currency disburs.       8.oo    22.18    55.45    33.68    37.55    92.90    129.64   119.32   140.48   166.44
Local currency disburs.          -        -       5.88    18.06      9.02      5.13     15.27    25.36    30.04    34.87
Equity Investments              4.39     9.43    14.42    27.58    27.97      9.20      14.41    10.90    10.00    10.00
Reductions in long-term
local debt                     -        -        -        2.26     2.66     2.66      2.66      4.46      5.01     5.75
Reductions in long-term
foreign debt                  -         .92     6.33     9.65    10.71    21.63    32.25    53.84    68.15    83.88
Purchase of Fixed Assets         .33      .19      .35      1.87     1.83     1.12      1.12      .24       .62      .96
Total Uses                    12.72    32.72    82.43    93.10    89.74   132.64   195.35   214.12   254.30   301.90
Increase (Decrease) in
Working Capital               7.57      8.66     2.46   (17.78)   14.60    42.40    20.52    13.12   (14.16)  (12.43) o
EAPID
February 1980



K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Actual and Projected Financial Ratbis (1974-1983)
A  c  t  u  a  1                         _       P  r  o        e  c  t  e  d 
1974                 1976       1977      1978       1979(est) 1980        1981       1982       19B3
A. Income Statement Items
as a Percentage of Average
Total Assets
Gross Income                 4.9       8.6        8.5        9.0       9.1         8.5       9.6        10.2      10.8        11.3
Financial Expense             .6       3.4        4.1        4.9       5.5         5.3       5.8         5.8       5.7         6.1
Administrative Expense*   5.4          4.5        3.0        3.3       3.6         3.1       2.5         2.1       1.9         1.9
Operating Profit           (1.1)        .6        1.3         .8        -          0.1       1.3         2.3       3.2         3.3
Provisions for
Possible Losses            -          -          .2       2.0         .9         2.8       0.6        0.6        0.6        0.5
Taxes                         -         -          .5         .2        -          0.1       0.6         1.1       1.4         1.5
Net Profit                  (1.1)       .6         .6       (1.5)     (l.Q)       (2.7)      0.1         0.6       1.2         1.3
B. Selected Income and
Cost Items                                                                                                                             4
Dividend Income as % of
Average Equity Portfolio    -          3.4        2.8        3.8       4.o         2.5       3.7         4.0       5.3         6.9
Income from Loans as % of
Average Loan Portfolio       5.5      14.8       12.0       12.0      12.3        12.2      11.8        12.4      12.5        12.4
Cost of Debt as % of
Average Long-term Debt       4.3      10.5        8.6        8.8       9.6         8.7       9.0         8.8       8.5         8.7
Spread                      1.2        4.3        3.4        3.2       2.7         3.5       2.8         3.6       4.0         3.7
C. Profitability
Net Profit as % of
Average Net Worth         (1.3)       1.0        1.2       (3.6)     (2.4)       (7.3)      0.2         2.2       3.9         4.5
Net Profit as % of
Average Total Assets      (1.1)        .6         .6       (1.5)     (1.0)       (2.7)      0.1         0.6       1.2         1.3
D. Structural Ratios
Long-term debt/equity         .3        .6        1.S       1.5        1.4         1.8       2.0         2.0       2.3         2.6
Provisions as % of Gross
loan + Equity Portfolio    -           -          -          -          -         3.2       3.1         3.2       3.3         3.5
Debt Service Coverage
(times)              .8       1.4        1.1        1.1        .9         0.8       1.1         1.1       1.0         1.1
Current Ratio              96.1       14.3        4.4       2.0        2.4         3.8       3.1         2.5       2.1         1.8
*(incl. dep.)             EAPID -February 1980



- '44 -
ANNEX 12
K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Resources Position
(Ksh million)
December 31, 1978
Foreign      Local
Exchange     Currency
Resources
Cash from Operations                          -           (4.50)
Share Capital                                            122.10
Local Borrowings                                          20.00
Foreign Borrowings
- IBERD Loans I, IT and III                 259.13
- DEG Loans I and II                         40.85
- ADB I and EIB I                            71.08
- ECDG I and II                             45.18*
Total Resources Available                    416.24       137.60
Uses
Disbursements
- Loans                                    156.86         32.16
- Equity Investments                                      83.79
- Net Fixed Assets                                         1.73
Total Uses                                  156.86        117.68
Resources Available for Disbursement          259.38*       19.92
Undisbursed Commitments
Loans                                       97.81         12.17
Equity                                                     7.10
Uncommitted Resource Surplus (Gap)            161.57*          .65
*Including Kshs 23.74 million in the ECDG II line
which may be cancelled.
EAPID
February 1980



K EN YA
INDUSTRTAL DEVELOPMKENT BjANK(IB)
List of Protect Possibilities as of March 31. 1979
Local or                       Expected IDN Participation           Total        Probability
sectorf                                  Ne. or                           7. Kenyan         Export                             tKshs million)                   Project         pf
l'roiect Nane                Ac~~E~11tivt             Location         Expansion       Ownership        raw material       Market    Employment         Loan        Equity       Total       Cost         ApproEval 
Kig-njo Wheat  fillrs lt,d.  (A)   Wheat floor                  Nyeri            New             All Kenyan          1007.            Local          34            7.5                      7.5          15.0       High
Afir-P..kaging a-d   isigC.O.    Aluvminum process.    Nairobi                   New'            All Kenyan            40            Local           33           4.8-                      4.8           9.0       Medium
l)unlnp Kenya Ltd.                     Pvc tiles               Nairobi           Expansion       Majority Kenyan    60               Local           50           6.6             .         6.8          14.0       Medium
Chip Board Project                     Chip board              Nyeri             New*            M4ajority Kenyan    90              Local         165           12.0           4.0        16.0          60.0       High
Associated Steel Ltd.                  Kitchen sinks            Nairobi          New             Majority Kenyan    40                Local         102            3.0            -         3.0          58.0       Medium
East Mt. Kenya BoLtlets.Ltd.(A)   Soft drinks                  Machakos          New*            Majority Kenyan      so             Local1          55          12.0             -        12.0          23.0       Medium
Nalin Nail Works. Ltd.                 Metal bolta & nuts   Ruiru                New             All Kenyan            50            Local           70           8.0             -         8.0          16.0       Medium
Iiipo Ma..ufacturers                   Shoe polish              Thika            New*            All Kenyan           40             Local           54            3.2**          .4        3.6           5.4       Medium
lios,bl. Diamond Taoneries   (A)       Tannery                 Athi River        New*            Majority Kenyan    81             1007. Export    46             2.5             -         2.5           6.0       High
Ceramic Products                       Ceramicst                Voir             New*            All Kenyan            85           207. Export   200             8.0           2.0        10.0          19.8       High
Automotlve  Niters  (A)                Auto part                Nairobi          New*            Majority foreign   95              107. Export    47              5.0            -         5.0          10.0       Nigh
Nairobi Oil Products                   Recycled motor oil   Nairobi              Expansion*    All Kenyan            100            307. Export    63            17.0             -        17.0          17.0       High
Nithi Timber Coop. Union               saw mill                Mt. Kenya         New             All Kenyan           90             Local         250             5.8            -         5.8          24.4       Medium
Tigitlli Saws,illets. Ltd.             saw mill                Mt. Kenya         Expansion       All Kenyan            90            Local           63            2.0**          -         2.0           2.5       Medium
Agrttools Ltd.                         Metal Agricu1-           Nairobi          New             All Kenyan            60            Local          100          10.0             -        10.0          21.0       Medium
tural tools
Chalange Indust  es Ltd.               Textiles                 Nairobi          Expansion       All Ktenyan          80           407. Export       40           5.0**           -         5.0           8.0       Medium
Teot Pro ject(A                        Textiles                 Nairobi          New             All Kenyan            90             Local          70            7.5                      7.5          10.0       High
Kenya Rayon Mills                       Textiles               Mombabka          Expansion       Majority Kenyan    60             307. Export       40            4.0-                     4.0           8.0       low
Sera Coating Ltd.                      Pvc Textiles            Nairobi           Expansion       Majority Kenyan       s0            Local           40          10.0-                     10.0          20.0       L.OW
East Mt. Kenya Bakery                  Bakery                  Meru              New*            All Kenyan          100             loCal          170            5.3**-                   5.3           7.5       High
Nepal Plastics                          Plastic bags            Nairobi          New*            All Kenyan             0          407. export       42            2.45*                    2.4           4.0       L.OW4
& sheets
Dunlop Tires & T,obes                  Tires                   Mombasa           New*            Majority foteign    0                  0           250          18.0           6.0        24.0         148.0       High
Kenya Tent Ltd.                        Canvas Products          Ruarka           Expansion*    All Kenyan              80          107. export       30            7.5            -         7.5          10.0        High
Nicho-las Crater Quasrry               Quarry                   Nyeri            New             All Kenyan           t00             Local1         40            2.0*5          -         2.0           4.0       Medium
terse Brothers ln-estments             Plastic foam             Eldoret          New             All Kenyan            40             Local          50           4.*             -         4.0           8.3       Mediumi
Mabobo Quarry                          Quarry                   Machakos         New*            All Kenyan           100             Local          50            3.0**          -         3.0           4.2       Nigh
Kakamega iogsr                         Sugar                    Ktaksmega        New*            Majority Kenyan   100                Local         195          19.0            5.0       24.0          50.0        Medium,
Seed Oil from  Sonfloc,ers             Vegetable Oil           Kitale            New*            All Kenyan           100            Local           60            2.2**          -         2.2           3.0        LOW
Ke,coal Ltd.                          Charcoal                 Nakuru           New*            All Kenya.           100             Local          25            2.4**          -         2.4           3.2       Medium
Naku,ro Bottling Co. Ltd.              Soft drinks              Nakrur           New*            All Kenyan            75            Local          200           9.0             -         9.0          18.0        High
Coat Project                           Machine gears            Thiks            New*            Majority Kenyan       30             Local         100           12.0           3.0       15.0          30.0        mledium
Cardboard Manufacturers Ltd.           Cardboard boxes          Nairobi          New             All Kenyan           100             Local          30            2.4**          -         2.4           3.4        High
'lhe Coroer Shop. Ltd.                 Canning vegetables   Wdebuye              Expansion      All Kenyan           100           1007. export     50            2.0             -         2.0           5.0       Nigh
Kenya Spinning Industries              Blanket yarn            Athi River        New             Majority Kenyan   100                Local         150           13.4            -        13.4          52.6       Meduium
comcr5ft  Services Ltd.                Aluminium rolling    Momb5aa              Expansion       majority foreign   40             207. export    400            24.0             -        24.0         200.0       Medium
Rrobu International Ag-enes           Plastic farm             Nairobi          New             Majority Kenyon    40                Local         40             3.0            -         3.0           6.0       Medium
sprayers
Abangoma Trading Co.                   Corrugated              Mombasa           Hew             All Kenyan          100              Local          30            2.0**          -         2.0           4.0        LoW
cardboard
Hossein Haji                           Meat processing         Nairobi           New             All Kenyan           100            Local           30            1.5            -         1.5           3.0       Low
Albert Njeru Giithe                    TV Assembly             N4airobi          New             Majority Kenyan    30                Local          60            5.0            -         5.0          10.0        LOW
Rubber Reclamation Project             Rubber recycling         Nairobi          New*            All Kenyan          100             Local         100            7.0             -         7.0          10.0       Medium
medium Neavy Engineering Proj.         Machinery                Acth  giver      New*            Majority Kenyan        0             Local          61           18.0           6.0       24.0         140.0       Medium
Eq.ator Sugar Mills                    Sugar                   Rongo             New*            Majority Kenyan   100               Local         195           18.0           6.0        24.0          50.0       Low
T'otal Pipeline                                                                                                                                                 317.0          32.6       349.6      1,121.3
(A) Approved during 1979
*Being promoted by IDB 
**Probably under Med*um scale lending program (total Kshs 37.4 million)
EAPID
February 1980



- 46 -                       ANNEX 14
K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year                              Cumulative Disbursements at
and Quarter                                   end of Quarter  ($ '000)
1981
March 31, 1981                                        1,300
June 30, 1981                                         1,700
1982
September 30, 1981                                   2,100
December 31, 1981                                     3,600
March 31, 1982                                        6,200
June 30, 1982                                         7,400
1983
September 30, 1982                                    8,500
December 31, 1982                                    11,200
March 31, 1983                                       15,300
June 30, 1983                                       17,200
1984
September 30, 1983                                  19,100
December 31, 1983                                   21,500
March 31, 1984                                       24,700
June 30, 1984                                       26,200
1985
September 30, 1984                                  27,600
December 31, 1984                                   28,500
March 31, 1985                                       29,300
June 30, 1985                                       29,600
1986
September 30, 1985                                  29,800
December 31, 1985                                   30,000
EAPID
February 1980



- 47 -
ANNEX 15
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project   1
A.   General Reports and Studies in the Sector
A.1    List of commercial banks and non-Bank financial institutions in Kenya
A.2    Development Plan 1979-83.  Manufacturing Sector - Manufacturing
Sector Working Group - September 19, 1978
A.3    Sources and Methods used for the National Accounts of Kenya -
Central Bureau of Statistics - Ministry of Finance and Planning
A.4    Economic Survey 1978 Central Bureau of Statistics
A.5    Kenya Statistical Digest - September 1978 - Central Bureau of
Statistics
A.6    DFCK Annual Report and Accounts 1977
A.7    ICDC Annual Report and Accounts 1977-78
A.8    KIE  Annual Report and Accounts 1977-78
A.9    KTDC Annual Report and Accounts 1977
A.10   EADB Annual Report and Accounts 1977
A.11   Monthly Statistical Digest - February 1979
A.12   An Analysis of ICDC Small Industrial Loan Commitments 1961-75
R. Kaplinsky - Institute for Development Studies University of
Nairobi - February 1976
A.13   Policy Statement by the Minister for Commerce and Industry on
Textile Industry in Kenya
B.     General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1    IDB - Promotion of Export Oriented Projects
B.2    IDB - Rescheduling Practices
B.3    IDB - Loan Portfolio Analysis
B.4    IDB - Review of Statutory Boards - Memorandum on Financial,
Administrative and Operational Procedures of the IDB
B.5    IDB - The Fourth IDB Loan Application to the IBRD
B.6    IDB - Project Rehabilitation
B.7    IDB - Application Guidelines
B.8    IDB - Kenya Medium Sized Enterprises Finance Scheme
(Board Paper 1978/79)
C.     Selected Working Papers
C.1    IDB - Assumptions for Projected Operations and Projected
Financial Statements for 1979-83
C.2    Economic Impact of IDB Projects per Appraisal in 1974-78
C.3    Analysis of IDB's Appraisals up to December 31, 1976
C.4    List of IDB's 1977/78 Approvals
EAPID
February 1980



