LOAN NUMBER 1817 KE
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Dated ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1817 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             / i             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED (herein-
after called the Borrower), a company limited by shares estab-
lished and operating under the Companies Act (Cap. 486) of
the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreeiment, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Kenya shillings" and "KSh" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Charter" means the Memorandum and Articles of Asso-
ciation of the Borrower dated January 9, 1973, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on February 15, 1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(i) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the
date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided
for therein.
(j) "Agreement for Subscription for Shares" means the
agreement dated December 31, 1979, between the Borrower, the
Guarantor, Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation,
Kenya National Assurance Company Limited, National Bank of Kenya
Limited and Kenya Reinsurance Corporation, as such agreement
supplements or amends the Capital Reconstruction Agreement dated
January 12, 1976, and the Agreement for Subscription for Class A
Ordinary Shares in the Capital of the Borrower, dated December 8,
1977.
(k) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-3-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of with-
drawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan or
investment to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,
that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or
investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit
sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account.
For the purposes of this sub-section, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be
authorized by the Bank in respect of expenditures under a sub-loan
or investment:
(i) in a foreign currency for the c.i.f. cost of goods
procured, or for services supplied from, outside
the territory of the Guarantor;
(ii) in Kenya shillings on account of not more than
sixty-five per cent (65%) of the invoiced price
for goods previously imported into the territory
of the Guarantor through normal trade channels;
and
(iii) in Kenya shillings on account of not more than
forty per cent (40%) of the contract price under
civil works and/or construction contracts to be
carried out in Kenya;
(said percentages in each case representing the estimated foreign
expenditure component).
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $800,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or


﻿-4-
of any Prior Loan for such Investment Project, or (ii) $7,000,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made before the date of this Agreement or of expenditures made
by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to
the Bank's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such
expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such sub-loan or investment the application and information
required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a
free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b)
of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the invest-
ment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1982.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregz ,e
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and he
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on March 15 and September 15 in each
year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval
by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof; and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan
or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
the territory of the Guarantor as will contribute to the economic
and social development of the country. The project consists in the
financing of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in enterprises in the territory of the Guarantor, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial stan-
dards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and
in accordance with the Charter and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to maintain in
existence a Management Committee whose responsibilities shall
include inter alia screening proposals for the Borrower's loans
and equity investments and reviewing the status of projects for
which the Borrower has made loans or has equity investments.
(b) The Borrower shall finalize the process it has begun
to formalize and expand its asset management functions within
its finance management department.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appro-
priate technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them,
and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that (1) the Invest-
ment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice and (2)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the


﻿-8-
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or
its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of any such agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not make any change in
the Statement of Policy which would materially affect the objec-
tives, operations or financial condition of the Borrower without
the prior approval of the Bank, it being understood that the
Bank's position in this respect shall be communicated to the
Borrower within a reasonable time.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to create provi-
sions in its accounts in accordance with sound commercial and
accounting practices to cover future losses in respect to equity
and loan investments.
(b) Until December 31, 1982, or such other date as the Bank
and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to:


﻿-9-
(i) limit its total equity investments to not more than 80% of its
subscribed share capital consisting of Class A shares to which
full voting rights are attached; and (ii) maintain its on-lending
interest rate for foreign currency denominated loans at not less
than 12% per annum.
Section 3.08. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all measures within its
power not to terminate, or permit the termination of, the Finance
and Investment Agreement between the Guarantor and the Borrower
dated July 29, 1977, regarding the terms on which it will manage
loans and manage or undertake equity investments on behalf of the
Guarantor and shall not amend, nor permit the amendment of, said
Agreement without the Bank's consent. The Finance and Investment
Agreement shall continue to adequately protect the Borrower from
financial risks in connection with such investments and shall
provide for reasonable returns, or in the case of equity invest-
ments reasonable prospects of such returns, to the Borrower.
Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall duly and punctually perform its obligations
under the Agreement for Subscription for Shares and shall take
all such measures within its power to ensure that said Agreement
for Subcription for Shares or any provision thereof shall not be
amended in a manner which will affect materially and adversely the
financial condition or operations of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, together with any relevant document relating thereto.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to Lh'n Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as
security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision.will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its


﻿- 11 -
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06
hereof; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
fr.r times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Kenya shillings debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any


﻿- 12 -
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary;
in the event that the Borrower shall create any new class of
capital stock, this foregoing definition may be revised at the
Bank's option, in such manner as the Bank shall reasonably
determine.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Kenya shillings) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsi-
diaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition-of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.


﻿- 13 -
(b) A change shall have been made in the Charter which would
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower.
(c) A resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower.
(d) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 hereof shall occur.
(b) Any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date of6/              *     / is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Industrial Development Bank Limited
National Bank Building
Harambee Avenue
P. 0. Box 44036
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVBANK                         22339
Nairobi, Kenya
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
September 15, 1983                                500,000
March 15, 1984                                    525,000
September 15, 1984                                550,000
March 15, 1985                                    575,000
September 15, 1985                                600,000
March 15, 1986                                    625,000
September 15, 1986                                650,000
March 15, 1987                                    675,000
September 15, 1987                                700,000
March 15, 1988                                    725,000
September 15, 1988                                750,000
March 15, 1989                                    775,000
September 15, 1989                                800,000
March 15, 1990                                    840,000
September 15, 1990                                880,000
March 15, 1991                                    920,000
September 15, 1991                                960,000
March 15, 1992                                  1,000,000
September 15, 1992                              1,050,000
March 15, 1993                                  1,100,000
September 15, 1993                              1,150,000
March 15, 1994                                  1,200,000
September 15, 1994                              1,250,000
March 15, 1995                                  1,300,000
September 15, 1995                              1,400,000
March 15, 1996                                  1,500,000
September 15, 1996                              1,600,000
March 15, 1997                                  1,700,000
September 15, 1997                              1,800,000
March 15, 1998                                  1,900,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.35%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5.05%
More than eleven years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                                6.40%
More than fourteen years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                7.35%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   L&V    day of     , 198 0L.
FOR SECRETARY


