Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  54439 
Operation Name 
Tajikistan Programmatic Development Policy Grant 4 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General finance sector (26%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (25%);Primary education (25%);Aviation (24%) 
Project ID 
P117692 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
Presidential Administration 
80 Rudaki Avenue 
Dushanbe 734023 
Tajikistan 
Tel: 992 372 213 446 Fax: 992 372 213 446 
matlubkhon@nm.ru 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
October 22, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 15, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Key development issues 
 
Tajikistan has been badly affected by the 2008/09 global economic crisis.
 
The economy, 
which had been growing strongly (8 percent annually from 2000
–
08), is projected to grow at 2 
percent in 2009, due to a sharp decline in remittances and a fall in exports of cotton and 
aluminum.  Remittances, which accounted for nearly 47 percent of gross national product (GDP) 
in 2008, are expected to decline in 2009 by about 30 percent from US$2.21 billion in 2008 to 
US$1.55 billion in 2009.  Exports are expected to decline by 24 percent, due to lower 
international prices of cotton and aluminum.  A revenue shortfall of 3 percent of GDP compared 
with budget projections of early 2009 is likely.  At the same time, expenditures to provide 
essential services to the population and to returning migrants who have lost their jobs abroad are 
rising.   
Poverty although declining steadily remains very high
.
In 2007, about 53 percent of the 
population was living below the poverty line of U$41 per month and 17 percent were living 
below the extreme poverty line of US$26 per month.
1
Poverty is largely a rural phenomenon, 
with 72 percent of the poor living in rural areas.  The possible return of migrant workers 
(estimated to comprise 1 million people, or almost half the labor force) will add to already high 
levels of unemployment.  Social indicators (primary and secondary school enrollment rates, 
infant mortality, maternal mortality ratio, and child malnutrition), which have only recently 
1
Data from the 2007 Tajikistan Living Standards Survey.  
Page  2
2
begun to improve following post-independence declines, are again at risk of deterioration.  
Tajikistan also suffers from chronic winter energy shortages, with serious impacts on the 
economy (the Tajik Aluminum Company has to curtail operations) and on social welfare.  
Tajikistan is the only country in ECA region unlikely to achieve most of its Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).
2
The combination of external shocks and long-term structural 
issues are putting pressure on the government to raise expenditures to safeguard recent gains in 
social welfare and to promote growth.   
Despite challenges and setbacks, the government has in recent years successfully pursued a 
program of reforms aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the private sector, at 
strengthening public sector management, and at improving the delivery of services.
 
It has 
eliminated or streamlined business licenses and increased the transparency of the inspections 
process, enacted laws and procedures to prevent monopolistic practices and promote 
competition, and privatized some 500 formerly state-owned enterprises through a process most 
observers regard as transparent.  It has taken the first steps to foster a more liberal and 
competitive aviation sector, with the intention of improving access to double-landlocked 
Tajikistan.  Aviation sector reforms are expected to lower the cost and improve the safety and 
convenience of air travel, with significant spillover effects for the overall economy.  In energy, 
the government has implemented a schedule of electricity tariff increases, with the objective of 
gradually achieving full cost recovery in service provision and of generating funds to maintain 
and expand services.  Reform has been accompanied by measures aimed at ensuring that people 
on low income can continue to afford a basic minimum level of energy services.  In cotton, the 
role of the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) in licensing cotton exports has been abolished and 
universal cotton grading standards have been introduced.  To improve public sector management, 
the government has introduced wage reform and merit-based recruitment and promotion for civil 
servants.  These are significant steps toward building a professional civil service, although full 
implementation is expected to take until 2011 or so.  A modern procurement law has been 
enacted, regulations adopted, procurement departments in key government agencies established, 
and staff to carry out procurement certified.  Full implementation of the new law is expected to 
result in much greater transparency and value in procurement.  The budget process has improved, 
starting with the introduction of an MTEF in the education sector.  This has required a 
substantial restructuring of the budget processes to give the education ministry
—
currently 
marginalized in the process of determining sector budget allocations
—
a
central role in the 
budget process.  A strategy and action plan to strengthen the independent audit function has been 
adopted, with legislation to follow.  The Bank is supporting the implementation of the reforms 
through the Public Sector Reform Project and the recently approved Public Financial 
Management Modernization Project.  To improve delivery of basic public services, the 
government has reformed the pay and benefits system for health and education professionals, 
with the intention of encouraging better performance and at reducing turnover of skilled staff.  It 
has also reformed the system of allocating budgets for education services to allow schools more 
freedom in determining how best to achieve results.   
 
2
The World Bank, Millennium Development Goals: Progress and Prospects in Europe and Central Asia region, 
2005. 
Page  3
3
Rationale for Bank involvement 
The Bank’s involvement in supporting the reform program will be valuable for several reasons.  
First, the Bank’s experience with implementing far-reaching reform programs in post-conflict 
countries, other countries of the former Soviet Union, and in Tajikistan itself, will help the 
government to articulate a reform program that is realistic and that will be effective in achieving 
its objectives.  Second, the Bank’s experience in working in partnership with other development 
partners will help the government to mobilize technical assistance to design and implement 
reforms.  Third, the Bank will be able to bring substantial financial resources to the effort, 
facilitating sound fiscal management. 
2. Proposed Objectives 
 
The development objectives of the proposed Fourth Programmatic Development Policy 
Operation are to protect basic services within a sustainable fiscal framework, to improve the 
environment for private sector development, and to improve government effectiveness.    
 
3. Preliminary Description 
 
Programmatic approach
.
This is the first of a proposed programmatic series of three development 
policy operations consistent with the forthcoming Country Assistance Strategy.
 
To achieve its 
objectives, the program requires maintenance of macroeconomic stability.  To maintain basic 
services, the program will support budget and expenditure monitoring.  To promote reform over 
the medium term, the program will support preparation of sector strategies and measures to 
promote the efficiency of resources allocated for basic services.  To improve the environment for 
private sector development, the program will support measures to streamline business regulation, 
strengthen the financial sector, modernize the aviation sector, and diversify agriculture.  To 
improve government effectiveness, the program will support reforms to strengthen capacity of 
government institutions, promote transparent public financial management, and enhance 
transparency of large state-owned enterprises. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The conclusion of an environmental screening of the proposed reforms, undertaken as per the 
requirements of OP 8.60, is that the reforms are not likely to be significant from an 
environmental point of view.  The project raises no issues with respect to social safeguards. 
 
5. Tentative Financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
20.0 
 Total 
20.0 
 
Page  4
4
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Roy S. Canagarajah 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4458 
Fax: (202) 614-0912 
Email: Scanagarajah@worldbank.org 
 
