Report No. PID11508
Project Name             JORDAN-JO-PSRL II
Region                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                   Central government administration (30%);
Law and justice (30%);
General public administration
sector (30%); Information technology (10%)
Project ID               P066826
Borrower(s)              THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PLAN
Ministry of Finance; Ministry of
Administrative Development and Ministry
of Justice
Address: P.O. Box 555, Amman 11118,
Jordan
Contact Person: H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah
Tel: 962-6-464-4466
Fax: 962-6-464-2751
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        November 14, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 28, 2002
Bank Approval Date       July 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Public sector modernization in Jordan is timely and clearly needed,
especially in light of the country's efforts at better integration into
the global trading and financial networks. Fortunately, it can be built
on already reasonably solid base. The country has a reasonably
well-functioning administration, a strong nucleus of committed high-level
civil servants. The discipline and work ethic of government employees is
better than in many developing countries. Well-qualified Jordanians hold
important civil-service positions in the region, especially in the Gulf,
in occupations ranging from nursing and teaching to management and
engineering.
As a lower middle income country, Jordan performs remarkably well along
major components of public sector management and governance, especially
regarding the rule of law, government effectiveness, and the regulatory
framework. Efforts to assure voice and accountability, while on a par
with worldwide averages, are relatively weaker. Thus, the country's
public sector reform program is being implemented on a comparatively sound
foundation, with the aim of raising the effectiveness and accountability
of the public sector to the standards of higher-income countries.
However, these public sector assets are underutilized owing to the
institutional liabilities of the system. The major public sector
management problems include compressed pay scales and ensuing difficulties
in recruiting managerial talent, large and variable monetary allowances,



cumbersome recruiting procedures with too little weight given to the
specific jobs to be performed, a budgeting system insufficiently linked to
policies and without the medium-term perspective needed for policy change,
focus on individual investment operations without programming of overall
investment in the context of policy priorities and resource availability,
long delays and a heavy paper burden inflicted on citizens for mundane
operations such as changing schools, operational rigidity due to the
large number of control layers (up to six) imposed on ministries - and
thus weak accountability for results, and some overlaps in
responsibilities among government organizations.
2. Objectives
The loan would be disbursed on the basis of satisfactory progress in the
government's program to strengthen public sector management generally, as
measured by several actions to improve the Government's institutional
capacity and incentives to deliver quality public services, and on the
basis of continued sound overall macroeconomic management. Description of
the above mentioned program are provided in section 4
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed loan is the second in a series of one-tranche
quick-disbursing loans associated with the Government's public sector
reform program. The most recent CAS (Report No. 19890-JO, 12 November
1999) identified public sector reform as a necessary complement to the
broad economic reforms (including fiscal and financial stabilization,
trade and privatization) that had been implemented, and, as a follow on
from the series of three Economic Reform and Development Loans (EDRLs)
that had been accorded by the Bank, proposed a second series of Public
Sector Reform Loans (PSRLs) to provide financial resources to the
government during the implementation of this program.
The loan would be accorded on the basis of continued satisfactory progress
in the government's program to strengthen public sector management
generally and to maintain satisfactory overall macroeconomic management.
While the IMF has focused on the macro-fiscal framework (through a series
of EFFs), Bank dialogue has focused on the central issue of improving the
institutional capacity and incentives of the government to deliver quality
public services with lower transactions costs for users. In particular,
dialogue has sought to strengthen reforms in three areas: civil service
management and public administration, budgeting and public financial
management, and judicial reform.
Bank financing would contribute to the government's fiscal program, in
line with Fund's medium-term economic framework, which includes limiting
the use of high-interest commercial credit so as to improve fiscal
sustainability and of domestic borrowing that could crowd out credit to
the private sector. At the same time, the external resources would help
prevent a deterioration in the country's foreign reserve position, thus
underpinning its fixed exchange rate regime and providing an added measure
of confidence given the instability in the Region. The proposed loan
would contribute to filling the external financing gap, which is projected
at US$ 330 million before this loan, additional debt relief by the Paris
Club in 2002 and possible new purchases from the IMF.
4. Description
-2-



The Government's program can be summarized in three main components:
(i) civil service and administrative reform This component aims to improve
dramatically the interaction of the citizen with government agencies.
Thus, the vision for this component is one where the Government is
providing cost-effective, fast and efficient services in all departments,
where personnel management is fast, accurate and systematic, where the
system provides the correct incentives to produce the appropriate
environment for employees to carry out their tasks. The Government has
chosen a two pronged approach: on the one hand to make the public sector
workforce more service friendly and client oriented, and, on the other, to
render transactions with government agencies simpler, faster, more
professional, and more transparent.
(ii) Improvements in Financial and Budgetary Management: This component
aims: (i) to have a first basic Medium Term Budget Framework in time to
frame the preparation of the budget for 2005. During 2002-03, the GoJ
intends to revise the budget circular as needed for consistency with the
other budgetary reforms, and issue it no later than July of each year to
afford sufficient time for the line ministries to prepare sound
expenditure programs of their own, and for the subsequent iteration,
negotiation, and parliamentary debate; (ii) to improve investment
programming for the Economic Development Program and for development and
poverty reduction in general; (iii) to foster result-orientation of
administrative procedures and civil servants' efforts away from sole
attention to inputs and toward the results of government activity is clear
in Jordan; and (iv) to improve the predictability of actual expenditure;
(iii) Reform of the Judicial System: This component aims ensure a
performance   oriented, business friendly judiciary to facilitate rather
than impede private sector investments and to bring Jordan up to par with
international standards, in light of the free trade agreements and
accession to the WTO.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD $120.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $120.00
6. Implementation
The program implementation is primarily the responsibility of four
ministries - each working in coordination through a set of committees
with overlapping membership. Civil Service and administrative reform is
led by the Ministry for Administrative Development, with support from the
Ministry of Post and Telecommunication for the e-government initiative.
Financial management and budget reform is led by the Ministry of Finance,
with some parts being led by the Ministry of Planning. Finally, the
judicial reform is led by Ministry of Justice.
Implementation is designed to be incremental and pragmatic but with
clearly defined objectives with specific, time bound actions. The
approach aims to obtain early successes that can ensure good will and
build momentum for subsequent measures. Substantial attention has been
- 3 -



devoted to building a strong capability for self-diagnosis in government
agencies, with incentives to make continuous adjustments and improvements
within the overall vision.
The loan itself would be disbursed in a single tranche at effectiveness,
based on prior actions in the major reform areas.
7. Sustainability
Two risks can affect sustainability.
First, continuing uncertainty in the Middle East could pose a risk to the
implementation of government programs, both macroeconomic and public
sector reform. However, such uncertainty is a persistent problem for
Jordan, and its past record suggests it can cope with it effectively.
Recent economic performance has been robust, and the Government has
continued to implement a wide range of economic reforms despite
significant tensions, unrest and related economic strains. Thus, while
the risk is real, it is important that its potential impact not be
overstated.
Second, as public sector reform is an inherently long term and
comprehensive task, there is the risk that the program will be implemented
more slowly than envisaged, and that fragmentation will sap its
coherency. Within Jordan, substantial impetus for reform comes from the
King himself, and the Government is strengthening the management of its
program by the appointment of an interministerial steering committee. In
addition, continued dialogue with the Bank (for example through the PSRL
series) and the many other external partners can help by emphasizing the
importance of commitment and leadership, by helping design feasible
reforms and realistic targets, and by helping establish benchmarks for
performance. The evidence would suggest this risk - while ever present --
is manageable.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
While diagnosis of the public sector has been a mainstream complaint since
1984, and efforts to reform the public sector have been an important part
of the mandate of every Jordanian government since that time, progress to
date has been slow.    Some of the reasons for lack of progress have been
frequent cabinet reshuffles (governments typically average less than a
year), lack of resources to carry out reforms beyond diagnostics, and use
of the public sector employment to help maintain the delicate
socio-political equilibrium of Jordan. In terms of World Bank support,
one lesson is that single-tranch loans provide a sound basis for recurrent
dialogue on public sector problems and reform, that require a multiyear
horizon, but their timing needs to be increasingly synchronized with the
government's own budget cycle especially to facilitate improved public
financial management.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Not Applicable
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Paolo B. Zacchia
-4-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 961-1-987800
Fax: 961-1-986800
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 22, 2002.
-5-



