Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report no. P 7542-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$ 120 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
May 31, 2002
Social and Economic Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restncted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of May 2002)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)                                JD 1.00 = US$ 1.43
UD$ 1.0 = JD 0.708                                                 JD 1.00 = fils 1,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metnc System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMF            =              Arab Monetary Fund
ASCUDA         =              Automated System of Customs Data
BOP            =              Balance of Payments
CAS            =              Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ            =              Central Bank of Jordan
CFAA           =              Country Financial Accountabilhty Assessment
CPAR           =              Country Procurement Assessment Report
DDSR           =              Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DFID           =              Department for Intemational Development (UK)
EFF            =              Extended Fund Facility
ERDL           =              Economic Reform and Development Loan
EU             =              European Union
GDP            =              Gross Domestic Product
GNDI           =              Gross National Domestic Investment
GOJ            =              Govemment of Jordan
GTZ            =              Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Cooperation Bureau)
IFC            =              Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF            =              Intemational Monetary Fund
MICT           =              Mnistry of Information and Communications Technology
MoAD           =              Ministry of Administrative Development
MoF            =              Minstry of Finance
MoJ            =              Ministry of Justice
MoP            =              Ministry of Planning
MTBF           =              Medium Term Budget Framework
NFA            =              Net Foreign Assets
NTB            =              Non Tariff Barrier
ODA            =              Official Development Assistance
PPG            =              Public and Publicly Guaranteed
PSET           =              Program for Social and Economic Transformation
PSRL           =              Public Sector Reform Loan
SDR            =              Special Drawing Right
SOE            =              State Owned Enterprise
UK             =              United Kingdom
UNDP           =              United Nations Development Program
US             =              United States
USAID                         United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT            =              Value Added Tax
WTO            =              World Trade Orgamzation
Vice President:                      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Chief Economist and Director:        Mustapha Nabli
Country Director:                    Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:                      Dipak Dasgupta
Team Leader:                         Charles Humphreys



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE HASHEMrrE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
L INTRODUCTION .1............ 
II. THE ECONOMIC SITuATioN ...........................1.. . ...      .   .  .   .   ...... .
PoucIEs, PERFORMANCE AND  PRosPECTS  ........................................................................................................
FISCAL PERFORMANCE AND PuBLIc DEBT MANAGEMENT ARE THE KEY REMAINING MACROECONOMIC
CHALLENGES .2
THE IMPORTANCE OF PROPOSED ADJUsTMENT LENDING IN THE MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC
FRAMEWORK                                        ,,...... 4
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM .............................................................. 6
A. BACKGROUND AND CONTEXT ..............................................................  6
B. MAIN COMPONENTS OF REFORM PROGRAM .         .............................................................  7
B. 1. Civil service and Administration Reform     .................................... .  8
a. Background .............................................................. 8
b. Improvements to the Civil Service and Administration ......................................................... 8
o   Civil Service Reform ..............................................................  8
o   Improvements in Services to the Pubhc ..............................................................  9
c. Expected Program Results ..............................................................  10
B.2. Budgetary and Financial Management Reform  .................................................... 10
a. Background ..............................................................  10
b. Improvements in Financial and Budgetary Management ..................................................... 10
o Budgetary Improvements .10
o   Investment Programming and Better Integration of Capital and Recurrent
Spendinge.1
o Fostering Results-Orientation .11
o Financial Management .12
c. Expected Program Results .12
B.3. Reform of the Judicial Sector ................................ . . .        12
a. Background ..................................... 12
b. Improvements in the Judicial System .....................................  13
c. Expected Program Results ........................                         14
C. PROGRAM LJIPLEMENTATION ..............................,,,.,.,,. 14
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ................. .    .                                          15
A. LOAN RATIONALE .................. 15
B. LOAN AMOUNT, DISBURSEMENTS, FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDITING ..................................... 15
C. REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBSEQUESNT BANK QUICK-DISBURSING LOANS ................................................. 16
D. SUPPORT FROM OTHER EXTERNAL PARTNERS ......................................................... 18
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................................................      18
V. RECOMMENATION ......... 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- Iv -
TABLES:
TABLE 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators ...........................................3
TABLE 2: Financing Plan for Balance of Payments .......5.....................................
TABLE 3: Key World Bank Exposure Indicators ......6.....................................6
Box:
Box 1: Program for Social and Economic Transformation ............................................4
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1:       Policy Matrix
ANNEx ii:      Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX iii:     Improving Public Services in Jordan
ANNEX Iv:      Structural reform in Jordan, 1989-2001
ANNEX v:       Paris Club Debt Rescheduling Agreements with Jordan
ANNEX vi:      Statistical information
Jordan At a Glance
Key Economic Indicators
Selected Indicators
Key Exposure Indicators
Status of Bank Group Operations
Status of IFC' s Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAP 29234



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND PUBLIC SECSTOR REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Amount:              US$ 120 million.
Terms:               LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan
Loan Objectives:     This loan would be the second in a series of three quick-disbursing public
sector reform loans (PSRLs) proposed in the current CAS. Bank financing
would contribute to the Government's growth promoting fiscal program.
At the same time, the external resources would reinforce the country's
foreign reserve position and underpin nominal exchange rate stability. By
contributing to the Government's fiscal sustainability, the loan would
facilitate continued implementation of its reform program, begun in 1996.
Preparation and supervision of these loans provide a vehicle for the Bank
to pursue a dialogue and to monitor progress on key elements of public
sector reform program.
Loan Description:    The loan would be disbursed on the basis of satisfactory progress in the
government's program to strengthen public sector management generally,
as measured by several actions to improve the Government's institutional
capacity and incentives to deliver quality public services, and on the basis
of continued sound overall macroeconomic management.
Benefits:            The loan would contribute to maintaining the Government and the country
in a stronger financial position to weather economic and political shocks,
in a Region always marked by high volatility but especially so now. Such
a cushion of stability should also enhance the Government's attention to
continuing to implement its public sector reform program, as laid out in its
letter of development policy. This program aims, inter alia, to improve the
contractual environment for the private sector through judicial
strengthening and reform, to improve the delivery of public services via
improved management of the civil service and administrative reforms, and
to strengthen public expenditure management and accountability.



- vi -
Risks:               First, continuing uncertainty in the Middle East could pose a risk to the
implementation of government programs, both macroeconomic and public
sector reform. However, such uncertainty is a persistent problem for
Jordan, and its past record suggests it can cope with it effectively. Recent
economic performance has been robust, and the Government has continued
to implement a wide range of economic reforms despite significant
tensions, unrest and related economic strains. Thus, while the risk is real,
it is important that its potential impact not be overstated.
Second, as public sector reform is an inherently long term and
comprehensive task, there is the risk that the program will be implemented
more slowly than envisaged, and that fragmentation will sap its coherency.
Within Jordan, substantial impetus for reform comes from the King himself,
and the Government is strengthening the management of its program by the
appointment of an interministenal steering committee.  In addition,
continued dialogue with the Bank (for example through the PSRL series)
and the many other external partners can help by emphasizing the
importance of commitment and leadership, by helping design feasible
reforms and realistic targets, and by helping establish benchmarks for
performance. The evidence would suggest this risk - while ever present -- is
manageable.
Disbursement:        The loan would be disbursed in one tranche of US$ 120 million.
Financing Plan:      Not Applicable
Environment
Category:            C
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable



I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed second quick
disbursing Public Sector Reform Loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in an amount of $120
million. This loan will help support the Government's growth promoting fiscal program and reinforce its
foreign exchange position to underpin nominal exchange rate stability. In conjunction with this request,
the Government has reaffirmed its commitment to deepen its program -- begun in 1996 -- to strengthen
public sector management generally, as measured by several actions to improve the its institutional
capacity and incentives to deliver quality public services. The Government has implemented reforms
specified in the First Public Sector Reform Loan P 7455-JO and laid out an ambitious series of measures
it intends to carry out over the coming 12-18 months. Its program focuses on three main components:
civil service and administrative reform, budgetary and financial management, and judicial reform. The
proposed Bank support is fully consistent with the form and level of lending proposed in the most recent
CAS and would be part of a much larger package of financing from the IMF, bilateral and multilateral
donors, and the Paris Club.
II. THE ECONOMIC SITUATION
Policies, Performance and Prospects
2.    Jordan, a small, resource-poor', open economy with a per capita GDP of about US$ 1760 in
2001, belongs to the group of lower middle income countries. Jordan's performance is influenced by the
economic and political events of the region, its vulnerability to regional shocks and oil prices stems from:
the special importance of its exports of labor services (worker remittance inflows amount to 20 percent of
GDP); the tight links between the evolution of regional income from oil and its exports of goods; and the
sensitivity of its tourism receipts to political instability at its borders.
3.     The growth collapse after the mid-1980s essentially challenged the Jordanian economy to find a
very different development model from the one that had prevailed until then. The specific challenges
were to restructure the economy from public sector domination to private sector leadership, from reliance
on non-traded goods and services to export-led growth, from regionally oriented protected domestic
industries to globally competitive sectors at home and international markets, and from low-skill to high-
skill workers employed in the domestic economy. Responding to these challenges, the Government has
pursued an ambitious reform agenda since 1989 to stabilize the economy, improve efficiency, and
broaden the role of the private sector (see Annex 4). These reforms have produced some significant shifts
in the economy. Public sector demand 2 has decreased by 5 percentage points of GDP, private non-
residential investment as a share of GDP has doubled to 8 percent over 1990-98, exports have become
increasingly diversified with the share of top 10 products declining from 74 to 64 percent and the share of
top 5 destinations declining from 57 to 40 percent.
4.     Macroeconomic stabilization was secured over 1990-95 by a tight fiscal policy to generate
primary budgetary surpluses (after grants), and by an exchange rate policy that progressively depreciated
' Only 6 percent of land is arable, water scarcity is severe, and mineral resources are limited to potash and
phosphates.
Public sector demand excludes govermment transfer and interest payments which are significant and rising in
Jordan.



- 2 -
the Dinar (22 percent in real terms over 1989-95)3. Tight monetary policy helped bring inflation rapidly
down to 3 percent and build reserves. At the same time buoyant private sector demand generated by Gulf
returnees and export supply response encouraged by currency depreciation helped generate strong annual
economic growth of around 8 percent on average.
5.     More recently (1996-2001), annual GDP growth slowed initially to 3 percent (until 1999),
followed by a pick up in the last two years (2000-01) to around 4 percent. Since population growth is
about 3 percent per year, real income per capita has registered modest increases, barely above the peak
reached in the 1980s in real terms. Also, given the fast pace of labor force growth at 3.8 percent and
persistent unemployment of 14-15 percent, at least 6 percent growth would be required to lower the
backlog of unemployment.
6.    Inflation has remained very low for much of the period (under 2 percent), as a result of the
exchange rate policy which has kept the nominal Dinar-US dollar rate unchanged since 1996. This
monetary and nominal exchange rate stability came at some cost, however, as the real effective exchange
rate appreciated by about 20 percent between 1995 and 1999. Partially as a result, exports have remained
essentially flat over 1996-2000, although there appears to have been a recovery in 2001 with a 21 percent
growth, helped mainly by the exports from Qualifying Industrial Zones that were created in 1998 to
permit duty-free and quota-free exports from Jordan to the United States.
7.     The near-term prospects for growth could be in the range of 5 to 6 percent, in part because of the
special stimulus package - the Program for Social and Economic Transformation (PSET) (See Box 1) -
expected to be implemented over the next four years. Inflation is targeted to fall back to under 2 percent
after a moderate increase in the current year because of the elimination of subsidies on petroleum
products. As the economy picks up momentum, the current account of the balance of payments is
expected to gently rise to moderate deficit after grants, around 1 percent of GDP in the medium term.
The need for government borrowing (after grants) is targeted to decline gradually below 4 percent of
GDP, in line with the Government's debt policy. However, a capital account financing gap at or above 2
percent of GDP is projected because of debt service obligations and the need to maintain reserves in line
with targets agreed with the IMF.
Fiscal Performance and Public Debt Management are the Key Remaining Macroeconomic ChaUenges
8.     While significant adjustment efforts have taken place and overall quality of governance is good
among MNA comparators, a continuing concern over Jordan's economic policy stance is that the fiscal
deficit and the public debt have remained high, while the budget structure leaves limited room for
maneuver.
9.     Fiscal Performance The overall fiscal deficit amounted to about 8 percent of GDP before grants
during the second half of the 1990s. Though the programmed fiscal deficit target slipped, the authorities
over performed in limiting expenditures (as they have in the past), but the revenue target was missed
because of "teething troubles" of implementing a new base for General Sales Tax, cuts in customs duties,
and loss in non-tax revenues caused by low international prices of phosphates. As the revenue efforts of
Jordan are respectable at 30 percent of GDP, the primary cause for large fiscal deficits is the size of
expenditures. Total public wages, salaries and pension contributions amount to about 12 percent of GDP
(high but at least stable over the last decade), roughly half civilian and half military.4  Pension
3 Jordan's real effective exchange rate is double weighted - weighted with exports to trade partners, and in each
export market weighting for third country competition.
4 Jordan's civilian government employment as a share of population at about 3 percent is well below the MNA and
world averages.



- 3 -
expenditures, especially for security and military personnel, are rising, now at about 4-5 percent of GDP. 5
Military and security expenditures are substantial at over 8 percent of GDP. Though roughly one half
(between 3.5 and 4 percent of GDP) of the fiscal deficits is covered by external grants, which make the
high fiscal deficits sustainable in the short-term, fiscal adjustment remains an appropriate strategy in the
medium-term.6
Table 1
Key Macroeconomic Indicators
l _  ll_   l        3      ~~~~~~~~~~(Projf won)
Real GDP (market prices) growth, annual percent           7 2      310     4.2     5.i     6.0     5.8
Gross national savings, current prices, percent of GNDI  19 2     2159    20.9    20.9    20.6    207
Gross fixed investment, current prices, percent of GDP   29.3     25 81   25.91   26.51   26.31   26.6
Inflation (CPI), annual percent                           4 2      2 E     I.EI    3.51    2.4     I.E
Growth in merchandise exports, annual percent, nominal   10.7      1.4    20.7    10.0     7 8     7.6
Fiscal balance (central Government), percent of GDP'
Excluding grants                                       -5.3     -8.3    -7.9     -9.9   -10.1   -9.3
Including grants                                       -0.6     -4.3    -3.7    -4.1     -4.3   -3.9
Financing                                             0.6      4.3     37      4 1      4.3    3.9
Foreign borrowing (net)                             1.2      2.2     I.S     2 (     0.9'    1.
Privatization (net)                                   -_._    _              2.0     2.7     2.5
Domestic borrowing (net)                           -0.6      2.1     2.31 0_1        0 |     O_  I
Primary balance, including grants                       4.9      0.4     0.5      0 0     0 1    -0 1
Fiscal revenues, including grants, percent of GDP        368      30.8    304     31.6    31.7    31.
Fiscal expenditures, commitment basis, percent of GDP X  35.7     35.2    34.2    35.7    36 0    35.3
Of which PSET spending, percent of GDP                 N/A      N/A      N/A      2.9     3.7     3.5
Current account balance, including grants, percent of GDP  -10.6   0.6     0.4    -0.3    -0.4    -0.8
External debt service, percent of exports of goods and
services, including workers' remittances.                17.0     14.7    12.1    12.9    13.0    12.3
External public debt, end period, percent of GDP 2      1020      860     80.9    764     71.2    66.
Gross domestic debt, end period, percent of GDP          19.5     20.1    21 9    20.3    19.3    17.8
Projected BOP financing gap, percent of GDP              N/A      N/A     N/A      2 2     2.9     3 6
Source: Based on Bank and Fund Staff estimates and projections.
N/A is not applicable.
I Including PSET expenditures.
2 Excludes short term debt; includes collateralized Brady Bonds.
5 Pension expenditures in particular have been growing at an annual rate of 12 percent during the past decade while
contributions have remained low, increasing the pension deficits from 2.6 percent of GDP in 1992 to over 4 percent
of GDP in 2001.
6 The largest component of budgetary grants is that from Iraq. The Iraqi grant typically varies between US$ 200 and
US$ 300 million per year, depending on the discounts applied to the sale of crude oil by Iraq to Jordan, as negotiated
annually.



- 4 -
Box 1: Program for Social and Economic Transformation
Motivated by a sense of urgency to spread the fruits of development to ordmnary Jordanians, the Jordanian
Government announced in November, 2001 an ambitious four-year program to accelerate the social and economic
transformation of the country (PSET). The program envisages a large additional expenditure package plus
accelerated reforms and projects in several areas to create a better environment for higher economic productivity and
output, namely (i) direct public investment in education, vocational training, culture, media, youth care, health care,
social productivity and poverty alleviation, water resources and rural development, telecommunications,
construction and civil defense; (ii) fiscal reform; (iii) administrative reform; (iv) judicial reform; (v) major
development projects (Disi water conveyance, power plants, natural gas pipeline from Egypt and the development of
Aqaba, Amman and the Dead Sea) to foment private investment; and (vi) improvement in the legislative,
institutional and regulatory framework. For 2002, the plan envisages an expenditure of JD 275 million contingent on
the availability of privatization proceeds (with no more than 30 percent of privatization proceeds to be used) and
supplementary foreign grants, so as to avoid increasing government debt. In projecting growth for 2002 at 5 percent,
it is assumed that PSET spending will be somewhat less at JD 200 million, given implementation lags. If the
program is scrupulously implemented as announced without endangering macroeconomic stability, it has the
potential to boost GDP growth between 0.5 to 1.0 percentage point, depending upon the actual size of the fiscal
stimulus and supply side effects including the impact of the reforms.
10.    Public Debt Jordan has one of the highest ratios of public debt to GDP in the MNA Region
(though declining and with a very moderate debt service to GDP ratio, because half of the external debt is
concessional). Jordan has benefited from several debt restructuring agreements through the Paris Club
(see Annex V), debt forgiveness of about US$ 750 million from the United States after the Oslo Accord,
and, of late, debt for development swaps from European donors. Jordan made use of privatization
proceeds to retire Brady bonds of US$ 195 million at a discount of 50 percent. As a result, total public
sector debt relative to GDP declined from 123 percent of GDP in 1995 to about 100 percent in 2001 (of
which a fifth is domestic debt, reflecting a shift from external to domestic borrowing, especially from
commercial banks). Reducing the debt burden is a clear objective of the Government, which has
introduced legislation to limit the total (external and internal) debt to be no more than 80 percent of GDP,
and neither of them higher than 60 percent individually.
The Importance of Proposed Adjustment Lending in the Medium-term Economic Framework
11.    The current financial program of the Government, prepared in consultation with the IMF and
which projects an increase in the nominal value of net foreign reserves judged essential to maintain
confidence in the official exchange rate, envisages an external financing gap for 2002 of US$ 330 million,
before the proposed loan and any additional debt relief that may be accorded by the Paris Club later this
year. The proposed loan would reduce the need for the Government to raise more expensive foreign
private credit7 or to borrow domestically, which could potentially crowd out credit to the private sector.
Tables 1 and 2 illustrate the financing plan for the fiscal and the balance of payments deficits under the
current medium-term framework, which assumes the PSET program will be funded as envisaged.
7 Jordan's Brady bond (par value bonds) have a sovereign spread of around 435 basis point as of April, 2002 and sell
at a discount of 17.5 percent to face value.



- 5 -
Table 2
Financing Plan for Balance of Payments
(in millions of US dollars)
.                   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Current Account                            58      32     -24     -41     -85
Foreign grants                          404      442     647     734     731
Capital Account                           871    -133      54     130      62
Public sector                           -361    -159     -98    -111    -272
Disbursements                           171     342     382     382     262
World Bank                             38     161     160      48     128
Of which PSRL2                        N/A     N/A     120     N/A     N/A
Amortization                            532     501     479     492     533
World Bank                             56      57      57      65      73
Private sector (net)                    1232      26     152     241     334
Overall balance                           929    -100      30      89     -23
Increase in NFA (including IMF/AMF)      1226     197     348     439     423
Net financing requirements                297     287     318     350     447
Debt relief                               97      93      56      51      45
Debt rescheduling (existing agreements)  200     204      51       0       0
Residual Financing gap                      0       0     210     299     402
Net usable foreign reserves          [   276     25791   2737    27711   2818
in months of imports (excluding re-exports)  7.5   7      6.7    6.21     5.9
Source: Bank and Fund Staff estimates, April, 2002.
12.    The World Bank's share of Jordan's extemal debt will marginally rise to 14.3 percent with the
disbursement of the proposed PSRL-2 loan as shown in Table 3. However, this rise has to be seen in the
context of a general improvement in credit worthiness indicators. The ratio of extemal debt (including
PSRL-2) to GDP is projected to decline over 2000-2002 by 10 percentage points to 76 percent, and
World Bank debt service as a percent of the export of goods and services is projected to decline by nearly
a quarter, to 1.4 percent, though it will rise subsequently. Jordan could be seen as moving into the group
of moderately indebted middle-income countries this year. The estimated net transfers from the World
Bank in 2002 with the disbursement of PSRL-2 are estimated at US$ 65 million conforming to the CAS
program.



- 6 -
Table 3
Key World Bank Exposure Indicators
(in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise noted)
Extemal debt service on PPG, percent of exports of goods and services
including worker remittances                                  12.3     12.1     12.
Extereal public debt, end period, percent of GDP l              86 8_     1       7
World Bank
New Commitments                                        |       35_     120      12_
Disbursements t                                                38J     161|      165
Of which PSRL-2                                              N/A       N/A       12(
Debt Service                                                  10r      10_9'
Amortization                                                 561       575
Interest Payments                                      _     5         4'93
Net Transfers                                                 -7(       5'        6
Debt to World Bank (year end)                                 854      9411     1044
iMemo.imms
Debt to World Band as percent of external debt          |     11.8|     13.A     14.3
PDebt to World Bank as percent of GDP                   |      14.31    15.q    I_5.4A
D)ebt service to World Bank as percent of exports of goods and services |  .4  1.A  1.41
Source: Bank and Fund staff estimates.
N/A is not applicable.
I Excludes short-term debt; mcludes collateralized Brady Bonds.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A. BACKGROUND AND CONTEXT
13.    Public sector modernization in Jordan is timely and clearly needed, especially in light of the
country's efforts at better integration into the global trading and financial networks. Fortunately, it can be
built on already reasonably solid base. The country has a reasonably well-functioning administration, and
a strong nucleus of committed high-level civil servants. The discipline and work ethic of government
employees is better than in many developing countries. Well-qualified Jordanians hold important civil-
service positions in the region, especially in the Gulf, in occupations ranging from nursing and teaching to
management and engineering.
14.    As a lower middle income country, Jordan performs remarkably well along major components of
public sector management and governance, especially regarding the rule of law, government
effectiveness, and the regulatory framework. Efforts to assure voice and accountability, while on a par
with worldwide averages, are relatively weaker. Thus, the country's public sector reform program is
being implemented on a comparatively sound foundation, with the aim of raising the effectiveness and
accountability of the public sector to the standards of higher-income countries.



- 7 -
15.    However, household surveys and other sources have documented substantial costs inflicted on
users by outmoded service delivery mechanisms and red tape. Accordingly the public sector could be
significantly improved by reducing regulatory rigidity and red tape, improving policy coordination and
programming capacity, and developing a service culture, to ensure that service delivery and resource
allocation are radically improved. In the absence of institutional change across government, including in
the incentive framework and in organizational structures, Jordan's eventual transitional to developed
country status will continue to miss a vital link. The conclusion is clear: modernization of the state
apparatus is both achievable and indispensable.
16.   The major public sector management problems include compressed pay scales and ensuing
difficulties in recruiting skilled as well as managerial talent,8 large and variable monetary allowances,
cumbersome recruiting procedures with too little weight given to the specific jobs to be performed, a
budgeting system insufficiently linked to policies and without the medium-term perspective needed for
policy change, focus on individual investment operations without programming of overall investment in
the context of policy priorities and resource availability, long delays and a heavy paper burden inflicted
on citizens for mundane operations such as changing schools, operational rigidity due to the large number
of control layers imposed on ministries - and thus weak accountability for results, and some overlaps in
responsibilities among government organizations.
17.   This diagnosis of the public sector has been a mainstream complaint since 1984.9 But progress has
been slow. Some of the reasons for lack of progress include: frequent cabinet reshuffles; lack of
committed resources to carry out reforms beyond diagnostics; and the role assigned to public sector
employment in the delicate socio-political equilibrium of Jordan. A fresh start was made, however, with
the report ("Modernization and Development of the Public Sector") presented in July 2000 to His Majesty
King Abdallah Ibn Al-Hussein by the Committee for Administrative Reform. The report analyzed why
past efforts to reform the public sector have been ineffective. Among them were lack of institutional
ownership for the reform program, lack of close oversight on the part of the Royal Court and a more
gradual but systematic approach to the reform effort. Since then, the King himself has been more closely
involved in overseeing the overall reform effort. Following recent appointments, there is now in Jordan a
critical mass of reform-minded ministers in key leadership positions. Moreover, the Government has
approved a stronger implementation strategy and arrangements, and these were instrumental in achieving
recent progress.
B.    MAIN COMPONENTS OF REFORM PROGRAM
18.   The Government's program can be summarized in three main components: civil service and
administrative reform, budgetary and financial management, and judicial reform.
8 The lower levels of the civil service are overpaid by private sector standards, and generally over-qualified. The
higher-level personnel are relatively underpaid as a result of the erosion of real salaries in recent years. As a result,
there has been an exodus of good civil servants (largely reversed during and immediately after the Gulf War) both to
the private sector and to the Gulf countries. Thus, one specific characteristic of Jordan is that its higher level civil
servants (including those in education and health) are directly subject to international competition. The challenge
for the Government is to design a salary scale that can provide sufficient incentives to attract and retain such civil
servants, while keeping total wage and pension payments within fiscal constraints.
9 The King's programmatic note to the past 12 governments has a mandate to reform the public sector and improve
its services.



- 8-
B.]. Civil Service and Administration Reform
a. Background
19.   A main element of the program is to improve dramatically the interaction of the citizen with
government agencies. Thus, the vision for this component is one where the Government is providing
cost-effective, fast and efficient services in all departments, where personnel management is fast,
accurate and systematic, where the system provides the correct incentives to produce the appropriate
environment for employees to carry out their tasks. The Government has chosen a two pronged
approach: on the one hand to make the public sector workforce more service friendly and client oriented,
and, on the other, to render transactions with government agencies simpler, faster, more professional,
and more transparent.
b. Improvements to the Civil Service and Administration
Civil Service Reform
20.   Reforming Jordan's civil service has been on the national reform agenda since the early 1980s.
The desired long term outcomes of this component are to substantially improve the management and the
incentives of the workforce and to respond to the need for more accountability within the civil service.
The vision is to ensure by 2004 a civil service able to retain and attract honest, efficient workers, where
there is sufficient administrative capacity for continuous monitoring of the workforce, where the
environment nurtures and capacity exists for change and improvement on a continuous basis.
21.   Towards this objective, the government adopted a new civil service bylaw and its implementing
regulations in May 2002. This law contains a new code of ethics for public employees and provisions for
more meritocratic selection of senior managers, regular and more transparent evaluation and promotion
of personnel, and greater scope for dealing with unsatisfactory staff. As part of the process of
strengthening civil service recruitment and management, the Government has finalized the job
descriptions (duties, reporting arrangements, and qualifications) for 58 public departments covering the
great majority of civil servants and is now electronically posting all job openings as well as the pool of
eligible applicants on line. Civil service managers are being trained in English and computer skills to
help them use new management tools. Finally, the Government has approved selective pay increases,
especially for judges. A more comprehensive study of the incentive framework including pay and
allowances in the broader context of Jordan and the region (since the country is an exporter of labor) is
planned over the coming years.
22.   Finally, to ensure strengthened institutional oversight capacities for the civil service, the
Government created in April 2002 a Ministry of Administrative Development (MoAD). Its role is to
become essentially the "management ministry" with responsibility for human resources management,
training, and monitoring of service quality. 10
10 Human Resource management was previously the responsibility of the Civil Service Bureau, which will maintain
its regulatory functions. Training was formerly the responsibility of the Jordanian Institute of Public Administration
which will be merged into MoAD and reorganized to ensure the highest level of technical competence. It will focus
exclusively on civil service training, both as a direct supplier of training services and as a facilitator for outsourced
training required by departments.



-9 -
Improvements in Services to the Public
23.   The focus and objectives of this component are to obtain rapidly very tangible results in
improving service delivery to citizens in as many front line services as possible and, in so doing, lay the
groundwork for further self-sustaining improvements. Progress has been achieved in several areas,
including publication of service directories in 33 public departments (ministries as well as autonomous
organizations) - which identify the available services, the time necessary for each transaction, the
location of relevant offices, and the official cost of each service. These directories will continue to be
published and posted over the next 2 years with the aim of covering all 1,400 services offered to the
public. Under the e-government initiative, several services will be available electronically (including the
income tax, general sales tax, and land use and surveys departments). In addition, the government
program has simplified procedures in a total of 40 public departments, significantly reducing the paper
burden on users.'
24.   In some instances, the streamlining and simplification of government services and procedures has
involved important restructuring actions, notably in the context of the privatization program12, and in
education and health. The actions under the administrative reform program have eliminated redundant
agencies involved in internal control and auditing.
25.   Because the reform process is long term, the Government is establishing a permanent network for
improving quality and access to services. This network would be essentially made up of key civil
servants within each agency and would take the form of task forces whose membership would change
according to the specific services being examined. A small core of leaders would drive the efforts in each
ministry and provide the two-way contacts with the MoAD regarding training, system-wide quality
enhancement and change assessment. They will supply a way to test and refine the techniques and
training managed by the MoAD, and provide a monitoring mechanism to ensure that simplification and
streamlining plans are carried out and produce the desired results. The program will oversee the
development of a monitoring and evaluation system to help monitor implementation, and may include
service delivery surveys, service standards, an increased use of internet feedback. In the future, for
example, departments will be expected to establish service standards and to conduct service delivery
surveys regularly to gauge satisfaction and to identify problems areas by getting systematic feedback
from users.
26.   As a critical adjunct to other efforts to improve public service delivery, the Government has
established an e-government Program Management Unit in the Ministry of Information and
Communications Technology to promote the use of information technology within government, and it
has recently promulgated a law authorizing electronic transactions to help establish the legal foundation
for e-government.
27.   Other elements in this field aim to address the accountability of providers. The Government has
adopted a requirement that all civil servants in contact with the public are to wear name tags and be
personally accessible by phone. In addition, all government offices are to have customer service offices
" Examples of this process are included in Annex 3, including payment of income taxes, sending registered mail
and postal orders, receiving aid from the National Aid Fund for disabilities and in securing admission to vocational
training, changing schools, registering real estate transactions, calculating and receiving state pensions, etc. In
addition, discussions are continuing on streamlining investment promotion policies and procedures, which would
complement earlier initiatives to improve the business climate and reduce overlaps, and on streamlining the
functioning of government procurement agencies.
12 The privatization program has dealt with the consolidation of SOEs and has operated in the context of the
modernization of the regulatory framework.



- 10-
providing guidance with clear signs and transformed physical layouts to facilitate transactions. When
feasible, single windows and decentralized offices would be established.
c. Expected Program Results
28.   Over time, the reforms described above can be expected to lead to substantial improvements in the
quality and deployment of the workforce and, by extension, in the quality and effectiveness of public
services. In addition, if the reform program is successful, the process of improving administrative and
civil service performance will itself have become institutionalized and sustainable. Performance
indicators include: the extent to which new civil service selection procedures are followed; the extent to
which the new appraisal, performance criteria and career management system is put into practice; the
extension and impact of process simplification in government agencies, as measured against benchmarks
and standards, in part through service delivery surveys; the publication of up to date service directories;
and the extension of e-government within the administration.
B.2. Budgetary and Financial Management Reform
a. Background
29.   Jordan's budget process has functioned well in the 1990s to assure fiscal discipline, which has
allowed the Government to introduce reforms aiming to strengthen the link between sector policies and
resource allocation to raise the efficiency of budgetary management. With support from UNDP and the
GTZ, a variety of activities have sought a wide-ranging transformation of the entire system into full-
fledged "performance budgeting" covering all ministries and spending units. In the face of limited
progress, a September 2001 assessment, financed by the Bank at government request, endorsed the
overall vision of the reform effort but concluded that the scope of the initial activities had been too
ambitious with limited government ownership.  Based on lessons learned, the Government is
"relaunching" its budgetary reform program, as outlined below.
b. Improvements in Financial and Budgetary Management
Budgetary Improvements
30.   The design and implementation of new sectoral policies are hampered by the small (5-7%)
discretionary margin typical of the annual budget. A medium-term budget framework (IvITBF) permits,
among other things, to program expenditure consistent with new policy initiatives by providing a multi-
year frame for the annual budget process. Full institutionalization of an MTBF, grounded on medium-
term programs and cost estimates by and for all major ministries, will take time. The Government's
objective is to have in place a first basic MTBF in time to frame the preparation of the entire budget for
2005. Toward this objective, the Government has made a start in June 2002 by projecting medium term
(3-5 years) resource availabilities for expenditures. During 2002-03, two or three sector ministries will
prepare bottom-up sectoral medium-term expenditure programs within a results-oriented approach, and
the process will be extended to other ministries thereafter. In parallel, the budgeting capacity of line
ministries needs to be strengthened, and the Government will formulate during 2002 a capacity-building
program for line ministries, to be budgeted for and implemented beginning in 2003.
31.   Because the lynchpin of good expenditure management is a robust estimate of revenues, the
Government has established in May 2002 a special team to strengthen revenue forecasting, including
specific targets for improving fiscal marksmanship in 2003 and beyond. It has also decided to include



- I1 -
expenditure ceilings for each ministry and agency in the budget circular for 2003 - adding up to the
projected overall resource availabilities - to calibrate preparation of sector spending programs and to
reduce gamesmanship, excessive bargaining and micro-intervention by the Ministry of Finance. -During
2002-03, the Government intends to revise the budget circular as needed for consistency with the other
budgetary reforms, and issue it as early as possible before July of each year to afford sufficient time for
the line ministries to prepare sound expenditure programs of their own, and for the subsequent iteration,
negotiation, and parliamentary debate.
Investment Programming and Better Integration of Capital and Recurrent Spending
32.   Raising the efficiency of investment will be crucial for realizing the ambitious goals of the
Program for Social and Economic Transformation and for development and poverty reduction in general.
The institutional arrangements for investment selection and budgeting in Jordan carry a number of
weaknesses, however. These include the organization of the Ministry of Planning along sectoral lines;
the separate budgetary handling of aid-financed projects, locally-financed projects, and the current
budget; the lack of recurrent cost estimates for projects; and the lack of a comprehensive database,
requiring a special exercise every time the government wishes to know the total cost of investment
projects to which it has committed. The disconnect between investment decisions and the preparation of
the current budget prevents consideration of complementarities, contradictions or duplications among
projects, and thus leads to suboptimal resource allocation. In general, therefore, more cooperation is
required at all stages in the budget process between the Ministries of Finance and Planning to achieve
some integration between capital and recurrent expenditure decisions. In this process, the first essential
step must be the integration of all investment spending, whether financed domestically or with foreign
aid.
33.   The MoP has made in May 2002 a strong start in this direction by establishing an internal
committee to coordinate decision-making, and by embarking on the design of a comprehensive database
of investment projects, whether aid-financed or not, to be operational by the end of 2002. During 2002-
03, it will formulate proposals for improving the overall programming of public investment, including
associated recurrent costs, with the aim of progressively integrating decisions on investment and
recurrent expenditures during preparation of medium term expenditure programs.
Fostering Results-Orientation
34.   The need for re-orienting administrative procedures and civil servants' efforts away from sole
attention to inputs and toward the results of government activity is clear in Jordan. The potential gains in
terms of public services access and quality from introducing performance orientation in the
administration, including through the budgeting process, are substantial. At the same time, international
experience and Jordan's own recent experiments point to the complexities and pitfalls of performance
measurement in government activities. The Government has accordingly decided in June 2002 to adopt a
timebound but progressive approach of learning-evaluation-feedback, with maximum feasible
participation by front-line employees and service users, beginning with a pilot for the immunization
program in the Ministry of Health. This will include a mechanism for continuous evaluation and
modification of the performance indicators, which should be few, simple, cost-effective, relevant, and
monitorable. During 2002-03, the exercise will extend to at least four other programs in this or other
ministries, in time to affect the preparation of the budget for 2004, and then progressively to other parts
of the government. At the same time, procedures for a systematic dialogue on results in the context of the
annual budget preparation will be formulated to establish a meaningful but not mechanistic link between
results and future resource allocation.



- 12-
Financial Management
35.   As noted in the most recent CFAA, the basic financial controls are complex and focused on
compliance but effective nonetheless in assuring a reasonably acceptable accountability framework:
resources are spent in accordance with the budgeted amounts. Reforms in the late 1990s have succeeded
in eliminating unauthorized advances and arrears in payments to SOEs -- thus improving the
predictability of actual expenditure; budget execution is tightly controlled, largely through the control of
monthly cash releases to mninistries and agencies; corruption is low; and external audit is reasonably
effective from a compliance perspective. The Government is also working to establish a computerized
system of real-time budgetary reporting, to improve monitoring of budget execution. Streamlining of
control systems is desirable, not only to speed decisions but also to allow more delegation of spending
management to line ministries, as part of the gradual move towards results-oriented budgeting.
c. Expected Program Results
36.   The process of budgetary and financial management improvement is continuous, and long term.
There will be a continuing need for high level government commnitment, including leadership by the
Ministry of Finance - commitment that exists in principle but remains to be solidly manifested in critical
areas of budget preparation. Over time, the reforms described above can be expected to lead to substantial
initial improvements in resource allocation and expenditure effectiveness. Because their design and
implementation, although ambitious, are consistent with the growth of administrative capacity, the
lessons of international experience, and the changes in incentives generated by the other elements of the
Government's public sector reform program, there is a reasonable likelihood that these improvements
will be sustainable. To help monitor implementation, quantitative or qualitative indicators may include
the discrepancy between actual and estimated revenue by major sources of revenue, and between actual
and budgeted expenditure by major types of expenditure; the clarity of the links between sector policy
priorities, ministries' major expenditure programs, and budget allocations; the accuracy,
comprehensiveness, and user-friendliness of the aid and investment project database; the improved
interaction between the MoP and line ministries regarding project selection, and between the MoF and
MoP regarding the integration of investment and recurrent budget decisions; and an evaluation of the
extent to which performance orientation has developed within the ministries piloting the approach, and of
its results'in terms of economy, efficiency, and effectiveness. This monitoring would be based in part on
surveys of key budget actors, as well as front-line administrative personnel and users of public services.
B.3. Reform of the Judicial Sector
a. Background
37.   The Jordanian Government has entered the consolidation stage of its reform of the justice system,
broadly defined. The efforts undertaken in the last couple of years, notably on the legislative level, were
part of the drive to place Jordan on an equal footing with its business partners in the EU, the USA (with
both of which Jordan has concluded free trade agreements), and the WTO. In addition, commendable
legislative progress has been made in matters related to the functioning of the judiciary, including the
strengthening of the independence of the magistrates, their career development and training, as well as
their compensation, and the simplification and rationalization of legal procedures through the
introduction of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
38.   This initiative stems from a broad-based realization that Jordan is entering an era in which its legal
framework and justice system are key factors in attracting domestic and foreign private investments.



- 13 -
Private sector operatives, lawyers, judges and the citizens in general not only support the need for
upgrading the justice system, they have triggered the reform, arguing that an antiquated legal framework
and a flawed justice system are a drain on the economy. The simultaneous and important changes in a
large number of laws must be complemented by adequate enforcement with a justice system that is up to
the task. It is felt that the present justice system is not prepared to face this challenge and that its
improvement is a priority task in improving the lives of citizens.
39.   The progress made does not alter in any visible manner last year's assessment regarding the
general problems the legal and judicial system is encountering in Jordan. There still is inadequate
predictability of judgments. The judicial process is yet to become fully efficient and the backlog of cases,
while dealt with in a partial manner, is still a central issue. Others problems include the heavy case load
(nearly 2400 cases per judge a year according to ministry estimates), lack of transparency of judicial
decision-making, insufficient competency in matters of business law broadly defined, limited capacity to
enforce judgments, poor dissemination of legal information, and antiquated processes and organization in
the Ministry of Justice. In short, progress is real, the Government's commitment to upgrade its justice
system is also a reality and evidence is there to prove it. There is, however, still a long journey ahead.
40.   The desired long term outcomes of this component are on the one hand to ensure a performance
and user oriented, business friendly judiciary capable of underpinning an engine for growth rather than an
impediment to private sector investments and economic development and to bring Jordanian justice
system up to par with international standards, in light of the free trade agreements and accession to the
WTO.
41.   Specifically, this will be achieved by (i) strengthening the independence of magistrates; (ii)
simplifying and rationalizing legal procedures with a view to reducing delays; (iii) setting alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms, with particular emphasis on commercial matters, to reduce the case load
of judges; (iv) increasing the transparency of judicial decision-making and predictability of judgments,
(v) increasing competency of the present and future judicial corps in matters of business law broadly
defined, (vi) improving the judicial system's enforcement capacity, (vii) ensuring broader and more
timely dissemination of legal information through electronic access to speed archiving and dissemination,
(viii) broadening the participation of stakeholders in drafting new legislation, and (ix) modernizing the
Ministry of Justice's work processes, including but not limited to, the judicial inspection unit within the
Ministry.
b. Improvements in the Judicial System
42.   To respond adequately to the deficit in the number of judges across the country and to improve
their working conditions, the Jordanian Government has embraced a comprehensive approach including
the following: (i) improving the working conditions -- financial, training-wise and through provision of
an adequate environment in terms of new buildings and modern equipment -- of the existing and future
pool of judges, (ii) introduction of computerization to reduce the burden on them and to increase the
speed and security of judicial decisions, and (iii) devising an alternative dispute resolution system to
reduce the backlog of cases.
43.   To implement this program the Government has recently amended the statutes of the Judicial
Institute for training of judges to transform it into a more efficient and relatively autonomous public
agency; the Institute has revised the curriculum, including the introduction of new courses in business
law and foreign languages, and developed a training plan to upgrade the skills of existing judges and
auxiliaries of justice. In 2001-02, the Ministry of Justice recruited some 80 new judges (both through the



- 14-
normal processes of hiring graduates of the Judicial Institute and through "lateral" hiring of lawyers) with
increased pay and improved pensions, computerized the Amman court system, and completed a detailed
feasibility study for a fully integrated, computerized case management information system for all of
Jordan. To assure sufficient infrastructure, the Government is implementing a program to build new
courthouses across the country and to establish new tribunals in Amman, in addition to the main Palace
of Justice. Modem tools of case processing have been installed and the training required to operate them
has been delivered, as a first step in the introduction of a modern, country-wide case management system.
44.   Finally, an Arbitration Code has been enacted to reduce the delays in the judicial process, notably
in matters of commercial litigation. Jordan has already adhered to and ratified all relevant international
instruments.
45.   To increase the overall transparency of the system, plans for disseminating legislation over the
internet have been finalized, and an electronic database with reliable access for all potential users is in
place.
c. Expected Program Results
46.   The ultimate result will be an improved judiciary system, providing faster, fairer and more
transparent judicial services. When achieved, the program will have established a legislative framework
that facilitates continuous reform and institutionalizes an independent judiciary, modernized case
management throughout Jordan, improved the size and quality of the judicial service, and assured full
access to judicial information for all users.
47.   The program will also have fully computerized all courts throughout the Kingdom to the level
already achieved in the Palace of Justice in Amman, allowing for more transparent, predictable and user-
friendly delivery of justice, and at least 50 of the courts will have instituted a case management system.
The Ministry of Justice itself will also have introduced new management procedures and information
systems aimed at facilitating users' interaction with the Ministry.
48.   The program will also improve the working conditions of the judges. Specifically, their workload
will have been significantly reduced as measured against existing workloads from baseline surveys to be
conducted. The reduction would be effected by the hiring of qualified new recruits, the introduction of
new case management systems, and the successful implementation of out of court dispute settlement
procedures and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. On-the-job training for sitting magistrates and
auxiliaries of justice at high-level standards will have become systematized.
C. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
49.   Program implementation is primarily the responsibility of different ministries, working in
coordination through a set of committees with overlapping membership. Civil service and administrative
reform is led by the MoAD, with support from the Ministry of Information and Communications
Technology for the e-govemment initiative. Financial management and budget reform is led by the
Ministry of Finance, with some parts being led by the Ministry of Planning. Finally, the judicial reform
is led by the Ministry of Justice. To strengthen overall guidance and coordination and to assure as rapid
progress as possible, the Government is establishing a high-level Interministerial Coordinating
Commnittee for Public Sector Reform chaired by the Minister of Planning. Mtmbers include the
Ministers of Justice, Administrative Development, Finance, Information and Communications
Technology, and Industry and Trade.



- 15 -
50.   Implementation is designed to be incremental and pragmatic but with clearly defined objectives
with specific, time bound actions. The approach aims to obtain early successes that can ensure good will
and build momentum for subsequent measures. Substantial attention has been devoted to building a
strong capability for self-diagnosis in government agencies, with incentives to make continuous
adjustments and improvements within the overall vision.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan Rationale
51.   The proposed loan is the second in a series of one-tranche quick-disbursing loans associated with
the Government's public sector reform program, as outlined in its Letter of Development Policy (in
Annex 1). The most recent CAS (Report No. 19890-JO, 12 November 1999) identified public sector
reform as a necessary complement to the broad economic reforms (including fiscal and financial
stabilization, trade and privatization) that had been implemented. As a follow on from the series of three
Economic Reform and Development Loans (ERDLs) that had been accorded by the Bank, the CAS
proposed a second series of Public Sector Reform Loans (PSRLs) to provide financial resources to the
Government during the implementation of this program.
52.   The loan would be accorded on the basis of continued satisfactory progress in the Government's
program to strengthen public sector management generally and to maintain satisfactory overall
macroeconomic management. While the IMF has focused on the macro-fiscal framework (through a
series of EFFs), Bank dialogue has focused on the central issue of improving the institutional capacity
and incentives of the Government to deliver quality public services with lower transactions costs for
users. In particular, dialogue has sought to strengthen reforms in three areas: civil service management
and public administration, budgeting and public financial management, and judicial reform.
53.   Bank financing would contribute to the government's fiscal program, in line with Fund's medium-
term economic framework, which includes limiting the use of high-interest commercial credit so as to
improve fiscal sustainability and of domestic borrowing that could crowd out credit to the private sector.
At the same time, the external resources would help prevent a deterioration in the country's foreign
reserve position, thus underpinning its fixed exchange rate regime and providing an added measure of
confidence given the instability in the Region. The proposed loan would contribute to filling the external
financing gap, which is projected at US$ 330 million before this loan, any additional debt relief that may
be accorded by the Paris Club iater this year, and possible new purchases from the IMF.
B. Loan Amount, Disbursements, Financial Management and Auditing
54.   The proposed loan would be US$ 120 million, to be disbursed in a single tranche at effectiveness.
55.   Disbursement will follow the simplified procedures in accordance with the 1996 Operational
Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Credits. Loan proceeds will be placed in a Deposit Account opened by the Government in
the Central Bank of Jordan, before being withdrawn by Government into appropriate Treasury accounts
to finance pari passu general budgeted expenditures, subject to normal budgetary policies, procedures and
controls. The Government will submit to the Bank within one month of the closing date of the loan a
report showing transactions on the Deposit Account, including evidence that withdrawals were paid into



- 16 -
appropriate Treasury accounts. In addition, the Government will effect an independent external audit of
the Deposit Account within three months of the closing date of the loan, to ascertain whether funds
disbursed by the Bank were received into the Deposit Account and were subject to adequate policies and
controls of the Central Bank, and whether the local equivalent of the funds withdrawn were paid into
appropriate Treasury accounts to finance budgeted expenditures, subject to normal budgetary policies,
procedures and controls. If the proceeds are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan
Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the Deposit Account, or to
refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent amount from the
outstanding balance of the loan. The closing date for loan will be 31 July 2002.
56.   The administration of the loan will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which will
assure that withdrawals from the Deposit Account are not used specifically for ineligible government
expenditures. The MoF will maintain records of all transactions from the Account in accordance with
generally accepted accounting practices.
57.   The Bank carried out a CPAR and a CFAA on Jordan in 1999-2000. While both procurement and
financial management systems are highly centralized, the reports concluded that rules and regulations are
adequate and broadly respected, and that resources are spent in accordance with the budgeted amounts.
Regarding procurement, the CPAR concluded that it is largely transparent and competitive and that "the
overall risk associated with corrupt practices affecting public procurement in Jordan is considered low by
both private and public participants." Regarding financial management, the CFAA notes "in general, the
Government's management control system appears adequate with many layers of checking and counter
checking" though being driven by rules compliance rather than output performance, limited by cash
accounting methods, and hampered by sometimes slow response times. It recommended the elimination
of overlapping internal audit agencies, which has been done, phasing out ex-ante audits by the external
audit bureau and having the audit bureau's budget set directly by Parliament. The view in the CFAA was
that the progressive move toward the results-oriented budget reforms being proposed by the Government
would be one way of improving the efficacy of financial management (as well as overall budget
performance), but noted that it would require, inter alia, new regulations, streamlined financial
management procedures, substantial capacity building and training, and computerization of financial
transactions. The Government's public sector reform program is addressing many of the key constraints
identified.
C. Requirements for Subsequent Bank Quick-Disbursing Loans
58.   The current series of quick-disbursing loans has been conceived to provide financial support to the
Government while it carries out its program of public sector reform. The Government has agreed to
achieve substantial progress in several key areas over the near term (the next 12-18 months), and an
assessment of this progress would be taken into account in deciding on the subsequent PSRL, currently
scheduled for late 2003 so as to provide financing at the beginning of the Government's 2004 fiscal year.
Much of what Government expects to accomplish builds directly on the decisions and actions over the
previous few years, with the aim of refining approaches, extending pilots, and generally assuring
successful implementation of previous decisions -- rather than the introduction of totally new measures.
However, major steps have recently been taken, and others are envisaged, to improve the annual budget
preparation process and place it in a multi-year perspective. The following areas represent those where
progress is most likely.
59.   Three themes are interwoven through the specific reform areas, and action on these will, to some
extent, be used in assessing commitment and progress under the Government's program. The first of



- 17 -
these is better internal coordination among agencies with overlapping responsibilities (notably Ministries
of Finance and Planning) and among initiatives with related goals and activities (especially in e-
government and information technology).  The second is stronger capacity building, and in particular
the effort made by Government to design and to finance, within its budget, specific capacity building
initiatives critical to the success of policy reforms. The third is more effective monitoring and evaluation,
both generally for the overall program and for specific initiatives, as a way of introducing mid-course
corrections and assuring satisfactory progress. In addition, because so many donors are involved in
public sector reform, the Government intends to set up a specific mechanism or procedure to help
coordinate the substantive content of donor assistance in this area.
60.   Civil Service and Administrative Reform. Actions cover five main categories: (1) effective
implementation of the new Civil Service Bylaw, with specific studies and reforms to strengthen
incentives for improved performance of public officials; (2) introduction of a variety of measures to
improve delivery of key public services, notably by streamlining and simplifying government procedures,
piloting results-oriented, medium-term budgets in a program in the health ministry (see below),
institutionalizing regular and scientifically rigorous service delivery surveys, and by extending the use of
e-government to agencies that have substantial interface with the public; (3) wider use of information
technology within government; and (4) establishment of an "innovation" fund (within the 2003 budget)
to encourage bottoms-up administrative reform notably by line agencies.
61.   Budget and Financial Management Reform. The Government will continue the progressive move
toward a multi-year framework for the annual budgeting process, while strengthening the process itself
and gradually introducing elements of results orientation. To these ends, among other measures, the
Ministry of Finance will formulate medium-term (3-5 year) expenditure projections and set sectoral
expenditure ceilings at the start of the budget preparation cycle, to be approved by Cabinet and included
in the budget circular for the subsequent year's budget; the process will begin in 2002 for preparation of
the 2003 budget. As an adjunct to this process, the Ministry of Finance is improving its revenue
forecasting. The Mvinistry of Planning is designing a comprehensive database of all investment projects
that will be put in place by the end of the 2002. The Ministry of Health is launching a pilot exercise in its
immunization program to improve the link between results and the budget, and the Government intends
to introduce similar pilots in at least four other programs during in 2003. The Ministry of Finance intends
to extend the budget classification nomenclature to accommodate program designations. The Ministries
of Finance and Planning are to formulate a program to assist line ministries to improve their budgeting
capacity and expenditure, to underpin the move toward medium term expenditure forecasting and greater
results orientation. The Ministry of Finance intends to begin introduction of a unified, computerized
financial management information system - in part to speed internal reporting, while strengthening
control procedures and capacity in the main spending ministries (health, education, and public works).
62. Judicial Reform. Actions cover five key areas: (1) refinement of the strategic approach to legal
reform; (2) expansion of court capacity and efficiency through deployment of a nation-wide
computerized case management system, construction of additional court buildings, and better continuing
professional education by the newly reorganized Judicial Institute; (3) strengthened procedures and
capacity to enforce judicial decisions, including those coming out of alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms; (4) better and wider dissemination of judicial information, especially electronically; and (5)
establishment of new mechanisms for prior consultation on proposed legislation and regulation, to
improve content and to build consensus among those affected.



- 18-
D. Support from Other External Partners.
63.   The IMF approved a third Extended Fund Facility for SDR127.88 million on April 15, 1999, of
which just over half has been released. The final drawdown is expected soon, and the Government has
requested a subsequent EFF.
64.   Several other donors, notably the EU and the US, provide substantial financing to Jordan, for both
projects and as quick-disbursing budget support, increasingly in the form of grants. In fact, recent grant
aid to Jordan amounts to nearly 5 percent of GDP, and disbursements from official loans, including from
the World Bank, have been nearly 3 percent of GDP. Many other donors are actively involved in
providing technical assistance to the Government for public sector reform, notably DfID, GTZ, the
UNDP and other UN organizations, the Netherlands, and Japan, as well as the EU and USAID.
65.   The Government's financial program has also been supported by five successive debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club (with the next one scheduled for July 2002), by a Debt and Debt Service
Reduction (DDSR) operation with the London Club, and by a debt buy-back arrangement with the former
Soviet Union. Several creditor countries (US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, and Switzerland among
others) have reduced official bilateral debt on the order of US$ 1.2 billion. (See Annex 5.)
E. Benefits and Risks.
66.   While the Government's program is being implemented, the Bank's loan would, as noted above,
contribute to maintaining the Government and the country in a strong financial position to weather
economic and political shocks, in a Region always marked by high volatility but especially so now.
Such a cushion of stability should also enhance the Government's attention to continuing to implement its
public sector reform program, as laid out in its letter of development policy. The program itself aims to
create a more effective and efficient public sector and to provide better public services, key elements in
the Government's vision of Jordan as an efficient platform to attract foreign direct investment and to
enhance the competitiveness of its exports of goods and services - to take advantage of Jordan's
attractive trade agreements with key partners. Dialogue on this program, in the context of the PSRLs,
also provides a conduit for the Bank to convey good practice from international experience with public
sector management reform. While the program is not designed specifically to alleviate poverty,
improved judicial and administrative services to the public - notably through greater attention to
performance in key front-line ministries like health and education -- can contribute to this objective. In
particular, the reforms being implemented can help the Government meet the challenge of implementing
its Program of Social and Economic Transformation, which has several targeted poverty alleviation
initiatives.
67.   This loan can be considered risky for two reasons. First, continuing uncertainty in the Middle East
could pose a risk to the implementation of Government programs, both macroeconomic and public sector
reform. However, such uncertainty is a persistent problem for Jordan, and its past record suggests it can
cope with it effectively.  Recent economic performance has been robust, and the government has
continued to implement a wide range of economic reforns despite significant tensions, unrest and related
economic strains. Thus, while the risk is real, it is important that its potential impact not be overstated.
68.   Second, as public sector reform is an inherently long term and comprehensive task, there is the risk
that the program will be implemented more slowly than envisaged, and that fragmentation will sap its
coherency. Within Jordan, substantial impetus for reform comes from the King himself, and the
government is strengthening the management of its program by the appointment of an interministerial
steering committee. In addition, continued dialogue with the Bank (for example through the PSRL series)
and the many other external partners can help by emphasizing the importance of commitment and



- 19-
leadership, by helping design feasible reforms and realistic targets, and by helping establish benchmarks for
performance. The evidence would suggest this risk - while ever present - is manageable.
V. RECOMMENDATION
69.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington D.C.
May 31, 2002






Annex I
Page 1 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component              Actions taken as of May 2002        Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
.______________________  l                      l2002-2003                         l
CIVIL SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
REFORM OF CIVIL             Cabinet approval of new Civil      Full implementation of Civil Service  A civil service that is managed
SERVICE                     Service Bylaw (and implementing    Bylaw, including development by    transparently, based on merit
regulations) containing (i) a new code  MoAD of a monitoring and evaluation  and performance, with
of ethics, (ii) provisions for the  system of civil service management  flexibility to adapt as needed to
meritocratic selection of top civil  (covering inter alia selection, appraisal,  deliver more effective services
servants, (iii) improved performance,  and career management)        to the public. The rnanagement
appraisal and promotion procedures                                   system would include clear
Establishment of a standard,       oversight responsibilities (e.g.,
Cabinet approval of a Ministry of  centralized, computerized human   in MoAD), regular management
Administrative Development with   resource information and            training, up-to-date
sufficient budget and competent staff  administration system that is accessible  computerized databases, use of
to oversee institutional reform and to  by at least half of the line agencies  e-government in recruitment,
manage the civil service                                              and a system to monitor and
Extension of managerial skills     fine tune the management
Finalization of job descriptions   upgrading to all managers          system
(duties, reporting arrangements, and
qualifications) for 58 departments  Formulation of a draft pay reform  Adoption of a pay scale that is
(covering the great majority of Civil  action plan, based on results of study  competitive at higher grade
Servants)                                                            levels and that provides
incentives for client-oriented
Online posting of all civil service                                  performance
vacancies as well as the queue of all
eligible applicants
Agreement on a system to monitor,
testanid adapt new appraisal and
promotion procedures



Annex I
Page 2 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component              Actions taken as of May 2002        Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
2002-2003
Creation and online posting of a
comprehensive civil service database
Formulation of a terms of reference
for a study on a centralized human
resource information system
Completion of first cohort of
managerial skills upgrading (English
and computers)
Formulation of a terms of reference
for a comprehensive study of pay
reform
IMPROVEMENT OF              Simplification of processes in 15  Extension of process simplification and  linplementation of process
PUBLIC SERVICES             government departments            streamlining-- together with the   simplification and streamlining
formulation of service standards--to at  (or re-engineering) initiatives,
Launch of service delivery surveys in  least 15 additional departments, and  including consolidation with e-
5 departments where there have been  adoption of a government-wide system  government initiatives - in the
process simplifications           to track departmental initiatives  majority of government
departments, together with
Publication of public service      Adoption of a government-wide      regular conduct and publication
directories for 33 departments     protocol for service delivery surveys  of service delivery surveys,
(specifying standards for objectivity,  under guidance from a ministry
Launch of e-government initiative  methods, frequency, responsibility,  like MoAD
through the creation of a Program  dissemination and use) and conducting
Management Unit, the publication of a  and publishing surveys in at least 5  Publication and regular
report highlighting the vision for the  additional departments       updating of service directories
| initiative, the drafting of a blueprint-  l_I for all 1400 government



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component              Actions taken as of May 2002        Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2 0 0 2 -2 0 0 3
roadmap, construction of at least 20       t                          services
community IT centers, and approval  Initiatifion of government
of a law authorizing electronic   inratives- for dffcusson of government
transactions                       informatim and access to govern7ent
services-- in 7 agencies
Implementation of information
technology systems in the
Telecommunications Regulatory
Commission, the Directorate of
Companies Registration, the Vehicle
Licensing Department, the Income Tax
Department, the General Sales Tax
Department, and the Border and
Residency Department, and
government-wide computerization of
personnel and budget
Creation of a "government innovation
fund" to maintain the momentum of
public sector reform by encouraging
and financing efforts by agencies to
design administrative reforms and to
l_____________________________ |build needed institutional capacity
EXPENDITURE PROGRAMMING AND BUDGET PREPARATION
MEDIUM-TERM BUDGET          Commitment of MoF to prepare       Formulation of medium-term         Establish by mnid-2004 a
FRAMEWORK                  U aggregate medium-term (3-5 years)  expenditure programs in health and  || systematic process of medium-
expenditure projections, to be     education, approved by Cabinet and  term expenditure programming
l_______________________ 1approved by Cabinet and included in  incorporated into expenditure     Zgrounded on resource



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component             Actions taken as of May 2002        Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _2002-2003
the circular for the 2003 budget  projections to frame the 2004 budget  availability within a rolling
macroeconomic framework and
Extension of the medium-term       on policy-based programs of
expenditure programming process in at key ministries, approved by
least four additional nministries or  extendedto all sprgendingl
agnce                              agencies
BUDGET PREPARATION          Commitment of MoF to specify the  Cabinet approval of initial expenditure  Regular observance of budget
PROCESS                     initial expenditure ceilings for each  ceilings for all ministries and agencies  calendar, providing sufficient
R   ministry and agency, consistent with  consistent with both resource  time to ministries and agencies
revenue projections, beginning with  availability and sectoral      for formulating budget requests,
the circular for the 2003 budget  policies/costing                   consistent with expenditure
ceilings and sectoral policy
Revision of the format and instructions
of the budget preparation circular to be  Implementation of measures to
consistent with medium-term policy-  improve budgeting capacity
based budget preparation           throughout government
Issuance of the circular for preparation
of the budget as early as possible
before July of the preceding year
beginning with 2004 budget
preparation
Establishment of a process of regular
dialogue between MoF and line
ministries on effectiveness of budget
preparation process
Formulation by Ministries of Finance



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component              Actions taken as of May 2002       Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
2002-2003
and Planning of a program to improve
budgeting capacity in the line
ministries
REVENUE FORECASTING         Creation of an intermninisterial  Adoption of measures to reduce the  Continuous improvement of
mechanism to improve revenue      historical discrepancy between     fiscal marksmanship, as the
forecasting                       estimated and actual annual revenue  basis for realistic expenditure
l_________________________ ________________________________ ________________________________     programming
INVESTMENT                  Establishment of a conmmittee within  Full operationalization of the  Maintenance of a
PRVESTMEINT                 Ministry of Planning to coordinate  investment database              comprehensive aid-management
PROGRAMMING                 project decisions in different sectors                               and investment project
Establishment of procedures requiring  information system (to
Design of a comprehensive database  accurate projections of all recurrent  maximize externalities and
for all projects, and definition of a  costs of projects over the medium to  efficiencies)
work plan to put it in place      long term
Systematic incorporation of
Systematic incorporation of rolling  projected recurrent costs of
capital and recurrent cost projections of projects into overall medium-
projects into the MTBF             and long-term expenditure
projections
More comprehensive
integration of capital and
recurrent expenditure budgeting
EXPENDITURE                 Decision to launch a pilot exercise for  Implementation of the pilot exercise in  Deepening the performance
EFFICIENCY AND              results-based budgeting in the    health, including selective introduction  culture in government
EFFECTIVENESS               immunization program in the Ministry  of program classification, definition of  administration, through realistic
El  EFVNS                    of Health                        indicators, and mechanism for      definition of objectives, targets,
evaluation and feedback - with    indicators, and a systematic
l___________________________ lmaximum participation by service       dialogue on performance in the



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component              Actions taken as of May 2002         Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
2002-2003
users                               context of budgetary
discussions
Extension of results-based budgeting
pilots for programs in at least four
additional areas
Definition of appropriate qualitative
links between efficiency and
effectiveness and the allocation of
future budgetary resources
LEGAL AND JIDICIAL REFORM
CONiMERCIAL DISPUTE         Enactment of an arbitration code to  Regular assessment of impact through  Increased recourse to arbitration
RESOLUTION                   reduce the delays in the judicial  informal surveys and implementation  and procedural case
process, notably in matters of     of refinements                      management (managed
commercial litigation                                                 resolution of civil and
commercial cases) with reduced
Introduction of procedural case                                        burden on court system
management through amendments to
relevant laws (code of civil and
I commercial procedures)
MODERNIZATION OF THE         Adoption and initial implementation  Govemment adoption of a          Full integration of case
COURT SYSTEM                 of the Royal Scientific Society s2tudy  comprehensive plan for country wide  management in the judicial
on the modernization of the judiciary  court management including training  system, with widespread use of
for judges and auxiliaries of justice  the improved access to court
files and cases
Full implementation of court
management plan in Amman
_______________________ .___________       .___________._    _       Approval of plans and  budgets for ans and.budgets_for



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
POLICY MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Component              Actions taken as of May 2002         Additional Actions during        Medium-term outcomes
l________ _  2002-2003
implementation in the rest of the
country
JUDGES                       Provision of adequate budgetary    Recruitment of an additional 140   Significant improvement in the
resources i) to raise salaries of judges  judges                       working conditions of judges,
and ii) to hire an additional 80 judges  Implementation of a system to monitor  and more time to devote to the
the workload for judges             management and resolution of
Adoption by the Government of a new                                   the cases assigned to them
plan aimed at establishing a flexible
and evolutionary salary scale and an
improved pension scheme for judges
TRAINNG AND                  Amendment of the law regulating the  Implementation of the National   Better trained, more up-to-date
PROFESSIONAL                 National Judicial Institute        Judicial Institute's new curricula for  corps of judges and auxiliaries
STANDARDS                                                      judges and auxiliaries of justice   of justice, through regular
Introduction  of new  courses  on                                      continuing education
business law broadly defined and on
foreign languages
Adoption of a systematic training
program for judges and auxiliaries of
I_______________________________  justice                      l                                   l






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                        ;A:jUIi .LJl
OF JORDAN                                                    -I
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                 i
AMMAN                    <        ,l
Ref.No.   ./........... ... .                                         ..
Date    1   6/2.9.JZ                                        . ....................
ne_ . .. .................   43 l; 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank Grou)
Washington, D.C., U.E A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
This letter summarizes the comprehensive medium term program of
public sector reform ihat the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan initiated at thc end of the 1990s and describes the status of its
implementation. On -he basis of the substantial progress in strengthening
public sector management, and in light of Jordan's fiscal and external
financing needs, the Government is requesting a second public sector reform
loan from the World Bank.
The Bank's support would provide the Government with the flexibility
it needs in a difficult regional and international environcment to ensure that
the bard-won improvelnents achieved in the first stage of the public sector
reform program can be .;trengthened and extended. Furthermore, this support
will help the Governmtnt in sustaining the multiyear efforts needed to bring
this ambitious reform t:o fruition, just as Jordan has done in the last five
years in moving towards greater integration within the global economy and
in building the fundamentals for a market-led and export-led growth
strategy.
1:  Economic Reformi; and Recent Developments:
As you know, Jonian is a small country with few resources beyond its
people, and  to survive and prosper in an economically and politically
turbulent region presents a huge challenge.
Tel. (9626) 4644466flO-4644381/85 - Tcletax: 4649311-4642247- Cable: NPC Jo - Tclex: 21319 NPC Jo. -P.O.Box 555 Amman 111t8 Josdan
E-Mail: mopemop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                d                i.LJI ;jUI L.-JI
OF JORDAN
M   STRY OF PLANNING            ,
AMMAN
Rel.No . ......... ........
Date ~....-.  .. . -".__ J
D t..... ........ ....   ........... .,iI
Since the econoraic crisis of the late 1980s and the Second Gulf War,
Jordan has met this challenge with a development strategy that has
emphasized fiscal stat ility, pragmatic but far-reaching market liberalization,
and greater participation from all stakeholders in the social, economic, and
political sustainable de zelopment process.
Following a period of considerable expansion in the first half of the
past decade, with annual real growth rate averaging around 8 percent, the
economic performance in the second half of the 1990s experienced a
slowdown, with annual real growth rate averaging 3 percent. That economic
slowdown has provicled a challenge to our efforts towards achieving
economic stabilization.
Consequently, we have carried out an aggressive economic structural
and. adjustment reform programs, supported by the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund, with a strong emphasis on fiscal and monetary
stability, financial sector reform, trade liberalization, regulatory reform, and
privatization. We have made great strides in the area of international trade
policy, in particular through the membership in the WTO since 2000, the
Free Trade Agreement with the United States (2001) which made Jordan the
fourth country in the world, and the first in the Arab world, to enjoy the
benefits of exporting tc the United States free of quantitative and qualitative
restrictions, and the Association Agreement with the European Union, which
was signed in Septembar 1999 and came into effect, after due parliamentary
ratification, last monthi. Moreover, we have signed with the United States
and Israel the Qualifying Industrial Zones Agreement (QIZs) in 1998, which
gave the products of cernain areas the privilege to access the U.S. market free
of quota and tariffs. Fur1hermore, we established the Special Economic Zone
in Aqaba, in early 2001, to allow for an integrated private sector-led
development of this port city through a well-studied master plan, within a
special and more favorat le fiscal regime.
,:,Y  NA           NPC wrve        NPC L.  i vvt v-tlMor1 A 4U-(V%i. -1) I ILI/V--zLALrA%/Aa L
Tel. (9626)4604 644381/l5 . Telafax. 464914I4642247. Cable. NPC Jo -Tecx, 21319NPC lo.P.ox 555 Amman 11118 Jndi
E-Mail: mopemop.govj0



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                  X               ;l       I  JIl4.aJI
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN                                            -.
D  . ..  .......... .. .
The impact of these structural and adjustment reform efforts was clear
in various aspects. 'We succeeded in ransforming the economy from being
public sector oriented into one where the private sector plays a more active
role. Moreover, noticeable improvements in the macroeconomic
environment were alchieved.  This was reflected in high rates of real
economic growth, which registered 4.0 percent and 4.2 percent in 2000, and
2001, respectively. Inflation, measured by the percentage change in the
consumer price inde:;, remained low, registering 0.7 percent and 1.8 percent
in 2000 and 2001, I'espectively. The outstanding external public debt as a
ratio to GDP noticeacbly decreased to reach 76.0 percent in the year 2001
compared with 89.0 percent in 1998.
We are grateful for the World Bank's full support of these structural
reforms, in particular through the series of three Economic Refonn
Development Loans (EIRDLs) approved since 1995.
11   Social and EconDmic Transformation Program:
More recently, t1ie Government has adopted the Social and Economic
Transformation Program to improve the standard of living of Jordanians, and
to increase the resilience of the Jordanian economy to external shocks by
accelerating the pace of reforms. The overall development objective of the
program is to achie"e sustainable social and economic development, while
improving the quality of life and the standard of living for Jordanians. This
will be achieved through the following specific objectives:
Increasing the capacity of the economy to absorb more private
sector capilal by establishing and sustaining an enabling
environment, accelerating government decisions, proceeding with
privatization, and allowing for private investment in large
infrastructure projects.
* Developing htuman resources.
,)oji I% I\ %AL ea*o-, NPC y%T* ..4b  NPC le, - rturviv9-[tIvrtn l; ^4U (M5-I) LIt I Ll-f 1111 --LI^o WrlAalP
Tl. (9626) 4644466t704644381185 i Telefax: 4649341-4642247- Cable: NPC Jo -Telex: 21319 NPC Jb. - P.O.Box 555 Amman 11118 Jordan
E-Mail; mop(&mop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                      L J    I  ;i.;JI i4L-JI
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                  &   &l                       L      )I)
AMMAN
Ref.No                                                         . '.....  . .
DaR e.      ................................                              ................
Date  .................. ...............................   . ........................ . ........ .~~~~~........  ...-  ....................................................  e1;
*   Improving the quality of basic Government services, especially in
health and social services.
*   Enhancing productivity, promoting local community development
and businei;s outreach.
* Articulating fiscal, administrative, regulatory and judicial reforms
in the form of public investment.
This integrated approach calls for the adoption of a perfonnance based
growth budget, sup,orting and further strengthening the role of the private
sector, creating a powerful enabling environment by enacting effective
policies, laws and regulations and by building institutional capacity.
Acknowledging the fact that basic social services affect the quality of life of
all Jordanians, the program focuses on infrastructure and human resource
policies and projects in the areas of education, health, poverty reduction,
training and employment.
The process of putting together this program has been extensive and
lengthy. The first st>p was to obtain a national consensus on the program's
objectives and the main areas it targeted. This was done through a unique
partnership between the government and private sector and civil society that
was manifested in the Dead Sea Economic Forums (I&II) held in November
1999 and March 2001, respectively. The close inter-linkages between all the
strong synergetic eff cts of a well-thought out program that tackles all
dynamic interaction   between all the components has been the guiding
pnnciple in deciding oi the goals and objectives of the program.
Above all, the strong commitment and valuable support afforded by His
Majesty King Abdullah IT to the program ensures that all national efforts are
joined together to ensure the timely success and continuity of the program.
His Majesty has been personally following up on the progress of the
program including its efiective implementation.
M;w,"             N    A,   4e                        g PC n r%A .>NP -tN Wt.-  tr :,,  - (AII-1) SALf Elv%.-%1Vt %LrAVAeo 96c
Tel. (9626) 464466n-4644381/85 - Telefax:46449141464224A7Cable: NPC Jo Telex: 21319 NPC lo. XP.O.Oox 555 Amnman 11118 Jordan
E-MaiL mop@mop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                 LI.,LA1I a^1J '&        i
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                       1AAW-01 ii
AMMAN                  '      m\Po
Ref.No. . ....... ..... ..
IDate  ...... fi................................... ._, X_,............. .. ............ 1
,,,,., ......-  .
The Governmenkt recognizes that active private sector participation in
the projects includedl in the program is one of the key conditions for its
success, and the engine for sustainable real economic growth. Consequently,
the program aims to provide an enabling legislative, institutional, and
regulatory frameworkc to allow for accelerated privatization of many public
enterprises, and the implementation of major private projects in various
sectors, such as powe;, telecommunications, mining, transport, and water.
In line with th. Social and Economic Transformation Program, the
Government is modernmizing the educational system by adopting a new
curriculum development process capable of meeting contemporary world-
class  standards.  Moreover, we   are integrating  information  and
communication technologies (ICT) into the learning process through
developing the neces sary infrastructure to enable e-learning, developing the
Jordanian educational network, and providing more computers to students.
In parallel, and in ots endeavor to turn bold the vision of Mis Majesty King
Abdullah II to make Jordan a regional IT hub, we have opened many
information technolog,r community centers, particularly in the rural areas.
In the health area, the program emphasizes the importance of improving
the quality of health services provided to Jordanian citizens, through
upgrading health facil ities and equipment, developing a health information
system, and providini; skill development programs for doctors and nurses,
and moving towards results-oriented budgeting in health programs
The program paw s considerable attention to poverty alleviation and
improving the quality of life in rural areas. In this regard, the program aims
at expanding the finane,ial services to small and micro enterprises, providing
business counseling aInd training services, putting the Family Income
Supplement Program into effect, restructuring the National Aid Fund,
developing a geographic map of poverty areas, and building an
electronically-linked poverty information system.
Tel. (9626) 4A446670-4644381/85 - Telfa :4649341-4642247-Cable: NPC Jo -Telk: 21319 NPC Jo. -P.O.Box 555 Anuan 11118 Jw1=
E-Mail: moplmop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                   dLbJI                        jJUIi   ;L. J
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN
Ref.No..            .....                                   ........ ..........- ...
D ate   .   .......................... ..,
D    Stronger Focua on Public Sector Reform:
All these efforts attest to the solid progress we have made in stabilizing
the economy, introducing market-oriented reforms, and integrating Jordan
into the world economy. However, the process of reform is not yet
completed. In keepinlg with the practices in most countries, the reform of the
core ptblic sector i3 needed to underpin and reinforce the reform process
engaged in other areas. The country must increase its ability to provide
effective public services to businesses and households as well as implement
efficiently, on a day-to-day basis, the massive regulatory and legislative
changes its has effected.
Because the Government realized that administrative tefonns were
indispensable to achieve socioeconomic transformation, those reforms were
founded and born out within the framework of the new social and economic
vision the Government started articulating in 1999 with the involvement and
the support of H.M. the King. Due to this fact, these reforms have formed a
main pillar of the Social and Economic Transformation Program, and are
contributing to a new approach to public sector reform that is sound,
comprehensive, and rsalistic. While it recognizes the need for more action in
many areas if reforni is to fiurther succeed, the approach is flexible, tackling
areas where the oppartunities best present themselves. It unfolds logically
within a wider p4irspective of economic and institutional changes,
particularly over the frst stage, where it exhibits a high degree of ownership,
and enjoys full unequivocal support from His Majesty the King. The
program is a homegrown initiative that reflects local realities.
Modern public services and regulations are key to an efficient, investor-
friendly business environment, just as an effective judiciary is key to
resolving private disrutes. But Jordan also pressingly needs better public
'4;,YI 11 % iA^ ,)L&   NPC       NK 1:r  .,     P   -,# -l r _ao:,$ st1 5 l/.t AU/e 1-
Tc. (9626) 4644466/70-44381185 - Telef;x: 4649341-4642247. Cable: NPC Jo Telex: 21319 NPC lo. P.O.BoX 555 Amman 11118 irdan
E-Mail: mopU?mop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM           i -L,JI "
OF JORDAN
M   MSTRY OF PLANNING            ,j 
Ref.o.   -AAN
Date..... -........-.............i
..-. 43 W II
services if it is to respond to the social needs of its citizens. It needs a civil
service that is more efficient, productive, and responsive, fully capable of
reducing to a minimum the bureaucratic burdens the citizens have to cope
with. It needs to menage public financial resources in ways that promote
efficient, transparent, and accountable use of public funds, lead to better
planning, and provide better oversight of how public money is spent
Until now, Jord3n has reformed its public sector functions in areas of
immediate complemeitarity to its trade policy and economic framework
legislation, including privatization, customs, and a limited range of services
to business. The tim's has now come to modernize, and in depth, the core
public sector because this is being increasingly required by the opeting of
the economy and perbaps more importantly increasingly demanded by
citizens and businesseio at large.
As stated before, the Govermnent identified key areas where reform
was needed in the medium term, notably:
* Raising the efficiency of public services and improving their
accessibility and quality.
* Modernizing financial management and budgetary processes to
maximize ac'ountability for results.
*   Transforming human resources management in the public sector,
with civil servants operating in a performance-led environment.
*   Strengthening transparency and accountability in all aspects of the
state operations.
* Developing tie use of information technology as a focal point of
the growth sirategy based significantly on better human resources.
The Government is committed to continuing its efforts in reforming the
public sector functions in the areas stated below, to produce a public service
Tel. (9626) 46~0 4644381/85 Telefax:4649341-4642247 Cable:NICJo -Telex; 21319 NPCo. - P.O.Box 555 Anman 1111 jxm
E-Mail: mop0mop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                                   ; 
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                              -
AMMAN                      4-'cb
Date .........    ......                                      ..._._.....
D a te  ..................................................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ._ ... ................................................. ig
system, which is it ore productive and responsive to changes that will help
create an efficient investor- friendly business environment.
The Government recognizes the challenge in designing and pursing
public sector reforn, which is complex and long term, involving the whole
of government in    wide-ranging initiatives.  While most of the work
necessarily involves specific departments, there ,is nonetheless value in
having an interminie;trial structure both to provide guidance and impulse
and to foster cross fertilization, learning, and synergies. In addition to a
series of implementation committees or commissions with membership from
various departments, the Government is also establishing an Interministerial
Coordinating Committee for Public Sector Reform chaired by the Minister
of Planning.
The Governmer!t's public sector reform program coves four key areas,
as outlined below:
I) Civil Service andAdministrative Reform:
The goal of this component is to improve the quality of government
services, both by cre ating a Civil Ser-vice that functions more on merit and
performance and b) simplifying or streamlining government agencies
responsible for deliveiing services to the public.
Tangible progrea.s has been achieved in this field over the past 2 years.
This includes the approval of the Civil Service Bylaw by the Cabinet (which
will sharpen the focus on merit and perftrmance, at all levels), establishment
of the Ministry of AdIministrative Development with a mandate to draw the
general policy for administrative development and to improve the
organizational structuwe of the public administration, publication of service
directories in 25 public depaltments and simplification or streamlining of
procedures in 40 public departments, which aim to facilitate the public's
MAjaaI                \\\aN  I o%.% NPC    vtvYtV-Iov%rtN(\? ,S   IN idtLVIA .-2EttTAI/A. s X6
Td. "626)464 466f7O4644381S5 - Telefax: 464941-4642247-Cablv: NPC Jo Telex: 21319NPC Jo. . P.OBox S55 Amman 11118 Jodan
E.Mail: mopomop.gov,jo



THE HASHEM1TE KINGDOM                                           LLa4J&Ii-J.aJ
OF JORDAN
MINSTRY OF PLANNING 
Ref .No AMMAN 
Ref.N o .   ........ .... ............                      ... . ......  ....  .. .   ._ ....  - -   , 11
Date .. . -. -.............. ................... ..........  . ............... . . .   l
access to govemment services, finalization ofjob descriptions for 58 public
departments (coverirng some 175,000 civil servants), electronic posting of
job openings and the pool of eligible applicants, training of managers in
English and computer skills, and dissolution of redundant agencies (namely
the Administrative Control and Inspections Bureau).   Actions on e-
govemment, noted below, reinforce these measures.
The actions the Government intends to take in the near term (over the
coming 1-2 years) to 'consolidate and extend these initial-measures include:
* Measures t(i assure full implementation of the new Civil Service
Bylaw, conplemented by the establishment of a centized,
computerized human resource information and administration
system, skills training for all managers, and formulation of a draft
action plan For pay reform.
* Process simplification and streamlining - including adoption of
appropriate service standards in at least 15 additional government
agencies, ini-luding investment promotion and procurement
* Adoption o:f a govemment-wide protocol for service delivery
surveys, anti conducting such surveys in at least five additional
government agencies.
* Extending tIte use of E-government, including e-mail and internet,
to seven governmenit institutions.
In addition, the Government intends to establish an Innovation Fund,
within its 2003 budge-t, to encourage and help line agencies to design and
implement administralive reforms, train staff, and build needed institutional
capacities.
Tcl.  464)6l-4644381/85 Tefax t:4649:41-4642247-Cable NPC JoTelex: 21319 NPC o.P.O.BoxS55A AMMia 11.8Jtwdan
E-Mail: mopemop.gov.Jo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                 X
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING            ,    i                           1  IJj
AMMAN
D ateN  ............ .  ........  ......                 ... .  ..   .. . ............... ..... ,1
DateN....... -. -                                                         PIl
2) Budgetary and Financial Management Reform:
The budget prlCess has functioned well in the past decade to assure
fiscal discipline, wliich has allowed the Goverment to introduce many
reforms aiming at strengthening the link between sector policies and
resource allocation to raise the efficiency of budgetary management.
However, more reforms are needed in this area including more rigorous
medium-term   results-oriented  budget programming  and  improved
institutional arrangements for investment selection  and budgeting.
Specifically, the implementation of the Social and Economic Transformation
Program caLs for en}hancing the efficiency of investment programming.
To begin laying the foundation for a substantial move in this direction,
the Government is committed to several concrete actions over the next 1-2
years, including:
* StrengtheniLg the framework for budget preparation by issuing the
budget circular for 2003 before the end of July 2002, including
medium termn projections of aggregate govemment expenditures,
together with initial ministerial expenditure ceilings for 2003,
vetted by C abinet. To facilitate the work of line ministries, the
govermmenl will align instructions in the circular with the move
towards mcdium term, policy-based budget preparation and will
assure that subsequent circulars are issued in a timely fashion, as
early as possible before July of the preceding year. In addition, to
begin to imLprove the reliability of the medium-term expenditure
framework, the Government intends to formulate medium-term
expenditure programs in at least the health and education
ministries, wvhich will help frame preparation of the 2004 budget,
and is takizig steps to improve revenue forecasting, and building a
macroeconomnic model at the Ministry of Planning (expected by
the end of June 2002).
>S \\ \AaI o,_ -.NPC flrss,..j.NPCUjp. - tNC Vt_V-.t Tyi_  :T tCU ;...
Tel (96)464446600.464438I5 . Telefax: 464S341-4642247 Cable: NPC lo -Tekx: 21319 NPC Jo. - P.O.Box 555 Anmun 11118 ladan
E-Mail: mop@mop.govJo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                 ,t 1J                     I ;     .L.4JI
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                         1      jljj
AMMAN                      t                           o
Ref.No  .   ... -                                                            '
fNo............. ...-...I.,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,..... .... .
Date . ...............................................
_.,... .. ...........iJ
* Increasing the focus on performance and results in public spending
by impletenting a pilot results-oriented budgeting in the
immunization program of the Ministry of Health in 2003, and
extending this pilot approach to more programs during 2004.
Recognizing that introducing this approach is a complex task, the
Governmeiit will pay close attention to the definition of
appropriate indicators, to the design of adequate monitoring and
evaluation systems - including involvement of service users, and
to articulation of the links between the efficiency and effectiveness
of prograni design and execution and the allocation of future
budget reso irces.
* Improving the technical basis for the budget preparation process,
for examplt by setting up a comprehensive database of investment
projects at the Ministry of Planning, establishing procedures to
improve thc projections of and budgeting for recurrent costs of
projects.
* Setting an intermal committee at the Ministry of planning to
coordinate the decision-making process on projects in different
sectors.
* Strengtheninlt the institutional capacity for budget preparation
both by enlancing the dialogue between core anid line ministries
and by formulating a program designed to improve capacities for
medium-term, results-oriented budgeting in line ministries.
3) Judicial Reform:
We recognize the fact that the legal framework and justice system are
key factors in attracting domestic and foreign private investment. We have
undertaken many efforts in the last couple of years on the legislative level
to place Jordan on an equal footing with its business partners. The
4;.VYV %A% \lA u   O" - eM  il VIY,pt .-t9 NM ! -:~  _5s-Le  i  (o-A,_) (It L Ma/y- -10I LTAI/Aa . L
Tel. (9626) 4644466170-4644381iU . Tlefax : 4649341-4642247- Cable; NPC Jo- Telex; 21319 NPC Jo. - P.O.Box S55 Amman 11118 Jordai
E-Mail: mopamop.gov.jo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                 ib                         j;       441
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING             , &-                                J
AMMAN
Ref.No .   .   ..... ..........
D ate  .... ............. ..... ............... ..... - . ,1
............... .. ........  l
Arbitration Law was enacted to reduce delays in the judicial process, a new
procedural case management was adopted to enhance the efficiency of the
system and reduce :he transaction costs on citizens and businesses, the new
cunricula for the . Judicial Institute was adopted to meet international
standards, and training courses for judges in English and computer
applications are being held regularly to expedite the use of the e-
government and itnprove communication with foreign investors. In
addition, the Goveimment introduced an evolutionary salary scale and an
improved pension scheme for judges and hired 80 additional judges. As for
the near term (1-2) years actions, the Govemment intends to embark on:
* Developiag a strategic plan for legal and judicial system.
* Pursuing efforts to build capacity and increase efficiency in the
court system.
* Strengthening the procedures and capacity to enforce judicial
decision..
* Widening and easing access to legal and judicial information
4) E-government initiative:
Like many cotmtries in the world, Jordan has taken a high-level
decision that imprnved citizen services are key not only to a better
informed and morm engaged citizenry, but also to its international
competitiveness. The Jordanian e-Government Initiative, launclhed in
September 2000, is focusing on both the "e", or the provision of services
electronically, and tie "g", or government that is seen as a service provider
to citizens. More than a project or program, the Jordanian e-Government
Iitiative is a national agenda, bearing the slogan "your government at your
service". The first .teps to institutionalize e-Govermncnt have been taken
with the creation  of a Ministry of Information and Communications
Technology (MoICT). This new entity has been made responsible for the
implementation of the initiative throughout Jordaln. The initial approach has
been on two tracks:
Tel. (9626)4644466/704644381/5 - Telefax 4649414642247- Cak NPC lJo- Telex: 21319 NPC Jo. - P OBx 555 Ama13 Jo g  IIIIn
E-MnITh znoP@nop.g0v,Jo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                 i>                        .&.a3,Uii:< .4JI
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN
RefNo     .     ............ Jl
Date ._  ...........                                           _   . .. ... ........
* Developing a long tern strategy to create the building blocks of
e-Govercmment. A Bluepriit and Roadmap have been developed
and are guiding the implementation. Leading this initiative is a
Program Management Unit, at the MoICT, that is managing the
delivery cf e-Govemment services nationwide.
* Delivering electronic services designed as "proof of concept"
exercises. To date, two e-Services have been successfully
completedl  (telecommunications  licensing  and  business
registraticn), and 5 additional services are currently being
scoped  for implementation  (including  the  income taX
department, general sales tax departnent and the land use and
survey department).
As a first phase of roll-out, over 10 govermment agencies are being
connected via a secute private network, with email functionality introduced
across the participating agencies. A portal for e-Government is also under
development. Additional elements for successful delivery of e-Services are
working in parallel, i.3cludijig legislative reform (the introduction of the
electronic transactions law), public access channels (the establishment of
over 20 IT commtunity centers), and training programs for government
employees.
The above actions, in the four components, are at or near fuition. c
However, implementing this program will require resources, especially at a
time when expenditure restraint is being vigorously pursued. This has meant
careful prioritization and demonstrates the importance the government
attaches to the public sector reform program. For the reform of the judicial
sector, the budgetary resources have already been allocated: they are
substantial because of the need for capital investments in court buildings,
information technology and the promotion of human resources. In the other
components, resources required have been more modest, because of the
incremental nature of Ihe reforms and. The coming year will see a prudent
Tcl (9626) 44746443h1185 - Telefax .46493114642247- Cable: NPC JOb Telex: 21319 NPC Jo.. P.O.BOX 555 Amnuat 11118 Jcdaa
E-Mail: mopomop.govjo



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                      L                   i:,JJ   a41JI
OF JORDAN
MINISTTY OF PLANNING              &                               t 5% 
AMMAN
Ref.No . . ..                                             ..
D ate  ............   ............................_.
expansion of resou.-ces devoted to the other reform areas, and a continued
emphasis on mobilizing internal resources not only to economize but to
build long-lasting ownership Donor grants, especially in technical
assistance, will also be vigorously sought.
As you can appreciate, the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan is firmly comnmitted to the program it has designed and published for
public sector reform outlined above and it would welcome the World Bank's
assistance. A pronammatic loan would provide us with the budgetary
flexibility that would1 enable us to implement fundamental structural changes
in the public sectoi while continuing to maintain the successes achieved in
stabilizing and opening the economy. Such a loan would help Jordan
manage the particular risks it faces within the surrounding political and
economic environment and would thus help sustain the competitive position
of the Jordanian ecotnomy and therefore the welfare of its citizens.
Please accept my high esteem and consideration
Sincerely,
Bassem Awadallah
Minister of Planning
Thl. (9626) 4644466170-4644381,45 - Telefax: 464!3414642247. Cable: NPC Jo - Telex: 21319 NPC Jo. - P.O.BoX 555 Amman III18 Jordat
E-NkMalmop@MoP.go)vjo



Annex m
Improving Public Services in Jordan
1. Introduction:
A recurrent public complaint on the part of the Jordanian public regards excessive time requirements
associated with delivery of even the most basic public services. For example, for a child to change a
school, the parent will have to visit six different departments, with procedures lasting as long as
thirty days. There are occasionally complaints of arbitrariness in the delivery of public services,
reflecting  the fact that the same service in different locations typically requires different
documentation, supporting documents, and numbers of signatures, in each case requiring the visit of
many offices and many return visits. In many cases, the process is so cumbersome that the requestor
chooses to hire a facilitator to carry out the process on his or her behalf.
Starting 1999, the Jordanian authorities have implemented an aambitious program aimed at
investigating and addressing these public complaints in a cost-efficient, but significant way.
A preliminary investigation revealed that government departments tended not to have precise
information regarding which services they were supposed to provide, or guidelines on how those
services were meant to be provided. This left much discretion to the individual civil servant who in
the best situation had to rely on word of mouth and or tradition to determine which procedure to
follow or what document to seek from the citizen. Some services required excessive bureaucracy,
with steps being added as a result of practice, turf, or other internal requirements generally unrelated
to the service itself.
Fixing this problem therefore entailed acting along three separate tracks: first identify and document
services, and simplify procedures; second, improve public information regarding these procedures
among both civil servants and the public at large; and third, improve each department's day-to-day
interaction with the public to ensure that the citizen is able to obtain public services in a timely,
efficient and orderly fashion.
This note highlights the approach taken by the Jordanian authorities in terms of the first track of
simplifying procedures, including the methodology and implementation, examples of the tangible
results achieved thus far, and the steps planned for the future.
2. Simnlifying Drocedures
a. Approach
Starting with several key departments, with more interaction with the public, each department
appointed a focal team which would be in charge of putting together the simplification proposals. As
a result, a taskforce of about 200 employees was created. The idea was to create a corps of change
agents throughout government to help overcome resistance and ensure that reforms are carried out.
At the same time, a supervisory committee composed of high-level senior employees from all
relevant departments, as well as representatives of the private sector and NGOs, was established to
oversee the work of these focal teams and to approve their recommendations for implementation. It
is further in charge of the general framework for implementation and follows up and evaluates the
whole program.
A small group of specialists, under the supervision of the Minister of Administrative Development,
focused on training this taskforce on the philosophy and methodology of the exercise. They
thereafter acted as facilitators for the focal teams, intervened when necessary on the day-to-day



Annex Im
implementation of the action plan, and provided training when needed, assistance, and direction for
the focal teams in the government departments. Focal teams were asked to provide recommendations
which would have a significant positive impact on the user of the service (i.e. the public at large)
especially in terms of reducing the time required to obtain a service. As a result they focused on
reducing the distance traveled and other criteria which are likely to affect the processing time of
each procedure. They were asked to focus on areas which lacked clarity, simplicity, and legitimacy
but to remain practical in ensuring that the changes could be implemented quickly and would not
negatively impact on the overall quality of service provided. Finally they were asked to look into
potential areas of decentralization, ensuring that local offices deal with clients where possible, rather
than having the central administration doing the whole process.
Each department's focal team was then asked to define the services it delivered. They were asked to
specify the name of service, the target audience (recipients), the number of procedures associated
with each service, and the expected time to obtain it. It was further asked to estimate the physical
distance in terms of steps and stairs that would be required of each applicant to get a service, the
number of different civil servants an applicant would have to deal with, and number of sections or
departments involved in responding to an applicant.
The teams documented the current process for each department, which constituted the benchmark for
improving the processes. The focal teams, with the help of the facilitator who assured a coherent
methodological approach, embarked in the process of simplifying those steps. The first task focused
on those procedures and steps for which there was no basis either in the law or the regulations
associated with the delivery of those services. This entailed looking at the regulations relative to
each service, focusing on the essence and the purpose of each procedure, and recommending the
outright suppression of a step, combining several procedures within the same office, and even
changing the agency floor plan and lay-out to allow for more efficient delivery of services.
The second task focused on reviewing regulations to ensure that the steps were still necessary, given
the change in technology or even the changing circumstances of public administration. Any step that
did not require Council of Ministers approval for modification was identified and reviewed. The
focal teams in each of the departments then prepared recommendations for appropriate action where
necessary.
The focal teams submitted their recommendations to the supervisory committee for approval.
b. Results
The process of evaluating the procedure simplification and streamlining is ongoing and is obtaining
encouraging early results, including the potential for very important gains in efficiency (see Table 1).
But this is only a first step. The new procedures are now being tested on the ground, and the actual
gains are being evaluated. This process requires constant supervision in terms of implementation,
monitoring and further review. Furthermore, a system to integrate the client's feedback for
subsequent improvements must be further developed. One approach is the use of service delivery
surveys to evaluate client satisfaction and these are being undertaken in several pilot departments.
The results will be made public and will help refine and focus the improvement of the process.



Annex III
Table 1
IMPACT OF PROCEDURE SIMPLIFICATION IN JORDAN (SELECTED EXAMPLES)
INCOME TAX DEPARTMENT            BEFORE SIMPLIFICATION           AFTER SIMPLIFICATION               IMPACT ON THE
Service                                                                                             CLIENT
No. of       Time of             No. of procedures  Time of        Time of
Procedures  implementation                         Implementation  implementaffon
(minutes)                             (minutes)       (minutes)
Opening a new taxpayer file      13           45                 9                 21               -58%
Issuing a tax number certificate   1         8                  4                 4                -50%
Issuing a tax statement          7            5                  2                 2                -40%
Paying taxes (whether in full or  20          40                  10               25
installments)
Notice of protest of tax estimation  12       30                  5                23               -23%
Estimating lump sum tax          17           80                  5                40               -50%
Clearance Certificate            23           45                 9                 20               -56%
Release mortgages of fixed and   54           95                 20                32               -66%
current assets
Presenting a self-estimate of tax  20         33                  12               28               -15%
burden                                       I_I_I                                                     _I
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY &           BEFORE SIMPLIFICATION           AFTER SIMPLIFICATION               IMPACT ON
TRADE                                                                                               THE CLIENT
Service
No. of       Time of             No. of procedures  Time of         Time of
Procedures  implementation                         Implementation   implementation
(minutes)                             (minutes)
Registering Industrial company   6            15                  6                 10               -33%
Registering of personal company  16           20                  10                10               -50%
Registration of trade mark for a  16          20                  10                10               -50%
personal company 
Registration of trade mark       18           20                  10               25
Registration of commercial agency  24         1 working day       10                15               -97%
Registration of partnerships and  10          60                  8                 10               -83%
limited partnership companies
Registration of limited          16           30                  9                 15               -50%
responsibility company                    .






Annex IV
Structural Reform in Jordan, 1989-2001
Structural reform programs in Jordan encompassed domestic taxation/subsidy policies, trade
policies, monetary/financial sector policies, exchange rate policies, administered prices and privatization.
The reforms initiated since 1989 have given Jordan one of the best policy environments in the Middle-
East and North Africa. It is notable that Jordan has moved steadily forward in reforms in the last 12 years
despite several changes in government and adverse external shocks throughout the 1990s.
In domestic taxation, the narrowly based, small consumption tax has been replaced first with a 7
percent General Sales Tax in 1994, which was raised to 10 percent in 1995, and which in turn was
replaced with a 13 percent VAT in 2001. As a result, indirect tax revenues, as a ratio of GDP, have
doubled from 8 percent in 1989 to 16 percent in 2000, which compares well with other lower-middle
income countries. Food and fodder subsidies have been eliminated and energy prices have been brought
in line with international prices. In direct taxation, the number of tax bands have been cut from ten to six
and the maximum individual income tax rate has been brought down to 30 percent from 45 percent in
1995 and further lowered to 25 percent in 2001. Corporate tax rates have been reduced from 38-55
percent to 15-35 percent in 1995.
In trade reforms, Jordan moved since 1987-88 from a 40 percent coverage ratio for NTBs, a 34
percent weighted average tariff rate, and a 26 percent tariff dispersion to virtually no significant non-tariff
barriers, a 13.5 percent weighted average tariff rate, and a tariff dispersion of 13 percent. Most of the
capital goods (since 1999) and intermediate goods (since 2000) enter with zero import duties. Customs
administration procedures have been improved with adoption of the ASCUDA system for the valuation of
imports since 1997. Also notable are the declaration of Aqaba as a special economic zone to provide a -
world class environment for private investors and creation of six Qualifying Industrial Zones elsewhere
that promote joint Jordanian-Israeli-Palestine quota and duty free exports to United States.
In monetary policy instruments, Jordan has moved progressively away from being a financially
repressed economy with direct controls on credit and interest rates to a mature, liberalized one where
indirect controls play the lead role. Deposit and lending rates are set by market conditions since 1990, the
CBJ issues certificates of deposits since 1993 to control domestic liquidity, reserve requirements have
been unified across deposit types and institutions, the CBJ started overnight deposit and repurchase
agreements with commercial banks since 1998 to stimulate the inter-bank market, and regular auctions of
Treasury Bills are used to set benchmark interest rates since 1999.
In foreign exchange market, Jordan has witnessed substantial liberalization. Jordan ended its dual
exchange rate system and adopted a basket peg (the five currencies of the SDR with Jordan specific trade-
partner weights) from 1989 to 1995 and a US dollar peg afterwards. The distinction between resident and
non-resident accounts ended in 1996. Residents are allowed to hold foreign currency accounts. Full
capital account convertibility is in force since 1997.
In the area of administered prices, key utility prices such as for water, electricity and petroleum
products have been revised upward. Water prices were quadrupled in 1994. Electricity prices were raised
by 12 percent in the same year. More recently, though Jordan receives all of its oil products from Iraq
under a generous subsidy, oil product prices have been increased by between 15 and 47 percent to bring
them more in line with world oil market trends.
In privatization, Jordan began in a small way (US$ 102 million) in 1998 with the divestiture of
Jordan Cement Factories Corporation, but moved quickly to a massive (US$ 508 million) sale of the
Govemment's 40 percent share in Jordan Telecommunication Corporation in 2000. Close to US$ 1
billion, or, 12 percent of GDP, has been realized in privatization proceeds in transactions through 2001



Annex IV
with several more transactions (airline, electricity, mining, water companies) worth more than a billion
dollars waiting to be taken to the market in the coming years.



Annex V
Paris Club Debt Rescheduling Agreements with Jordan
In 1989, Jordan's public debt was rescheduled for the first time with the Paris Club official creditors.
Since then, Jordan's debt has been rescheduled four more times, every two or three years, with the total
amount adding up to US$ 3.7 billion. Following the Paris Club principles, the debt treated for
cancellation and rescheduling has only included debt contracted by Jordan before January 1, 1989, and
each negotiation has only concerned debt service due in the near future.
The first two debt reschedulings were made on so-called Classic terms, in which all credits, whether
classified as official development assistance (ODA) or not, are rescheduled at the appropriate market rate,
with a repayment profile negotiated on a case-by-case basis. As of 1994, however, Jordan has benefited
from rescheduling on Houston terms, which generally apply to severely indebted lower middle-income
countries with a relatively high share of official bilateral debt in their debt stock. On Houston terms, non-
ODA credits are rescheduled at the appropriate market rate over around 15 years with 2-3 years grace and
with payments rising progressively. ODA credits are rescheduled at an interest rate at least as favorable
as the original concessional interest rate applying to these loans, over 20 years with a maximum 10 years
of grace. Houston terms also include the possibility for creditor countries to conduct, on a bilateral and
voluntary basis, debt swaps with the debtor country. The last two reschedulings, in 1997 and 1999, were
undertaken conditional upon, and in support of, Jordan's consecutive programs with the IMF in 1996 and
1999.
The dates, amounts and terms of rescheduling agreements on both concessional debt (ODA) and non-
concessional have been as follows:
Debt consolidation on Classic terms, including payment arrears
* July 19, 1989, US$ 586 million, 9 years maturity with 5 years grace period (this has now been
fully repaid)
* February 28, 1992, US$ 771 million, 19 years maturity with 10 years grace period for ODA, 14
years maturity with 8 years grace period for non-ODA debt.
Debt consolidation on Houston terms, including payments arrears and previouslW rescheduled debt
* June 28, 1994, US$ 1,147 million, 19 years maturity with 9 years grace period (ODA), 17 years
maturity with 2 years grace period (non-ODA).
*  May 23, 1997, US$ 400 million, 19 years maturity with 10 years grace period (ODA), 14 years
maturity with 3 years grace period (non-ODA).
* May 20, 1999, US$ 821 million, 20 years maturity, 10 years grace period (ODA), 18 years
maturity, 3 years grace period (non-ODA).
New rescheduling negotiations between Jordan and the Paris Club are to take place around mid-2002.






ANNEX VI
Jordan at a glance                                                         5t31tO2
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       & North  middle-
Jordan    Africa   Income     Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                    5.0      296     2,046                Ufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)               1,750     2,040    1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   8.8      602     2,327
Average annual growth, 1995-01
PopulaUon (%)                                      3.0       2.0      10
Labor force (X)                                    4.1       2.8      1.3     GNI               9,          Gross
per   ~           ~primary
Most recent estimate Oatest year available, 1995-01)                          capita       .             enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  12     .
Urban population (% of tota population)             75       59        42
lie expectancy at birth (years)                    71        68        69
Infant mortaiity (per 1,000 lIve births)            26       44        32
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)            5         ..      11         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  96     89        80
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 1.5.)                10       35        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  71    95       114             Jordan
Male                                              70       102      116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                            72       88       114    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991     2000     2001
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                         4.4     4.2       8.5      8.8
Gross domestic investmentGDP              45.4    25.9      27.2     25.9                    Tmd
Exports of goods and servicestGDP         43.0    59.5      41.8     44.2                    rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                -8 7     2.6       0 5      1.0                      r
Gross national savlngstGDP                42.2    15.0      27.9     26.3
Current account balancetGDP               -0.9   -10.1       0.7      0.4     Domestic
Interest paymentstGDP                      2.1     6.7       3.5      3.5     DomesUc-7-- i investment
Total debt/GDP                            S1.5   227.7      94.4     89.0     savngs
Total debt service/exports                10.1    24.2      12.3     12.1
Present value of debt/GDP                   ..      ..        ..     85.0
Present value of debt/exports               ..      ..        ..    118.1
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01   2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                               1.5      4 5     4.0       4.2      5.7            -Jordan
GDP per capita                    2.5      1.0     0.9       1.2      3.0              Lower-middle-Income group
Exports of goods and servIes      4.5      2.5     2.1       7.9      5.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991     2000     2001      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                    3
Agrculture                                 6.1     8.5       2.2      2.1     3.
Industry                                  29.8    26.2      24.8     24.7
Manufacturing                           14.5     13.7      15.6     15.3 
Services                                  64.1    65.3      73.0     73.2      -f                   99    00   01
Private consumption                       77.7    71.4      74 5     76.0    40
General govemment consumption             31.1    26.0      25.1     23.0                   GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services             97.2    82.8      68.6     69.0
(average annuial growth)               1981-91  1991-01    2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports
Agriculture                                8.5    -3 2       7.1             20
Industry                                  -0.5     4.3       3.8       ..    15
Manufacturng                             0.7      5.4       5.6       ..   1s
Services                                   1.6     5 0       4.9       ..     5
Private consumption                       -0.1     4.8      10.9      6.1     0
General govemment consumption              0.6     5.0       6.8     -4.6     -     9D         9D   99   00    01
Gross domestic investment                 -2.4     1.7      10.6     -0.9                 Exports  -l    Impons
Imports of goods and services             -0.3     2.5      14.5      3 4
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX VI
Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1981    1991      2000     2001      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      9
Consumer prices                             7.7      8.2       0.7      18 e
Implicit ODP deflator                      18.9      5.1      -0.1      0.3     4
Govemment finance                                                               2    v\     _/4
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             0      i     i 
Current revenue                            49.1     448       29.8     30.4    .2      g    97                      01
Current budget balance                     22.5     13.1       1.0      2.7              -GDP deflator   0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     7.2      8 3      -4 7     -3.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1981    1991      2000     2001      Export end Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         734    1,132     1,899    2,293     3000
Food                                      100      126       164      191     e,ooo
Phosphates                                166      181       128      130     4.000
Manufactures                              215      403       933    1,269
Total imports (cifl                       3,170    2,512     4,577    4,812     2.0i0
Food                                      508      613       747      733     zOC
Fuel and energy                           533      355       718      702     1.000
Capital goods                            1,256     369     1,313     1,311       0
9s   Go  97   98   99   00   01
Export price index (1995-100)                88      87        91       92
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                  124      97       106      108                M Exports    flImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    71       89       86        85
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(U.8$ mi'llions)                           1981    1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,909    2,484     3,536    3,899     6.-
Imports of goods and services             4,215    3,429     5,796    6,094     e 
Resource balance                          -2,306    -945    -2,260   -2,195
Net income                                   87     -362       *27       9      2
Net current transfers                     2,178     884      2,345    2,218     0 I
Current account balance                     -41     -423       59       32      2
Financing items (net)                        -5     397       622     -270     -4
Changes In net reserves                      47      26       -681     237      4.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$nulilions)    1,300    1,112     3,430    3,192
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)             0.3      0.7       0.7      0 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991     2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,291    9,550     7,978    7,856
IBRD                                       45     511       856      941    |               710     A. 4
IDA                                        78      76        57       55                  0         A 4
Total debt service                          316      739      723       770                                 c 4a9
IBRD                                        3      97       108       106        F 1,020
IDA                                         1       2         3        3
Compositon of net resource flows                                                                              D '43
Officiai grants                           891     383       286      313
Official creditors                        305     417        -18      61
Private creditors                          29      -96      -115     -60
Foreign direct investment                  ..     -26       751       140
Portfolio equity                            0       0       104      -25                  E. e3,4a       
World Bank program
Commitments                                25      25        35       120     A IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              22      40        38       153     B - IDA  D - Other muLilaleral F - Private
Principal repayments                        0      56        59       60      c - IMF                     - Short-term
Net flows                                  22      -16       -20       93    ___
Interest payments                           3      43        52       49
Net transfers                              19     -59        -73       44
Development Economics                                                                                           5/31102



ANNEX VI
Jordan - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimate       Projected
Indicator             1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producte             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agicultre                           3.3     3.0     2.4     2.2     2.1     2.0     1.9    1.8
Industry                            25.2   25.5    25.6    24.8    24.7    23.4    23.2    23.0
Services                           71.6    71.5    72.0    73.0    73.2    74.6    74.9   75.1
TotalConsumptiem                     96.6    97.7    92.7   99.5    99.0    99.4   100.0    99.5
Gross donesticfixedinvestnent        25.5    21.1    23.5   25.6    25.9    24.9    24.7    25.0
Government investment               5.5     6.0     5.8     5.3     6.0     6.3     5.6    5.6
Private ivestment                   20.0   15.1    17.7    20.3    19.9    18.6    19.1    19.4
Exports (GNFS)b                      48.8    44.6    43.4   41.8    44.2    43.8    43.4    43.2
Imports (GNFS)                       70.8    64.0    61.3   68.6    69.0    69.7    69.6    69.3
Gross domestic savings                3.4     2.3     7.3    0.5     1.0     0.6     0.0     0.5
Gross nationalsavingsc               25.9    22.0    30.1   27.9    26.3    26.2    25.9    25.8
Memorandum items
Gross domesticproduct               7324    7959    8134    8451    8829    9563   10388   11185
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (JS$, Atlas method)   1590   1600    1630    1830    1830    1830    1930   2060
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domesticproductatmanlketprices  3.1   2.9     3.1     4.0     4.2     5.1     6.0     5.8
Gross DomesticIncome                 3.6    2.8     3.4     2.6     4.3     6.7     6.1     5.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic goduct at market prices  0.0  -0.2   0.0     0.9     1.2     2.2     3.3     3.2
Totalconsumption                     2.7    2.1     4.7     6.6     0.5     4.8     4.4     2.2
Private consumption                  1.7    4.0    -6.1     7.6     3.1     2.9     3.4     2.3
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNpS)b                     3572   3548    3534    3536    3899    4193    4504    4828
Merchandise FOB                   1836    1802    1832   1899    2293    2522    2718    2926
ImportS (GNFS)b                    5186    5090    4990    5796    6094   6665    7234    7750
MerchandiseFOB                    4099   3826    3699    4577    4812    5296    5751    6152
Resource balance                   -1613   -1542   -1456  -2260   -2195   -2472   -2730   -2922
Netcurrenttransfers                 1851    1702   2016    2345    2218    2524    2753    2826
Curnent account balance              29      22     405      59      32     -24     -41     -85
Netipnvateforeigndirectinvestrment   180     189     154    751      78     120     206     297
Long-terraloans (net)               -226     -93     -37   -361    -159     161     136      21
Offidal                             259     145    204     -18      61     278     152      78
Private                            -485   -238     -241    -343   -220    -117     -16     -57
Other capital (net, ind. carm & o=issions)  416  -598  238  233    -189    -374    -147    -142
Changeireservesd                    -400    480     -760   -681     237     118    -154     -92
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)         -22.0   -19.4   -17.9  -26.7   -24.9   -25.9   -26.3   -26.1
Real annual growth rates ( YR85 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)            2.9     4.0     4.2     8.5    19.1    5.7     7.3     8.2
Piimary                             -0.3    5.2    -5.8     7.1    39.1    6.9     5.3     5.8
Manufactures                        1.0     5.9    11.0    11.4    36.7    4.3     9.8    11.0
Merchandise imports (CI1)            -3.4   -5.9    -0.9    20.8    2.8    11.9     7.4     4.4
(Continued)



ANNEX VI
Jordan - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate        Projected
Indicator              1997   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at narket prices)'
Currentrevenues                      30.3   29.8    30.7    29.8    304      31.6   31.7    31A
Current expenditures                 29.4    29.9   28.4    28.7    28.4     29.2    30A    29.8
Currentaccountstrplus (+) ordeficit(-)  1.0  -0.1    2.3      1.0    2.0      2.4    1.3     1.6
Capital expenditure                   7.3     6.4    6.3     4.9     5.2     6.5     5.6     5.6
PoreignLfinancing                    -0.1     0.2    2.0     -1.4     1.5     0.5    0.1     0.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                              107.4   106.8   117.0   124.1   125.7   127.6   129.8  132.0
Growth of M2 (%)                      7.8     8.1    12.0    10.2    5.8     10.0    10.5    9.5
Private sectorcreditgrowth/         136.2    47.5   61.7    171.3    73.8    87.6   167.5   107.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR85 =100)
Merchandiseexpoxtpriceindex         100.0    94.4    92.1    88.0    89.2    92.8    93.2   92.7
Merchandisernportprice index        100.0    99.2   96.8     99.1   101.4    99.7   100.8   103.3
Merchandise terms of trade index    100.0    95.3    95.2    88.8    88.0    93.1    92.4    89.8
Realexchangerate(US$/LCU)t          111.8   116.6   117.3   123.0      ..
Consumerpniceindex (% change)         3.1     3.1    0.0      0.7     1.8     3.5     2.4     1.8
GDP deflator (% change)               1.1     5.6   -0.9     -0.1    0.3      3.1    2.5      1.8
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Inclades net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Inclades use of IMP resources.
e. Consolidated central government
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



ANNEX VI
Jordan - Selected Indicators Table
Base-case (most likely) projection
Actual                    Estimate                   Projection
1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004
Part A: Main Macro Aggregates
Annual growth rates, calculatedfrom constant 1985 price data
GDP (mp) per capita                                        0.0      -0.2       0.0       0.9       1.2       2.2      3.3       3.2
Total conrsumpuon per capita                               2.7       2.1      -4.7       6.6       0.5       4 8      4.4       2.2
GDP at market pnces                                        3.1       2.9       3.1       4.0       4.2       5.1      6.0       5 8
Total consumption                                         5.9       5.3      -1.7       9.9       3.4       7.7      7.2       4 7
Private consumption                                      4.9      7.2      -3.2      10.9       6.1       5.8       6.1      4.8
Gross domestic investment (GDI)                         -11.9     -11.2      20.0      10.6      -0.9       9.9       4.5      5 8
Gross dom. fixed mvestment (GDFD                        -8.5     -14.0      15.2      11.5      5.4       10.2      4.4       5.8
Exports (GNFS)                                             -2.8      1.4       0.9       2.1       7.9       5.2      5.6       5.8
of which Goods                                            2.9      4.0       4.2       8.5      19.1       5.7       7.3      8.2
Imports (GNFS)                                             -3.7     -0.3      -0.1      14.5       3.4      11.0      6.8       43
of which Goods                                           -3.4     -5.9      -0.9      20.8       2.8      11.9       7 4      4.4
Savings-inveshnent balances, as percentage of GDP
Gross Domestic investment                                 25.5      21.7      25 2      27.2      25.9      26.5      26.3     26.6
of which Government investment                            5.5      6.0       5.8       5.3       6.0       6.3       5.6      5 6
Foreign savings                                           -0.4      -0.3      -5.0     -0.7      -0.4       0.3       0.4       0 8
Gross national savings                                    25.9      22.0      30.1      27.9     26.3      26.2      25.9      25.8
Govenment savings                                         1.0     -0.1       2.3       1 0       2.0       2.4       1.3       1.6
Non government savings                                  24.9      22.0      27.8      26.9      24.2      23.9      24.6     24.2
Gross domestic savings                                     3.4       2.3       7.3       0.5       1.0       0.6       0.0      0.5
Other
GDP inflafion                                              1.1       5.6      -0.9      -0.1      0.3       3.1       2.5       1.8
Annual average exchange rate (LCU/US$)                     0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7
Indexrealaverageexchangerate(YR85=100)                   111.8     116.6     117.3     123.0       ..
Tems of trade index (YR85 =100)                           100.0     95.3      95.2      88.8      88.0      93.1      92.4     89.8
incremental capital-output ratio (GDI based)               9.4       8.4       6.8       6 2      6.3       4.9       4 3       4.4
Money growth                                               7.8       8.1      12.0      10.2      5.8      10.0      10.5       9.5
Part B: Government Finance Indicators
Percentage of GDP
Total revenues, of which                                  30.3      29.8      30.7      29.8      30.4      31.6      31.7     31.4
Tax revenues                                             15.4      15.2     15.3      16.1      16.3      16.0      19.1      19.6
Total expenditures, of which                              36.7      36.2      34.7      33 7     33.6      35.7      36.0      35.3
Consumption                                              17 3      18.4     16.9      16.9      16.9      18.7      19.4      19.3
Deficit(-YSurplus(+Y"                                     -6.4      -5.9      -3.5      -4.7     -3.7      -4.1      -4.3      -3.9
Fmnancing:                                                 6.4       6.4       4.0       3.9      3.2       4.1       4.3       3.9
Foreign                                                 -0.1        0.2      2.0      -1.4       1.5       0.5       0.1      0.2
Monetary sector                                          -1.2      9.8       1.8      -14        3.3      -1.6      -1.6      -1.5
Other domestic                                           7.6      -3.6       0.1       6.8      -1.6       5.2       5.8      5.3
Other
Total DebtVGDPmp                                         105 8     108.6     107.7     100 1     97.6       91.9     86.1      80 1
Total interest paymentsfTax revenues                      33.7      27.6      30.7      31.0     259        26.0     22.8      19.4
Part C: Debt & Liquidity Indicators
Toal DOD and TDS
DOD (USS millions)                                     8111.4    8417.1    8909.8    7977.9    7856.1    8013.1    8101.7    81418
DOD / GDPmp ratio                                       110.8      105.8    109.5      94.4      89.0      83.8      78 0     72.8
TDS (USS mallions)                                      898.8     888.5     525.7     723.0     770.0     852.9     928.7     951.9
TDS/exports(XGS)ratio                                     16.4      16.5      9.6      12.3      12.1      12.9      130       12.3
Total gross reserves (months'imports G&S)                  5.3       4.3       6.1       6.5      5.9        4.9      4.6       4.4
Part D: External Financing Plan
(US$, mUlions)
Private investment (net)                               361.0     382.0     239.0     854.4     -34.5     151.8     240.8     333.8
Net Long term borrowing excl IM                       -225.8      -93 0     -37 0    -360.8   -159.0     160.9     136.0      21.2
Adjustments to scheduled debt service                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
All other capital flows                                 235.2    -790.8     152.6     128.8    -76.1     -406.0   -181.5    -178.8
Financing Requirements (inci b{F)                        370.4    -501.8     354.6     6224     -269.7     -93.3     1953      176.3
of which current account deficit                       -29.3      -21.9   -404.9     -58.5     -32.2      24.2      41.3      84.7



ANNEX VI
Jordan - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                Estimate        Projected
Indicator                 1997   1998    1999    2000     2001    2002    2003    2004
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed        8111    8417    8910     7978    7856    8013    8102    8142
(TDO) (US$m)a
Totallong-termdebt(US$m)'             7363    7824    8035    7268     7146    7303    7392    7432
Short-Termi Debt                       748     594     875     710      710     710     710     710
Net disbursements (US$m)                 489      -90    461     -320      11      55      11     -55
Total debt service (TDS)                 899     889     526      723     770     853     929     952
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                              148.1   155.9   162.0    136.0   123.6   121.0   113.1   105.6
TDO/GDP                               110.8   105.8   109.5     94.4    89.0    83.8    78.0    72.8
TDS/XGS                                16.4    16.5     9.6     12.3    12.1    12.9    13.0    12.3
ConcessionaLITDO                       42.5    45.1    45.6    47.4     46.8    43.6    44.5    44.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                      13.4    12.9    22.8     16.0    13.8    11.1    15.9    16.5
Preferred creditor DS/public           25.9    25.6    52.7     39.7    42.5    43.4    42.1    41.8
DS (%)Y
IBRD DS/XGS                             2.1     2.0     2.1      1.8     1.7     1.4     2.1     2.0
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                       749     745     835      856     941    1044    1068    1110
IDA TDO (US$m)d                          65      62      60      57       55      52      50      47
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMP credits and net short-
tern capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances
c. Preferred creditors are defined as MBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the RAF, and the
Bank for Intemnational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



ANNEX VI
Jordan
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of May 16, 2002
Closed
Projects
IBRD/IDA-
Total Disbursed (Active)          123 0
of which has been repaid       5 1
Tota Disbursed (Closed)         1,686 2
ot whih has been repaid       924 8
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)  1,809 3
of which has been repaid      929.9
Total Undsbursed (Active)         126 8
Tota Undisbursed (Closed)          1.8
Total Undisbursed (Actve + Closed)  128 6
Active Prolects                                                                                        Difterence Between
Last PSR                                                  Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                Amount In USS Millions        Dlsbursements'"
Project ID  Project Name                    DO               Ysecal     IBRD   GRANT     Canel  Undlsb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
P049581   Community Infrastructure          S         S      1998       30.0      00               14.2     14.2      14.2
P005237   Gulf of Aqaba EAP                 HS        S      1996        0.0      27               0 1       -0.5      0.3
P039749   Health Sector Reform              S         S      1999       35.0      0.0             22.7       2.4       0.0
P005307   Human Res Devt.SIL                S         S      1995       600       0.0              8.1       81        58
P048521   Amman Water & Sanitation          S         S      1999       55 0      0 0             30.3      20.7       0 0
P069326   Higher Education Development      S         S      2000       34.7      00              30.0       48        0.0
P035997   Second Tounsm Dev                 S         S      1998       32.0      0.0              18.2     13.8       00
P049706   ODS Phaseout II                   S         S      1997        0.0      3.8               1.5      12        0 3
P052297   Training & Employment             S         S      1998        5.0      0.0               3.2      3 1       0.0
Total                                                                  251.7      6.5      0.0    128.5     67.8      20.6



Jordan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed PortfoUlo
As of March, 2002
IFC Data Warehouse                                                         (Amounts In US Dollar Millions)
IFC Held   -I                  C Disbursed -
FY Approval     Company           Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998            AIHC              0.00    3.60    0.00   0.00     0.00    3.60    0.00    0.00
1987/90193/95   Al Hikma          0.00    2.37    0.00   0.00     0.00    2.37    0.00    0.00
2001             Boscan Jordan    8.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            BTC               3.33    0.00    0.00   0.00     3.33    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            El-Zay            3.21    0.00    0.00   0.00     3.21    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002            IITPDC           12.50    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1995            Indo-Jordan      18.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998            JHTC              8.57    0.00    0.00   0.00     8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001             Jordan Gateway  10.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      3.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1998            Jordinvest        0.00    1.41    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1999            MAICO             0.00    1.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.75    0.00    0.00
2000             MEIB             0.00    2.20    2.15   0.00     0.00    0.00    2.15    0.00
2002             SIC              8.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996            Zara             13.76    2.97    0.00   0.00    13.76    2.97    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       85.38   13.54   2.15    0.00    61.88   11.09    2.15    0.00
I Approvals Pending Commitment I
FY Approval     Project Name      Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
2001             Boscan Jordan    0.00    1.00    0.00   0.00
Total Pending:         0.00    1.00    0.00   0.00
Note: Values do not reflect off-balance sheet items such as guarantee and risk managenent products.
Last Data Update: March 31,2002       Run Date: May 15,2002                              Page: lofl



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29234
_ g      j;6/o                   ~~~~~~~~370  ,' -"  j~ , 3a,                 39=
-         -@:' ,./ g 6' ur,"                                                3 t
_   ---.-   --    ---:.    <~#
0               '"""'-'     "-t --  -----        0\
-~~~~~~~~~~
3.30'',                                                         /,/'                   \                330
A1un       AI\ToAIJow
3f0         , 2AiSIil   K'    "t-.---.      L                                                                 310
TA  *fT"    '/              -      "   #L't 
300 (#-/1     ,-t   RnNoqIo '5/}    -o                     _S                 J   O  R D   A   N                  30-
(       .M 'KI-                           /                            *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
v  '  w  /                      a     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
. {Aqonq   '  \     /                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPRESSWAYS
V T  ---   AIMWdowworoht  /                                ~   ~~~~~~ROADS
MAFRAKs9s,,  RAILROADS
0        9     5        5         5MIE                            -e~        PERENNIAL RIVERS AND STREAMS    290
0     25    50    75   100   125 KILOMETERS                  ----o'--INTERMITTENT STREAMS AND WADIS
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank  -   -   -GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, colors, denominations and onyother information shown
on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bonk Group, any  - - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
udgment an the leglsttus of any territorym or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries
35.     31337                                        3BDECEMBER 1997









'IMAGING-
Report No.: P    7542  JO
Type:    PR



