             Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 25425-JO

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (TF-26828; SCL-46700)

ON THE SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM

                LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION

   TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF

               JORDAN

    FOR PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM




               6/30/2003

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                            Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
                                       1 JD = US$ 1.41US$
                                    US$ 1 = .708 JD

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1-    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA        Country Financial and Accounting Assessment
ERDL        Economic Reform and Development Loan
ESW         Country Economic and Sector Work
EU          European Union
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
JD          Jordanian Dinar
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIGA        Multilateral International Guarantee Agency
MoAD        Ministry of Administrative Development
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MoH         Ministry of Health
MoJ         Ministry of Justice
MoP         Ministry of Planning
MTFF        Medium-Term Financial Framework
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
PSET        Plan for Social and Economic Transformation (2001-04)
PSRL        Public Sector Reform Loan
QIZ         Qualifying Industrial Zones
VAT         Value-added Tax
WTO         World Trade Organization


                          Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib
             Country Manager/Director:         Joseph P. Saba
               Director/Sector Manager:        Mustapha K. Nabli, Dipak Dasgupta
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Paolo Zacchia

                                            JORDAN
                                          JO-PSRL II


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                      Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      9
6. Sustainability                                                                        10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Information                                                               15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    27
Annex 8. List of officials from the Government and agencies, and others, interviewed     27
during mission, December 15-19, 2002

Project ID: P066826                                                      Project Name: JO-PSRL II
Team Leader: Paolo B. Zacchia                                            TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: JO-PSRL II                                               L/C/TF Number: TF-26828; SCL-46700
   Country/Department: JORDAN                                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (30%); Law and justice (30%);
                            General public administration sector (30%); Information technology
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Judicial and other
                            dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/01/2002                                        Effective: 07/26/2002              07/26/2002
   Appraisal:    03/25/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    07/02/2002                                         Closing: 07/31/2002               07/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN/MINISTRY OF PLAN
                      Other Partners:      -

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:                 Dipak Dasgupta                                 Dipak Dasgupta
Team Leader at ICR:             Paolo Zacchia                                  Paolo Zacchia
ICR Primary Author:             Sulaiman S. Wasty


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Country assistance context

Jordan is a small and open economy whose performance is heavily dependent upon the economic and
political events of the region. The country's vulnerability to regional shocks and the price of oil stems
from: the importance of its export of labor services (around 30 percent of its labor force working outside
the country); the tight links between the regional revenues from oil and its exports of goods; and the
sensitivity of tourism receipts to political instability across its borders.

Following 15 years of economic boom that ended with the fall in oil prices in the mid-1980s, Jordan faced a
severe balance of payments crisis in the late 1980s--compounded by disturbances associated with the Gulf
War (300,000 Jordanians returning in a span of few months). In the event, the challenges for restructuring
the economy included: reducing public sector domination and enhancing the role of the private sector;
increasing the relative size of traded goods and services vis a vis non-tradeables; and moving from the
hitherto regionally-oriented and protected domestic industries toward globally competitive sectors.

Embarking since 1989 upon an ambitious economic reform agenda to stabilize the economy, improve
efficiency, and broaden the role of the private sector, the country has made resolute stabilization and
adjustment efforts supported by the IMF, the Bank, and selected bilateral donors. These reforms have
produced marked shifts in the economy, manifested in the decreased share of public sector as a source of
demand, a rise in private non-residential investment as a proportion of GDP, and a diversified composition
and destination of exports.      Furthermore, inflation has been contained, the current account situation
stabilized, and budget deficits reduced. In addition, Jordan implemented a major shift in trade policy:
signing an association treaty with the EU in 1999, joining the WTO in 2000, and entering into a free-trade
agreement with the United States in 2001.          In conjunction with the structural changes necessary to
implement the trade policy shift, Jordan has achieved remarkable progress in privatization (notably,
utilities), in maintaining exchange rate stability and building sufficient foreign exchange reserves, in
refocusing its state revenues on a broad-based VAT, in reducing public external debt, in increasing
recourse to the internal financial markets, and in pursuing fiscal consolidation under the IMF program.
These adjustment efforts are beginning to come to fruition and spur growth of the economy.

Bank assistance in this period was articulated in four CASs (1993, 1995, 1999, and 2002), and targeted at:
macroeconomic stability and growth, private investment; export promotion; human development, including
social protection; and improving water resource management and urban development. The Bank has
supported structural reforms in Jordan through the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) in
1990 amounting to US$150 million, the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in 1993 amounting to
US$80 million, and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) in 1994 amounting to US$80
million. The centerpiece of the Bank's assistance under the CAS (1995-99) included ERDLs I-III, and
under the current CAS (2000-01) includes PSRLs I-II. ESW has also been broad ranging and extensive.
Bank commitments during the above period were over US$1 billion. The portfolio changed rapidly in the
ensuing years with the introduction of policy reform-based lending with commitments amounting to
US$510 million. IFC has been involved in the financial sector, tourism, and infrastructure with US$89
million of committed exposure. MIGA's first guarantee in FY01 has insured a fertilizer and animal feed
supplement project with US$ 39.1 million.           FIAS has conducted an investor survey and advised on
reorganizing investment promotion activities.




                                                        - 2 -

PSRL II, designed as a programmatic loan approved by the Board in July 2002, is the second in a series of
three PSRLs to provide Jordan with fast-disbursing external financing to maintain a strong financial
position to weather economic and political shocks, as well as to continue implementing the ongoing public
sector reform program, which includes reforming the judicial sector, strengthening public expenditure
management and accountability (public resource management), and improving the delivery of public
services.

These objectives of the loan are highly relevant--considered both at the inception and completion of the
loan--to the present stage of Jordan's economic development. Jordan's economy has historically been
characterized by an oversized public sector, limited private sector leadership, and protected local industries.
Underpinning the operation is the government's efforts to reform and build capacity in the following areas:
civil service and public administration including e-Government, budgetary and financial management, and
the judiciary. Therefore:

First, continuity of reforms is the key to pressing forward the solid achievements to date. Prior to initiation
of the PSRL program, the GoJ had already implemented a series of far-reaching reforms (as noted in the
preceding section) for liberalizing the economy under the Bank-supported ERDLs (1995-2000). As a
result, economic growth has begun to pick up [Real GDP growth rate above 4 percent has been sustained
for the last three years. Gains are also being made in new export production (mostly textiles and garments
from the QIZs and pharmaceuticals)] despite continuing regional instability; an investment culture has
emerged; the private sector is beginning to replace the government as the main source of economic activity;
and the challenge of poverty reduction is being addressed (primarily in the context of the PSET).

Second, it is crucial to identify the remaining and persistent impediments to growth potential. The main
obstacles in liberalizing the economy having been successfully tackled, PSRL II has focused on the major
weaknesses in the public sector namely institutional capacity and the quality and delivery of public
services. By creating a stable and favorable investment climate, providing easier access to core public
sector services for businesses and households, and streamlining civil and judicial administration, the PSRL
program over a three/four year period is envisaged to translate into higher economic growth supported by a
robust economic performance. Commensurate benefits to the poor (though not a specific focus of the
program) are expected to accrue from growth and improved basic services in areas of justice, health, and
education.

Finally, yet importantly, this quick-disbursing loan operation has contributed to the balance of payments
stability necessary while implementing a reform agenda in an inherently shock-prone economic and political
environment.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

As ongoing steps in a programmed framework, PSRL II has concentrated on those initiatives where
sufficient planning and implementation had already taken place prior to the inception of the loan (i.e., July
2002). These initiatives are categorized as follows:

(a) Civil Service and Administrative Reform



                                                     - 3 -

The civil service component of PSRL II aims to make the public sector workforce more service-friendly
and client-oriented, and ensure that government services are simple, faster, more professional, and more
transparent. A key element of this program in improving the management, incentive, and accountability
systems of the civil service also involves streamlining and simplification of government services.

(b) Expenditure Programming and Budget Preparation

PSRL II aims at supporting the GoJ in strengthening the link between sector policies, and ministries'
expenditure programs and allocation. Crucial to this endeavor are the issues of fiscal programming and
projections.   The budget process therefore, will provide the structure for improving inter-ministerial
coordination and for improving M&E, as well as for making logical use of the existing procedures. A
user-friendly aid and investment project database is to be developed to increase efficiency of investments.
In addition, this component seeks to instill a performance orientation in ministries' budgetary and financial
management to boost services.

(c)      Legal and Judicial Reform

Judicial reforms are to focus on promoting a business-friendly judiciary capable of serving as an engine for
growth rather than an impediment to private sector investments. The program seeks to bring the justice
system up to par with international standards and place Jordan at an equal footing with business partners in
the EU and the US--which have concluded free trade agreements with Jordan. Judges will receive training
and, from the computerization of the court systems, faster, fairer, and more transparent judicial services
will result.

PSRL II is well designed, on several grounds:.

The program adopts an incremental and a pragmatic approach, without any claim to grand designs of the
optimal end states (a la logical framework). Its dominant features are problem solving and sequencing
improvements in terms of political feasibility, adequacy of technical capability, and suitability of time
frames--particularly relevant in the context of a volatile regional environment.

The program also aims at concurrent implementation along several tracks. In each track, the responsibility
for implementation is clearly attributed while parallel initiatives are to be coordinated at the highest level.
For example, MoJ is entrusted with the task of judicial reform, while MoAD leads the public sector
reforms on civil service, quality of and access to services, and government restructuring, and MoF is
responsible for reforms of financial and budgetary mangement.

However, an area that needs enhanced attention in the program pertains to the overall coordination of the
program as well as the development of monitoring and evaluation capacity (ex ante and ex post) at the
levels of both a designated coordinating agency and the line ministries. This M&E function [Monitoring
entails: (a) authority to perform; and (b) accountability for implementation. In Jordan, the function is
presently concentrated on detailed reporting requirements by the sectoral ministries. Evaluation, on the
other hand, needs to incorporate: (a) an objective measurement of the performance of projects and
programs; and (b) deriving lessons from experience. In principle, evaluation has two dimensions: (a) self
evaluation (ex ante, ongoing, and ex post) by the initiating and implementing agencies, who are also
required to specify monitorable indicators of performance]; and (b) independent evaluation (ex post) upon
project/program completion as yet does not exist at various levels of the government, but will require some
time   to   reach   maturity    and   become    the   central   theme    of   the  entire  reform   program.


                                                     - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory.

The PSRL program represents a continuity in the reform effort initiated through ERDLs I-III and which
played an important role in assisting Jordan's transition to a strategy of outward-oriented growth led by the
private sector. It expands upon the achievements of the ERDLs in at least two ways. First, programmatic
loan instruments have demonstrated their suitability for complex reforms entailing economic framework
and legislation. Second, the sequencing of reforms in Jordan conforms to the pattern of successes observed
from other countries: first comes macroeconomic stabilization, then trade policy, and then a shift to private
sector-led growth with commensurate changes in the legislative and regulatory framework. In almost all
countries, only after these reforms have been carried out has a restructuring of the core public sector been
successfully undertaken.     Furthermore, the program components follow the agenda for public sector
management reform recommended at the completion of the ERDL program in 2000. Similarly, the loan
operation is marked by consistency with the priorities established in the 1999 and 2002 CASs.

In maintaining macroeconomic stability, the operation is fully consistent with the requirements of the IMF
program. Prior to the tenure of the PSRL II, a new Enhanced Fund Facility (EFF) for 1999-2001 was
approved in April 1999 and which has since been extended.

The locus of initiative lies clearly with the GoJ, together with a strong expression of political will by the
King himself. Those are critical indicators of reform readiness and of country ownership of the reform
program. The letter of development policy was underpinned by extensive discussions amongst officials of
the key ministries involved in the implementation of the program. Additionally, there has been a continuity
in several country counterparts who had been thoroughly engaged in the inception and completion of the
preceding ERDL program. Simultaneously, there has been an excellent rapport and a constructive policy
dialogue between the Bank staff and the major government officials at all stages of program preparation.

Last but not least, the risks (regional stability, and the complexity and demandingness of loan conditions)
were considered high, [on the other hand, these risks have persisted for a long time and could be overstated]
with the current period of external developments continuing to be exceptionally challenging. These risks
were mitigated mostly through the operation's following of an iterative approach to achievements; i.e.,
building credibility with short-term successes, creating consensus, and maintaining momentum for the
longer term.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall Outcome: Satisfactory.




                                                      - 5 -

PSRL II--as a single-tranche operation--forms a part of a multi-year phased program where outputs and
achievements are highly contingent upon the subsequent pace and momentum of the reform program.
Thus, this ICR for PSRL II reviews mainly the progress made in following up on the conditions outlined in
the President's Report, and specifically toward the building blocks (albeit inputs, activities, processes,
and/or outputs) for achieving the program objectives.

All the actions on the PSRL II's components taken prior to Board (before July 2002) are being followed up
as earmarked for 2002-03--though at an uneven breadth and pace. More importantly, the GoJ has
successfully created the necessary groundwork and infrastructure for implementing the program
components that predate even the current operation (i.e., starting with the ERDLs and PSRL 1).

Annex 1 shows a comparison (overall and by component) of the outcome/impact indicators, loan's
projections, and the progress to date.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(a)      Improvements to the Civil Service and Administration

Substantial.

Success of the reform agenda is to be measured by the extent to which: appropriate selection procedures are
adhered to; appraisal, performance criteria and career management system is put into practice; processes
are simplified in government agencies; public services are improved (ascertained partly through service
delivery surveys); and e-government is extended within the administration.

- Civil Service Reform

Modest.

In May 2002, after widespread consultations, the GoJ has adopted a new civil service Bylaw and its
implementing regulations. This law contains a code of ethics for public employees and more meritocratic
selection of senior managers, regular and more transparent evaluation and promotion of personnel, and
greater scope for dealing with unsatisfactory staff. The Government has also finalized the job descriptions
(duties, reporting arrangements, and qualifications) for 58 public departments. A study of the incentive
framework (including pay and allowances) is also planned. But, until now, the salary structure remains to
be tackled and the human resources management structure has yet to be put in place.

On the administrative front, MoAD has been entrusted with the oversight function--with responsibility for
human resources management, training, and monitoring of service quality.

- Improvements in Services to the Public

Substantial.

The program calls for establishing a permanent network for improving quality and access to services on as
many fronts as possible and to lay the ground for self-sustaining improvements. Under PSRL II, beyond
the expansion of services, some departments have already moved beyond work and procedure
simplification. Complementary initiatives have focused on providing transparent and reliable information



                                                    - 6 -

to the general public (e.g., through directories of services, service bureaus, websites). To date, service
directories have been published for 33 public departments (ministries as well as autonomous
organizations), which identify the available services, the time necessary for each transaction, the location of
relevant offices, and the official cost of each service. These directories will continue to be published and
posted over the next two years with the aim of covering all 1,400 services offered to the public. However it
should be noted that while substantial progress has been made in mechanisms that foster transparency,
increase professionalism and improve client orientation, given the short duration of the loan (26th July
2002 to 30th July 2002), there was no time to see the impact on delivery of services itself during the period
of loan effectiveness.

The practice of service delivery surveys (conducted for five-seven departments so far) needs to become
more prevalent so as to ascertain "results on the ground." What is required indeed is a complex and
comprehensive system of data gathering on the performance of the public sector and the satisfaction of the
users. This will take a combination of tools, and systematic evaluation of agencies. Most important, what
will determine the success of the program is for these agencies to systematically publish the results.

Concurrent to the efforts of improving public service delivery, e-Government is piece and parcel of the
service improvement program. The GoJ has established an e-Government Program Management Unit in
the Ministry of Information and Communications Technology to promote the use of information technology
within the administration. It is well funded and is looking at re-engineering of services, focusing on very
intensive information technology processes and departments. Also, GoJ has promulgated a law authorizing
electronic transactions to help establish the legal foundation for e-Government. Under this initiative,
several services will be available electronically (including the income tax, general sales tax, and land use
and surveys departments).

(b)     Improvements in Financial and Budgetary Management

Modest.

- Budgetary Improvements

Substantial.

Because of inadequate capacity of as well as insufficient commitment by the MoF and the sectoral
ministries/governorates, the promised transition (by December 2003/June 2004) toward the establishment
of sectoral budget ceilings derived from a MTFF in the budget circular has been delayed and is still
incomplete.

Further   steps    for   the   MTFF      (program    structures,  functional    expenditures     classification,
macro-economically consistent expenditure forecasting, integrated capital budget, etc.) have been
progressing initially at a slow pace, but building up the macro-aggregate and sectoral components of the
MTFF has gained pace in the second quarter of 2003, as the task forces set up in the Ministries of Finance
and Planning have rushed to finalize a first version of a medium term fiscal plan. Although the prior
declaration and adoption of budget ceilings at the sector level in the 2003 budget circular has not occurred
as projected, the draft 2004 budget circular integrates the results of the task forces, and it is expected that
the cabinet will approve it in a version that includes ceilings for expenditures of all budgetary spending
units. Refinement of the technical underpinnings and of the procedures, especially with respect to costing of
sector policies, will need to take place in the following budget rounds, but quantifiable progress has been
achieved.


                                                     - 7 -

- Investment Programming and Better Integration of Capital and Recurrent Spending

Substantial.

The MoP has created a Foreign Aid and Investment Projects Information System (FAPIS) which seeks to
strengthen the ministry's capacity in coordinating and managing financial and technical assistance provided
by multilateral agencies and bilateral donors. In order to enhance the public investment decision making
process, the system will also serve as a tool to forecast capital expenditures and recurrent costs of both
aid-funded and treasury-funded projects. For these forecasts to become an integral part of the MTFF, these
forecasts must be incorporated into the current budgetary process.

- Fostering Result-Orientation

Modest.

The need for reorienting the budget process from sole attention to inputs and toward the results of
government activity is clear in Jordan. Yet, this is an area which has witnessed perhaps the weakest
progress. The Government's approach to date has been limited to experiments and specifically, to forming
pilot programs in the ministries of health and education.       It needs to be emphasized, however, that
performance-oriented budgeting is always a process--not an outcome--and a complex one with many
tracks and dimensions.

- Financial Management

Modest.

As had been noted in the most recent CFAA, the basic financial controls have largely been focused on
compliance instead of assuring a sustainable accountability framework. To remedy the situation, GoJ is
working to establish a computerized system of real-time budgetary reporting to improve the monitoring of
budget execution.

(c) Improvements in the Judicial System

Substantial.

Since August 2000, GoJ has launched a broad-based agenda for the administration of justice--set in
motion initially by the creation of RCDJ (consisting of a number of highly respected figures of the
Jordanian establishment). The reform program undertaken by MoJ is consistent with the expectations.
More needs to be done in terms of monitoring and evaluation of the program--in order to determine the
actual impact on the changes in the overall conduct of justice in Jordan.

The Government's comprehensive approach has included the following: (a) improving the working
conditions (financial, training-wise, and through provision of an adequate environment in terms of new
buildings and modern equipment--of the existing and future pool of judges; (b) introduction of
computerization to reduce the burden on the judges and the functionaries and to increase the speed and
security of judicial decisions; and (c) devising an alternative dispute resolution system to reduce the
backlog of cases.




                                                    - 8 -

Now, the GoJ has entered the consolidation (albeit its beginning) stage of its reform of the justice system.
Toward this end, the Government has recently amended the statutes of the Judicial Institute for the training
of judges to transform it into a more efficient and relatively autonomous agency. The MoJ has recruited 80
new judges (with plans for additional 140) with increased pay and improved pensions, computerized the
Amman court system, and has completed a feasibility study for a fully integrated case management system
for all of Jordan. To assure sufficient infrastructure, the MoJ is implementing a program to build new
courthouses across the country and to establish new tribunals in Amman, in addition to the main Palace of
Justice. Modern tools of case processing have been installed and the training required to operate them has
been delivered.

An Arbitration Code has been enacted to reduce the delays in the judicial process, notably in matters of
commercial litigation. Jordan has already adhered to and ratified all relevant international instruments.
Finally, to increase the overall transparency of the justice system, plans for disseminating legislation over
the internet have been finalized, and an electronic database for reliable access for all potential users is in
place.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Net present value/economic rate of return is not applicable to adjustment loans.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial rates of return are not calculated for adjustment operations.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest

Progress has been made toward reforming the judicial sector, and in the institutional arrangements for
improving the delivery of public services.

The creation of RCDJ earlier and the establishment of MoAD (together with their respective mandates) are
important organizational set-ups toward subsequent incentives and processes for capacity building in the
respective sectors. Nonetheless, any meaningful institutional development impact, cannot be measured by
the mere creation of new bodies.

There have also been elimination of certain departments considered redundant, and reorganization of some
overlapping agencies. Moreover, additional achievements of the program have included a realignment of
the training functions of the government and the implementation of training modules (with budgetary
provisions) across the public sector.

However, the reform program has yet to demonstrate immediate successes. A priority should be to focus
the program's implementation on a selected number of sensitive social services to ensure that the full
benefits of the public sector reforms are felt at the grassroots level.

In sum, the PSRL program is in its very nature heavily-institutional and process oriented. These reforms
correspondingly have a longer gestation and require consistent and across-the-board capacity building.
Likewise, creating a more accountable and performance-based public sector is a long-term effort,
consisting of many small steps which will require constant and transparent monitoring. Last but not least,



                                                      - 9 -

in order to monitor and evaluate the impact, GoJ would need to have an M&E system in place.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There are no factors that are of particular significance to the implementation requirements of the PSRL II
program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

A high-powered interministerial committee was established in September 2002, with the purpose of
overseeing the progress of the reform effort. However, the committee has not yet met. The GoJ needs to
address the       broader issue of change management in the administration through developing
cross-fertilization among working level groups and by sharing information regarding the outcomes of the
reform widely and involving all the stakeholders in the process.

Expression of political will at the top level for reform has not yet sufficiently "trickled down" to the line
agencies. The government's implementation plan needs to define how reforms can be scaled up from
discrete actions and individual agencies to program and government-wide results.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Working level interactions between the leading ministries and agencies (namely, MoP, MoF, MoAD,
Justice, Civil Service Bureau, Telecommunications, Health, Department of Land and Surveys)--are few
and far between.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely.

PSRL II is characterized by a high degree of political will and government commitment at least at the top
level.

The GoJ will have to contend with two main challenges.

First, the next phase of reforms could encounter resistance from established bureaucratic interests and
entrenched traditions. Ensuring that this resistance is reduced entails commitment of time and resources to:
(a) consultation with the target groups (winners and losers); (b) effective information regarding the
outcomes of the reform and transparency of the processes; and (c) development of a broad-based coalition
both within and outside the government . A reasonable place to start could be in fostering and training of
different pilot teams in charge of the reform pillars into an effective core of change agents for the rest of the
administration.




                                                     - 10 -

Second, short-term fiscal requirements may hinder the needed attention to an accelerated implementation of
the financial management program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The PSRLs are indeed "regular" operations--with their bases on ESW and meeting the justifiable fiscal
needs of the government.

The Bank is also planning technical assistance to GoJ, which will primarily be used for the preparation of
budgeting reforms, and the creation of an appropriate M&E system; some resources will be devoted to
public sector reform coordination and outreach.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory.

The loan was effective from July 26th to July 30th 2002, during which time there were no specific
supervision missions. Given the complexity and breadth of the program, the Bank team has been
continuously monitoring implementation progress as part of the work for preparing PSRL III--leading to
appropriate diagnoses of the emerging problems and then making concerted efforts for mid-stream
corrections.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory.

As discussed in section 3.5 on quality at entry, the PSRL program maintains continuity in the reform effort
both in design and dialogue and supports the initiatives of the GoJ, while mitigating against perceived risks
by using an iterative approach.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory.

As the discussion in section 3.5 on quality at entry indicates, borrower preparation was satisfactory.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory.

Section 4 on the achievement of objective and outputs discusses government implementation performance



                                                    - 11 -

which was satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory.

Section 4 on the achievement of objective and outputs discusses implementing agency performance which
was satisfactory.




7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Programmatic lending serves as a useful vehicle for economy-wide reforms. This instrument is particularly
advantageous in structuring complex dialogue dealing with the whole government (and therefore across
sectors), and in encouraging meaningful and precise progress over a well-defined time frame. Overcoming
roadblocks, however, requires a frank and lucid evaluation of the Bank-country relationship--in terms of
the expectations of the durability and outcomes of the reform beyond the years under consideration of the
program.

As iterated earlier, it is essential to develop M&E capacity--for evaluating both the progress of policies
and programs underpinning the entire reform program. In this regard, while taking note of the fact that
evaluating progress on public sector reforms is very challenging since quantifiable indicators are hard to
come by, international experience suggests that considerable progress has been made in many places in
developing rudimentary measurable indicators for some public sector reform components, in particular,
those pertaining to public expenditure management. The use of such indicators should be developed.

A major part of GoJ's analytical work (and Bank's ESW) should focus on developing a
performance-oriented budgeting system with a view to improving the efficiency of public expenditure
management.

PSRLs are being implemented by several ministries and agencies, and requires overall coordination and
monitoring. Here, coordination does not mean "command and control"; instead, to ensure the long-term
complementarity amongst the various components of the program. In this context, there is a need for
creating a working group under the present inter-ministerial coordinating committee. This working group
should be about more than just monitoring and reporting; it is also about assuring that the content of the
various measures are aligned from the get-go. Lastly, this working group should also be instrumental in
setting up a process that allows the sharing and exchange of information and ideas.

For the program to achieve a substantive institutional development impact, it is important to avail of the
interlinkages among the various components of the program. To date, most of the progress has been
achieved through pursuing parallel tracks. Now the reform program needs to focus on integrating the
various elements (e.g., costing of government services, simplification of procedures, establishment of a
judicial information network).



                                                   - 12 -

PSRLs should not to be viewed as a medium-term and time-bound external support; instead, as one with a
perennial horizon--requiring a shift from an approach that focuses mostly on lending toward one that
emphasizes policy dialogue underpinned by economic and sector work. The program already relies on the
GoJ's own institutions and administrative structures; hence, making institutional development in Jordan
crucial for the success of its own PSR program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Formal comments from GoJ follow: It should be noted that the document has been revised to reflect the
editorial comments of the borrower ­ as a result of which they have been left out from the rest of the
comments which are enclosed below.

                        Comments on "Jordan Implementation Completion Report"
                                   Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL II)

General Comments

Page 10, Para. 4, indicates that the salary structure needs to be tackled and the human resources
management structure has yet to be put in place. Accordingly, it is important to note that the Ministry
of Administrative Development (MoAD) has prepared a "National Strategy for Administrative Reform",
endorsed by the Economic Consultative Council (ECC). This strategy consists of 19 projects that cover
various aspects in the Government administration. The implementation of these projects are prioritized
according to set parameters. Some of these projects are specifically concerned with the salary structure
and human resources management, such as preparing a comprehensive database on workers in the public
sector with their classification and job description, and rationalizing employment bulk in the public sector.
In this regard, it is strongly recommended by the WB to work with the MoAD on including some the new
elements incorporated in the National Strategy as part of the Public Sector Reform Program.

Page 11, Para. 2, states that the practice of service delivery surveys (conducted in five-seven
departments so far) needs to become more prevalent in order to ascertain "results on the ground".
Indeed, an efficient and comprehensive system of data collection on the performance of the public
sector as well as the satisfaction of all users is crucial. This will require the systematic evaluation of
agencies, and more importantly, the publishing of results. In this regard, the MoAD has conducted
Service Delivery Surveys (SDS) for several institutions in the public sector in order to determine critical
existing weaknesses and gaps in the performance of these institutions. These surveys will progressively be
extended to other sectors based on past experiences. In this regard, it is necessary to allocate additional
human resources to support these efforts and work on providing the department with the appropriate
training.

Page 11, Para. 3&4, state that because of continuing inadequate capacity of as well as insufficient
commitment by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the sectoral ministries/governorates, concerns
persist in terms of the promised transition (by December 2003/June 2004) toward a Result-Oriented
Budgetary allocation system and the MTFF. Further steps for the MTFF (program structures,
functional expenditures classification, expenditure forecasting, integrated capital budget, etc.) have
been progressing at a slow pace (in terms of output definitions capable of supporting program
structuring). Notably, the prior declaration and adoption of budget ceiling in the recent budget



                                                     - 13 -

circular has not been adopted as projected. With regards to the Financial Management Reform Program
(FMRP), the report was not written in a comprehensive manner, whereby the slow implementation of the
program was regarded as a consequence of a lack of commitment on behalf of the Ministry of Finance.
However, in reality, the launching of this program experienced great difficulty last year, and due to the vast
commitment of the Ministry of Finance, the discrepancy in implementation was overcome and a specific
work plan for each task force was set. These task forces include:

- Macro-Economic Model Task Force
- Revenue Forecasting Task Force
- Expenditure Forecasting Task Force
- Medium-Term Fiscal Framework Task Force

The above-mentioned task forces are working hard to achieve the goals related to placing a medium-term
fiscal framework and an expenditure ceiling, as well as declaration the budget circular before July 2003.

In an effort to make this program more effective, an expert to work for the macro-economic model task
force has been hired. Moreover, additional experts in the areas of expenditure, financial ceiling and BOR,
will soon be employed in order to enhance the capacity of each task force.

It is important to note that the Steering Committee headed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of
Finance will be following up on the project and resolving any emerging problems.

P 11, Para. 5, indicates that the prior declaration and adoption of budget ceiling in the recent budget
circular has not been adopted as projected. It is agreed, by the members of the Steering Committee of
the Financial Management Reform and the head of the taskforces, to finalize the preparation of the
preliminary budget ceilings by the end of June 2003, to be approved by the cabinet and incorporated into
the budget circular of 2004. Due to the fact that it is the first time this kind of activity has been
implemented, as well as the available skills and experiences, the results could not reach the required level of
performance. However, the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the General Budget Department (GBD) are
working on a parallel track to build their capacities individually, in order to be able to deal with the new
trends and concepts in this field. Moreover, the requirements of the agreed reform programs with the IMF,
and the objectives of these programs, may cause some change from the declared ceilings.

Page 12, Para 1, states that the Ministry of Planning (MOP) has created a Foreign Aid and
Investments Projects Information System (FAPIS), which seeks to strengthen the Ministry's capacity
in coordinating and managing financial and technical assistance provided by multilateral and bilateral
donors. In order to enhance the public investment decision-making process, FAPIS will also serve as
a tool to forecast capital expenditures and recurrent costs of both aid-funded and treasury-funded
projects. For these forecast; to become an integral part of the Medium Term Fiscal Frame work
(MTFF), they must be incorporated into the current budgetary process. It is worth noting that the
Government budget and budget process are the central focus of public expenditure planning, linking both
capital and recurrent expenditures to the strategic objectives of the Government of Jordan (GoJ).
Accordingly, the forecasts produced by the FAPIS will become an integral part of the three-year
Medium-Term Fiscal Framework.

Page 12, Para 2, indicates Jordan's need to reorient its budget process to becoming more
result-oriented. This is an area which has experienced perhaps the weakest progress. To date, the
Government's approach has been limited to developing pilot programs in the Ministries of Health



                                                   - 14 -

and Education. The fact that performance-oriented budgeting is a multi-dimensional and complex
process, must be emphasized. With regards to enhance the adoption of the Results-Oriented Budgeting
(ROB), the comments were written in a forceful manner. This is an indication that the Government does not
realize the consequences of implementation. In reality, the task force working on this issue has been active.
However due to the implementation sequence of this project, the work of the Expenditure Forecasting and
Revenue Forecasting task forces come prior. Moreover, he Ministry of Finance has chosen the following
pilot institution . in an effort to incorporate the main ministries/institutions.

                  - Ministry of Education
                  - Ministry of Public Works and Housing
                  - Ministry of Health
                   - Ministry of Water and Irrigation
                   - Ministry of Agriculture
                  - Jordan Water Authority .
                  - Jordan Valley Authority

The work plan in this regard is time consuming and includes several stages that depend on the performance
of other task forces such as Improving the Financial Monitoring and Medium-Term Fiscal Framework. In
this regard, it is essential that the people dealing with the ROB are provided with high-quality training,
based on past experiences, as promised by the last World Bank mission.

Page 12, Para 3, As noted in the most recent CFAA, the basic financial controls have largely been
focused on compliance instead of on assuring a sustainable accountability framework. To remedy the
situation, the GoJ is working to establish a computerized system of real-time budgetary reporting, to
improve the monitoring of budget execution. It is expected that the taskforce of improving the financial
monitoring will submit its results by the end of June 2003. These results will be comprised of (i) new tools
which could help prepare the budget, (ii) the results of the general budget classifications study, and (iii)
ways of improving monitoring tools for executing the budget law. Moreover, the MoF and the GBD, in
cooperation with the E-- government program, are examining the possibility of computerizing all
government activities and developing the accounting system and the procurement system in order to be
consistent with the new classifications of budget law.

Page 12, Para. 4, the reform program undertaken by the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) is consistent with
the set expectations. However, much work remains in terms of monitoring and evaluating the
program, so as to determine the actual impact of changes in the overall conduct of justice in Jordan.
It is important to note that the MoJ has exerted great efforts in conducting internal monitoring and
evaluation systems. It has also prepared a study in cooperation with the National Training Program on
practicing SDS with relevant parties. In this regard, it is recommended that the MoJ institutionalize this
process, coordinate and strengthen linkages with other pillars, and work on publishing the results of its
surveys.

The report does not focus enough on the pillar of E-government, as it does on he other three pillars, as no
performance rating was provided. Moreover, the report concentrated on the early stages of establishing the
E-government program, without highlighting its achievements during the second stage of PSRP, such as
building the ICT centers, implementing the fast tracks initiative, and establishing the secure government
network. Furthermore, the report should include whether the general attitude are working through and the
original structure of implementing reform are in synergy with the other components of the Public Sector
Reform Project.




                                                       - 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Several other international institutions and bilateral donors (viz. UNDP, USAID, GTZ, and DFID) are
active players in assisting GoJ's development programs.

10. Additional Information

OED, in partnership with the Islamic Development Bank, has conducted a Country Assistance Evaluation
for Jordan in FY03.




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Not applicable to adjustment loans, but the framework is adapted and/or imputed to the progress achieved
under the current operation--PSRL II


        Outcome / Impact                 Prior Actions           Projected Additional Actions                           Estimate of Progress
         Indicator Matrix               (as of May 2002)                    (2002-03)                               (as of mid-December 2002)

(a)       Civil Service and
Administrative Reform
- Reform of Civil Service        -Cabinet approval of new       -Full implementation of the        The ByLaw is being implemented. Job descriptions (duties,
                                 Civil Service ByLaw            ByLaw, including development       reporting arrangements, and qualifications) have been
                                 - Cabinet approval of and      by MoAD of an M&E system of finalized for 58 public departments.
                                 establishment of MoAD          civil service management
                                 - Finalization of job          - Establishment of a standard,     A study of the incentive framework (including pay and
                                 descriptions for 58            centralized, computerized human allowances) is also planned. The salary structure remains to
                                 departments                    resource information and           be tackled and the human resources management structure
                                 - Online posting of all civil  administration system--to be       has yet to be put in place.
                                 service vacancies and the      accessible by at least half of the
                                 queue of all eligible          line agencies
                                 applicants                     - Extension of managerial skills
                                 - Agreement on a system to     upgrading to all managers
                                 monitor, test, and adopt new - Formulation of a draft pay
                                 appraisal and promotion        reform action plan, based on
                                 procedures                     results of the study
                                 - Creation and online posting
                                 of a comprehensive civil
                                 service database
                                 - Formulation of a terms of
                                 reference for a study on the
                                 centralized resource
                                 information system
                                 - Completion of first cohort
                                 of managerial skills
                                 upgrading
                                 - Formulation of a terms of
                                 reference for a
                                 comprehensive study of pay
                                 reform
- Improvement of Public Services - Simplification of processes - Extension of process              Some departments have already moved beyond work and
                                 in 15 government                simplification (together with     procedure simplification. Service directories have been
                                 departments                     formulation of service            published for 33 public departments (ministries as well as
                                 - Launch of service delivery standards) to at least 15            autonomous organizations), which identify the available
                                 surveys in five departments     additional departments, and       services, the time necessary for each transaction, the location
                                 (where there have been          adoption of a system to track     of relevant offices, and the official cost of each service.
                                 process simplifications)        departmental initiatives
                                 - Publication of public         - Adoption of a                   Service delivery surveys have been conducted for five-seven
                                 service directories for 33      government-wide protocol for      departments.
                                 departments                     service delivery surveys, as well
                                 - Launch of e-Government        as conducting and publishing of An e-Government Program Management Unit in the Ministry
                                 initiative through the creation surveys in at least 5 additional  of Information and Communications Technology has been
                                 of a Program Management         departments                       established. It is well funded and is looking at re-engineering
                                 Unit, publication of a report - Implementation of                 of services, focusing on very intensive information technology
                                 highlighting the vision and     e-Government information and      processes and departments. Also, GoJ has promulgated a law
                                 blueprint of the initiative,    access in seven agencies          authorizing electronic transactions to help establish the legal
                                 construction of 20              - Implementation of IT systems    foundation for e-Government. Several services are planned to
                                 community IT centers, and       in selected agencies,             be available electronically (including the income tax, general
                                 approval of a law authorizing government-wide                     sales tax, and land use and surveys departments).
                                 electronic transactions         computerization of personnel
                                                                 and budget
(b)       Expenditure
Programming and Budget
Preparation




                                                                    - 17 -

- Medium-Term Budget Framework - Commitment of MoF to            -Formulation of medium-term       Concerns persist regarding the promised transition (by
                                 prepare aggregate               expenditure programs in health    December 2003/June 2004) toward a result-oriented
                                 medium-term (3-5 years)         and education, approved by the    budgetary allocation system and the MTFF.
                                 expenditure projections, to     Cabinet and incorporated into
                                 be approved by the Cabinet      expenditure projections to frame
                                 and included in the circular    the 2004 budget
                                 for the 2003 budget
                                                                 - Extension of the MTFF
                                                                 expenditure process in at least
                                                                 four additional ministries or
                                                                 agencies
- Budget Preparation Process     - Commitment of MoF to          - Cabinet approval of initial     Very partial implementation of the prior declaration and
                                 specify the initial expenditure expenditure ceilings for all      adoption of budget ceilings in the 2003 recent budget
                                 ceilings for each ministry and ministries and agencies,           circular, but more complete implementation in the 2004 draft
                                 agency, consistent with         consistent with both resource     budget circular.
                                 revenue projections,            availability and sectoral
                                 beginning with the circular     policies/costing
                                 for the 2003 budget             - Revision of the format and
                                                                 instructions of the budget
                                                                 preparation circular to be
                                                                 consistent with medium-term
                                                                 policy-based budget preparation
                                                                 - Issuance of the circular for
                                                                 preparation of the budget as
                                                                 early as possible before July of
                                                                 the preceding year beginning
                                                                 with 2004 budget preparation
                                                                 - Establishment of a process of
                                                                 regular dialogue between MoF
                                                                 and line ministries--on
                                                                 effectiveness of budget
                                                                 preparation process
                                                                 - Formulation by MoF and MoP
                                                                 of a program to improve
                                                                 budgeting capacity in the line
                                                                 ministries
- Revenue Forecasting            - Creation of an               - Adoption of measures to reduce A revenue forecasting tool is in place in MoF, but it is not yet
                                 interministerial mechanism tothe historical discrepancy           fully integrated with other ministries' systems.
                                 improve revenue forecasting between estimated and actual
                                                                annual revenue
- Investment Programming         - Establishment of a            - Full operationalizing of the    The MoP has created a Foreign Aid and Investment Projects
                                 committee within MoP to         investment database               Information System (FAPIS) which seeks to strengthen the
                                 coordinate project decisions - Establishment of procedures        ministry's capacity in coordinating and managing financial
                                 in different sectors            requiring accurate projections of and technical assistance provided by multilateral agencies and
                                 - Design of a comprehensive all recurrent costs of projects       bilateral donors.
                                 database for all projects, and over the medium to long-term
                                 a work plan to put in place
                                                                 - Systematic incorporation of
                                                                 rolling capital and recurrent cost
                                                                 projections of projects into the
                                                                 MTFF
- Expenditure Efficiency and     - Decision to launch a pilot    - Implementation of the pilot     The approach has been limited to experiments and,
Effectiveness                    exercise for results-based      exercise in health, including     specifically, to forming pilot programs in the ministries of
                                 budgeting in the                selective introduction of         health and education.
                                 immunization program in the program classification,
                                 MoH                             definition of indicators, and     Basic financial controls have largely been focused on
                                                                 mechanism for evaluation and      compliance instead of assuring a sustainable accountability
                                                                 feedback--with maximum            framework.
                                                                 participation of service users
                                                                 - Extension of results-based
                                                                 budgeting pilots for programs in
                                                                 at least four additional areas
                                                                 -Definition of appropriate
                                                                 qualitative links between
                                                                 efficiency and effectiveness and
                                                                 the allocation of future
                                                                 budgetary resources
(c)   Legal and Judicial Reform
- Commercial Dispute Resolution  - Enactment of an               - Regular assessment of impact    The reform program undertaken by GoJ is consistent with
                                 arbitration code to reduce      through informal surveys and      the expectations. More needs to be done in terms of




                                                                     - 18 -

- Modernization of the Court System the delays in the judicial   implementation of refinements      monitoring and evaluation of the program--in order to
                                    process, notably in matters                                     determine the actual impact on the changes in the overall
- Judges                            of commercial litigation     - Recruitment of an additional     conduct of justice in Jordan.
                                    - Introduction of procedural 140 judges                         Overall, the country has entered the consolidation (albeit its
- Training and Professional         case management through      - Implementation of a system to    beginning) stage of its reform of the justice system.
Standards                           amendments to relevant       monitor the workload of judges
                                    laws                                                            A feasibility study for a fully integrated case management
                                                                 - Implementation of the National system for all of Jordan has been completed. Further,
                                    -Adoption and initial        Judicial Institute's new curricula to increase the overall transparency of the justice system,
                                    implementation of the        for judges and auxiliaries of      plans for disseminating legislation over the internet have
                                    Royal Scientific Society's   justice                            been finalized, and an electronic database for reliable access
                                    study on the modernization                                      for all potential users is in place.
                                    of the judiciary
                                                                                                    To assure sufficient infrastructure, the MoJ is implementing
                                    - Provision of adequate                                         a program to build new courthouses across the country and
                                    budgetary resources: (a) to                                     to establish new tribunals in Amman, in addition to the main
                                    raise judges' salaries and                                      Palace of Justice. Modern tools of case processing are being
                                    (b) hire additional 80                                          installed and the training required to operate them has been
                                    judges                                                          delivered.
                                    -Adoption of a new plan
                                    aimed at establishing a                                         The MoJ has recruited 80 new judges (with process
                                    flexible and evolutionary                                       underway for additional 140) with increased pay and
                                    salary scale and an                                             improved pensions.
                                    improved pension scheme
                                    for judges                                                      The government has amended the statutes of the Judicial
                                                                                                    Institute for the training of judges to transform it into a more
                                    - Amendment of the law                                          efficient and relatively autonomous agency.
                                    regulating the National
                                    Judicial Institute
                                    - Introduction of new
                                    courses on business law
                                    broadly defined and on
                                    foreign languages
                                    - Adoption of a systematic
                                    training program for judges
                                    and auxiliaries of justice




                                                                    - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


US$120 million as a single tranche LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan. Grace period = 5 years; Maturity
= 17 years.




                                               - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic costs and benefits are not calculated for adjustment loans.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation/
 Appraisal/Negotiation/                  4     Economists                              S               S
 Supervision

               07/2002-01/2003
                                         5     Public Sector Specialists               S               S
                                         1     Lawyer
                                         1     Communications Specialist
                                                                                       S               S

 Supervision
               12/2002                                                                 S               S
                                                                                       S               S

 ICR
               12/2002                   1     Consultant                              S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation/                 39                313 (inc. travel)
  Appraisal/Negotiation/
  Supervision

  Supervision
  ICR                                          3                  18 (inc. travel)
  Total                                       42                331 (inc. travel)




                                               - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Financial Management




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Country Assistance Strategy for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Report No. 19890-JO), November
12, 1999.

- President's Report and Recommendation for the Second Public Sector Reform Loan (Report No.
7542-J0), May 17, 2002.

- The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Country Assistance Evaluation (Draft) (OED: October 15, 2002).

- Jordan Development Policy Review: A Reforming State in a Volatile Region (Report No. 24425-JO),
November 5, 2002.

- Country Assistance Strategy for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Draft), November 26, 2002.

- Complete project documentation/reports on file.

___________________________________________________________________________________

Annex 8. List of officials from the Government and agencies, and others, interviewed during mission:
December 15-19, 2002

        GoJ

    Ministry of Planning

    H.E. Dr. Bassem I. Awadallah, Minister

    Dr. Khalaf Al-Hadid, Coordinator, Public Sector Reform & National Insurance System Projects

    Mr. Nasser Shraideh, Director, Aid Coordination Unit

    Ministry of Finance

    Mr. Ibrahim Al-Dwairi, Director General, Budget Department

    Dr. Dieter Kattermann, Team Leader, Financial Management Reform in Jordan, Jordanian-German
    Technical Cooperation (GTZ), General Budget Department

    Ministry of Administrative Development

    H.E. Dr. Mohammad Thneibat, Minister of State

    Ministry of Health

    Dr. Mu'tasem Awamleh, General Director of Planning

    Department of Lands & Surveys




                                                 - 25 -

Eng. Abdel Munem Samara Al-Zu'bi, Director General

Eng. Saad Al-Khatib, Director of General Director Office

Ministry of Information and Communications Technology

Eng. Mahmoud Khasawni, Director of E-Government Initiative

Ministry of Justice

Mr. Nazim Aref, Secretary General



   Private Sector

Mr. Rajai Kossous, Executive Manager, Investment and Marketing, Jordan Investment and Finance
Bank

Mr. Ousama A. Melkawi, Melkawi & Associates, Counsellors & Attorneys At Law

Mr. Rabie' M. Hamzeh, Advocate




                                             - 26 -

- 27 -

