Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 052141 HR 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 7198 HR 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
HRVATSKA BANKA ZA OBNOVU I RAZVITAK 
 
Dated  November 10, 2003
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 052141 HR 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 7198 HR 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated, November 10, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF 
Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and HRVATSKA 
BANKA ZA OBNOVU I RAZVITAK (HBOR). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith between  
the Republic of Croatia (the Recipient) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to 
the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million Dollars ($7,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, provided that 
HBOR agrees to undertake such obligations as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and HBOR, a portion of the proceeds of the grant provided for under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement will be made available to HBOR on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said HBOR GEF Implementation Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS HBOR, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01.  
HBOR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out    
Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, financial and environmental standards and energy efficiency practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
Section 2.02. 
HBOR shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to plans and schedules, records 
and reports, and maintenance, respectively) in respect of Part C of the Project. 
 
Section 2.03. 
HBOR shall duly perform all its obligations under the HBOR GEF Grant 
Implementation Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, HBOR 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) HBOR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank and the Recipient with regard to progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Grant. 
 
(b)  
HBOR shall promptly inform the Bank and the Recipient of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by HBOR of its obligations 
under this Agreement and/or under the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 2.05.  
HBOR shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of HBOR 
 
Section 3.01. 
HBOR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices with qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 3.02. 
HBOR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or shall 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) HBOR shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
Part C of the Project. 
 
(b) HBOR 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements), including, 
statements of income and related statements in respect of the Guaranty 
Facility Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii)    
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient as soon as available, but in any 
case  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year:              
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon HBOR’s progress reporting obligations in 
this Agreement, HBOR shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part C of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; and 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual and planned Project implementation. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall 
cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HBOR shall maintain a loss 
rate on non-performing loans of the Participating Banks supported by the Partial Credit Guarantee 
Facility under Part C.2 of the Project, not exceeding 5% of the outstanding guarantee liability 
commitment of HBOR to Participating Banks for fiscal year 2004 and thereafter until completion 
of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Recipient shall cause HBOR 
to prepare forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, to review whether HBOR would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, 
and to furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that HBOR would not meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) for the Recipient’s fiscal years covered by such review, HBOR shall promptly 
take all necessary measures (including recovery of energy end-user payments and allowance for 
reasonable recovery costs) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
Section 4.04. 
(a) For the purposes of carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, HBOR shall:  
(i) maintain a ratio of its liabilities to reserves of not less than 1:1 for the calendar year 2004 and 
thereafter until the Mid-Term Review Date; and (ii) upon a satisfactory review of Part C.2 of the 
Project during the Mid-Term Review, shall take all necessary measures to increase the ratio of its 
liabilities to reserves to at least 2:1 and shall thereafter maintain this ratio until completion of the 
Project; 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
the term “liabilities” means the cumulative outstanding guarantee 
commitment made by HBOR to Participating Banks under all Guarantee 
Facility Agreements; and 
(ii)  
the term “reserves” means the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
proceeds in the Guaranty Facility Account. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HBOR hereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HBOR thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such
 party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For  HBOR: 
 
Hrvatska Banka za Obnovu i Razvitak 
 
 
Strossmayerov trg, 9 
 
Zagreb 10000 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
3851 
4591 
523 
     
 
 
Section 6.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HBOR may be taken or executed 
by the President of the Management Board and a member of the Management Board of HBOR or 
such other person or persons as the President of the Management Board shall designate in writing, 
and HBOR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Zagreb, 
Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Anand K. Seth 
 
Director 
 
South Central Europe Country Unit  
 
Europe and Central Asia  
 
HRVATSKA BANKA ZA OBNOVU I RAZVITAK 
 
By /s/  Anton Kova
 ev        /s/ Marija Kolari 
 
Authorized Representatives 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program
 
Part A
:
Guaranty Facility Account
1. 
HBOR shall establish a Guaranty Facility Account for the Partial Credit Guarantee 
Facility, on its books and for the purposes of implementing Part C of the Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
HBOR shall manage and use the proceeds of the Guaranty Facility Account in a manner 
consistent with the purposes and objectives of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and in 
accordance with provisions of the PIP, including but not limited to using the proceeds of the 
Guaranty Facility Account exclusively for making payments in connection with calls on 
guarantees provided to the Participating Banks or the Co-financing Bank issued pursuant to the 
respective Guarantee Facility Agreement. 
3. 
HBOR shall act prudently and reasonably in exercising its management obligations in 
respect of the Guaranty Facility Account, including prudently investing the proceeds of the 
Guaranty Facility Account, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall deposit income 
deriving from subrogation recoveries directly into said Guaranty Facility Account. 
4. 
HBOR shall promptly refund to the Bank any withdrawals or payments from the 
respective Guaranty Facility Account, including any investment income generated therefrom, at 
the option of the Bank, if: 
(a) 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the investment income generated therefrom) was used for any 
expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(b) 
the Bank shall have determined, at any time, that the Recipient or HEP or HBOR 
shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations under HEP GEF Grant 
Implementation Agreement or HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement, respectively; 
(c) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the investment 
income generated therefrom) were made: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or      
(ii) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
(d) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the investment 
income generated therefrom) were made under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or HEP or 
HBOR during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient or HEP or 
HBOR having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation; or 
Page  10
-
9
-
(e) 
PIP has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project or the attainment of its objectives. 
5. 
HBOR shall carry out the following with respect to expenditures funded with 
withdrawals from the Guaranty Facility Account:   
(a) 
maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;  
(b) 
retain for at least one year after the Project Closing Date, all records evidencing 
such expenditures;  
(c) 
enable the Recipient and the Bank to examine such records; and  
(d) 
ensure that the audit reports contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to 
whether the records and accounts submitted for the relevant audit, together with the procedures 
and controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Part B
:
Deposits to the Guaranty Facility Account from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
1. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Guaranty Facility Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the amounts from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
deposit into the Guaranty Facility Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
HBOR shall execute a Guarantee Facility Agreement in form and substance 
acceptable to the Bank, with a Participating Bank for a guarantee commitment not to exceed the 
equivalent of $300,000 or such other amount as may be agreed upon by the Bank from time to 
time (the Guarantee Facility Liability Limit), and with a Co-financing Bank for a guarantee 
commitment not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000, and, for each executed Guarantee Facility 
Agreement, furnish the Bank with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said Guarantee Facility 
Agreement has been duly authorized and executed in compliance with the provisions of the PIP 
and this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
subsequent to execution of each Guarantee Facility Agreement, HBOR shall 
submit, through the Recipient, a request to the Bank for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit to the Guaranty Facility Account of an amount equivalent to the 
Guarantee Facility Liability Limit. 
2. HBOR 
shall: 
 
(a)  
prior to entering into respective Guarantee Facility Agr
eement, obtain the Bank’s 
approval of: (i) all Guarantee Facility Agreements between HBOR and the Co-financing Bank; 
and (ii) all Guarantee Facility Agreements between HBOR and the Participating Banks; and  
 
(b)  
prior to entering into the first two transaction guarantee commitments under any 
Guarantee Facility Agreement, obtain the Bank’s approval on contractual arrangements for said 
transaction.    
Page  11
-
10
-
3. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Guaranty Facility Account will not be required to cover further guarantee commitments to 
Participating Banks or to the Co-financing Bank, HBOR shall, promptly upon notice form the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount; 
 
(b) 
HBOR may, upon notice to the bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Guaranty Facility Account; 
 
(c) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph 
shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal of for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank has the right to terminate disbursements into the Guaranty Facility Account of 
HBOR in the event that: 
(a) 
HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement, or any provision thereof, is 
amended, suspended, abrogated, waived or repealed by the Recipient or HBOR, without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank, and such amendment, suspension, abrogation, waiver or repeal 
materially and adversely affects the ability of the Recipient or HBOR to perform any of its 
obligations under HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement; 
(b)    
any authority having lawful jurisdiction shall have taken any action for 
dissolution or disestablishment of HBOR, or for the suspension of its operations, and such 
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension shall materially and adversely affect the ability of 
HBOR to carry out their respective obligations under HBOR GEF Grant Implementation 
Agreement;  
(c)  
HBOR fails to fulfill its obligations under HBOR GEF Grant Implementation 
Agreement; or 
(d)  
the charter of HBOR is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a 
manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the ability of:   
(i) the Recipient to effectively implement its obligations under the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement or HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement; or (ii) HBOR to effectively carry 
out its obligations under HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement. 
Part C
:
Withdrawals from the Guaranty Facility Account
1. 
HBOR shall make withdrawals from the Guaranty Facility Account only for payments 
made  in  accordance  with  a  call  on  a  guarantee  issued  to  a  Participating  Bank  or  to  the               
Co-financing Bank in accordance with a Guarantee Facility Agreement, as a result of a default on 
a
loan by a Beneficiary or an Energy Service Provider, for which the provider of said loan is 
unable to secure satisfaction of said loan in accordance with the relevant guarantee agreement. 
2. HBOR 
shall: 
 
(a)   
within thirty (30) days of a guarantee call payment, provide to the Recipient and 
the Bank, a written report indicating the reasons for the default, its recovery plan, and its 
Page  12
-
11
-
assessment of the probability of recovery of the amounts in default; and thereafter implement the 
recovery plan as so approved by the Recipient and, if any amounts are determined by HBOR to 
be irrecoverable, obtain the approval of the Recipient to write off such amounts; and  
(b)   
remit payment into the Guaranty Facility Account if a guarantee call payment is 
deemed by the Recipient or by the Bank to be unwarranted, for the amount of said 
payment.
 
