Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  TF 052141 HR 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 7198 HR 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
HRVATSKA ELEKTROPRIVREDA D.D. 
 
Dated November 10, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 052141 HR 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 7198 HR 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF 
Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and HRVATSKA 
ELEKTROPRIVREDA D.D. (HEP). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Croatia (the Recipient) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million Dollars 
($7,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
provided that HEP agrees to undertake such obligations as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a HEP GEF Grant Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and HEP, a portion of the proceeds of the grant provided for under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement will be made available to HEP on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said HEP GEF Implementation Agreement; and 
 
(C) WHEREAS 
HEP
,
in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01.  
(a)  HEP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts B and D of the Project, through HEP ESCO, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, financial and environmental standards and energy 
efficiency practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
HEP shall make available, on the grant basis, the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement to HEP ESCO (the 
Subsidiary Grant) under the HEP ESCO Project Implementation Agreement to be entered into 
between HEP and HEP ESCO, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank.  
 
(c) 
HEP shall exercise its rights under the HEP ESCO Project Implementation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HEP 
shall not assign, abrogate or waive the HEP ESCO Project Implementation Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.02. 
HEP shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B and D of the Project. 
 
Section 2.03. 
HEP shall duly perform all its obligations under the HEP GEF Grant 
Implementation Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, HEP 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the HEP GEF Grant Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) HEP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank and the Recipient with regard to progress of Parts B and D of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the HEP GEF Grant Implementation 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the grant. 
 
(b)  
HEP shall promptly inform the Bank and the Recipient of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and D of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by HEP of its 
obligations under this Agreement and/or under the HEP GEF Grant Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 2.05. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works 
and services required for Parts B and D of the Project to be financed out  of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund  Grant shall be governed by the provision of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.06. 
HEP shall cause HEP ESCO to implement Parts B and D of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the PIP and the HEP ESCO Project Implementation 
Agreement referred to in Part C of Schedule 3 to the GEF Trust Fund Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.07. 
(a) For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, HEP shall   
cause HEP ESCO to provide technical assistance to Beneficiaries for preparation of Energy 
Saving Investments, under contractual arrangements between HEP ESCO and Beneficiaries, 
whereby Beneficiaries shall repay HEP ESCO the amounts provided for technical assistance if 
and when an Energy Performance Service Contract for that respective Energy Savings 
Investment shall have been entered between HEP ESCO and the respective Beneficiary.  
 
(b) 
The funds received by HEP ESCO from the repayments under contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, shall be reinvested into preparation 
and implementation of Energy Saving Investments, in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in the HEP ESCO Project Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 2.08.    (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, HEP shall 
cause HEP ESCO to provide to eligible Beneficiaries goods, works and services for approved 
Energy Saving Investments on the basis of an Energy Performance Service Contract to be 
entered into between HEP ESCO and each Beneficiary under standard terms and conditions 
which shall have been agreed upon with HEP and the Bank and which shall include, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
a description of the Energy Saving Investment, together with the cost 
thereof; 
 
(ii) 
the implementation schedule and implementation arrangements for the 
Energy Saving Investment;  
 
(iii) 
the degree to which cost sharing, in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the PIP, shall be required to be made by the Beneficiary with 
respect to the financing of the Energy Saving Investment for the 
implementation of which assistance is provided to such Beneficiary 
under the Energy Performance Service Contract; 
 
(iv) 
the obligation of HEP ESCO and the Beneficiary to enable 
representatives of HEP and the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to 
visit the facilities or other activities to be financed under the Energy 
Performance Service Contract, and to verify the performance of the 
Energy Saving Investment upon completion of said Investment;   
 
(v) 
the terms and conditions under which the Beneficiaries shall repay HEP 
ESCO for the financing provided for the Energy Saving Investment 
under the Energy Performance Service Contract financed from the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and 
 
(vi) 
the compliance of the Energy Saving Investments with the 
environmental guidelines in the Environmental Management 
Framework. 
 
(b) 
The funds received by HEP ESCO from the repayments under contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, shall be reinvested into preparation 
Page  5
-
4
-
and implementation of Energy Saving Investments, in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in the HEP ESCO Project Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. 
HEP shall cause HEP ESCO to carry out Part D.2 of the Project in 
coordination with HBOR.  
Section 2.10. 
HEP shall cause HEP ESCO to obtain the Bank’s prior approval for the 
first five Energy Performance Service Contracts, and thereafter shall cause HEP ESCO to 
submit for prior approval to the Bank Energy Performance Service Contracts as may be required 
by the Bank from time to time. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of HEP 
 
Section 3.01. 
HEP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices with qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. 
HEP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or shall 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices. 
 
Section 3.03. 
HEP shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.   
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) HEP shall and shall cause HEP ESCO to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to Parts B and D of the Project. 
 
(b) 
HEP shall and shall cause HEP ESCO to: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements), including 
statements in respect of each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(iii)    
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient as soon as available, but in any 
case  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year:             
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
(iv) 
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon HEP’s progress reporting obligations in 
this Agreement, HEP shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts B and D of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds;  
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts B and D of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Parts B and D of the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HEP shall cause HEP 
ESCO to maintain a loss rate on Beneficiaries’ defaults supported by the Partial Credit 
Guarantee Facility under Part C of the Project, not exceeding 5% of the outstanding HEP ESCO 
receivables with respect to Beneficiaries at the end of each fiscal year. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, HEP shall cause HEP ESCO  to 
prepare forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, to review whether HEP ESCO would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, 
and to furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that HEP ESCO would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Recipient’s fiscal years covered by such review, HEP ESCO shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including recovery of energy end-user payments and 
allowance for reasonable recovery costs) in order to meet such requirements. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HEP hereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HEP thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it 
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which 
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at 
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice 
or making such request. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For  HEP: 
 
Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d. 
 
Avenija Vukovar 37 
 
Zagreb 10000 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
385 
1 
61 
70 
439 
        
 
 
Section 6.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HEP may be taken or 
executed by the President of the Management Board of HEP or such other person or persons as 
the President of the Management Board shall designate in writing, and HEP shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Zagreb, 
Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Anand K. Seth 
 
Director 
 
South Central Europe Country Unit  
 
Europe and Central Asia  
 
HRVATSKA ELEKTROPRIVREDA D.D. 
 
By  /s/ Darko Beli
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods, works, and supply and installation contracts shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works, and supply and 
installation contracts, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and supply and installation contracts to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, works, and supply and installation 
contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Commercial 
Practices
Goods, works, and supply and installation contracts under Part B.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $8,520,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of commercial practices acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, 
works, and supply and installation contracts shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) all contracts for goods, works, and supply and installation to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; (b) all contracts for 
goods, works, and supply and installation to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.1 above, for the first five Energy Performance Service Contracts, 
irrespective of the value of the contracts; and (c) all contracts for goods, works, and supply and 
installation to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above and 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more per contract, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999, and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list 
of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
Page  12
-
11
-
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts B and D of the Project estimated to cost less than US$100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for developing HEP ESCO’s capacity to perform under Parts A and B of the 
Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for training courses and study visits under Part D of the Project estimated to 
cost up to an aggregate amount of US$40,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (a) the first contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
irrespective of its value; (b) each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (c) each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms selected in accordance with the method based on Consultants’ Qualifications and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(b) 
With respect to: (a) the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, irrespective of its value; and (b) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of 
the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions 
of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
 
