Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4170-TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2006  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4170-TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 5, 2006, entered into between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a Credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred forty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 140,000,000).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to 
the Recipient. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister responsible for Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
United Republic of Tanzania 
Cable address:   
 
 
Facsimile: 
TREASURY 
 
 
 
(255) 222 11 0326  
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By /s/ Gray S. Mgonja 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Judy O'Connor 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the 
following:
 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
in accordance with paragraph 11 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, made progress in the implementation of the action plan 
for the rationalization of roles, functions and accountability of 
agricultural crop boards, consistent with the Agriculture Sector 
Development Strategy, and has issued a ministerial circular 
requiring all agricultural crop boards to cease charging any 
levies or cess; 
2. 
in accordance with paragraph 16 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, made progress in the implementation of the strategic plan 
for operationalizing its Land Act and Village Land Act, and has 
during the first six months of the FY 2005/2006,  issued at least 
400 certificates of customary rights of occupancy; 
3. 
in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Letter of Development 
Policy drafted and submitted to its Legislative Assembly for 
consideration, the draft Business Activities Registration Bill; 
4. 
in accordance with paragraph 22 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, approved its budget for FY 2005/06 in line with 
MKUKUTA
 implementation, delineating budget codes for budget 
activities related to 
MKUKUTA
 goals and strategies; 
5. 
in accordance with paragraph 21 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, provided its expenditure outturn for FY 2004/05 
consistent with its approved budget for said FY; 
6. 
in accordance with paragraph 37 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, trained its national audit office staff, and completed 
procurement and installation of computer equipment at the 
national audit office to allow future audit through the integrated 
financial management systems; 
Page  7
-
6
-
7. 
in accordance with paragraph 36 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, approved the organizational structure of the Public 
Procurement Regulatory Authority, and has allocated additional 
budgetary resources to the Public Procurement Regulatory 
Authority; 
8. 
 in accordance with paragraph 32 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, made pay enhancement consistent with its approved 
budget for the FY 2006, and the overall thrust of the pay reform;  
9. 
in accordance with paragraph 34 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, defined a process for reform of its public sector 
allowances on the basis of the recommendations of the ongoing 
review under the public sector reform program; and 
10. 
in accordance with paragraph 43 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, carried out a satisfactory health sector review. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General   
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of 
the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
140,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
__________
140,000,000
Page  8
-
7
-
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited 
by the Association into an account designated by the Recipient 
and acceptable to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of 
the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is 
accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be 
used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at 
any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment 
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. Closing 
Date 
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 1 and November 1: 
 
commencing November 1, 2016 to and 
including May 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing November 1, 2026 to and 
including May 1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
a. 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
b.
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), 
published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups 
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by 
notice to the Recipient: 
2. 
Group 
3.   Sub-group 
4.    Description of Item 
5. 
 
112 
6.  
7.    Alcoholic beverages 
8. 
 
121 
9.  
10.  Tobacco, un-manufactured,  tobacco refuse 
11.  
122 
12.  
13.  Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not  
 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
14.  
525 
15.  
16.  Radioactive and associated materials 
17.  
667 
18.  
19.  Pearls, precious and semiprecious  stones,  
 
unworked or worked 
20.  
718  
21.  
718.7 
 
22.  Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear 
 
reactors 
23.  
728 
24.  
728.43  
25.  Tobacco  processing machinery 
26.  
897  
27.  
897.3 
28.  Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group  
 
metals (except watches and watch cases)  
 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares  
 
(including set gems) 
29.  
971  
30.  
31.  Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold  
 
ores and concentrates) 
c. for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  11
-
10
-
d.
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; 
e.  on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
f. 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation. 
2. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 
 
and ending on June 30 of the following year. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated April 4, 2006, received by 
 
the Association from the Recipient, describing the Program (as hereinafter 
 
defined), and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
 
Program during the execution thereof. 
5. 
“Land Act” means the Recipient’s Act No. 4 of 1999 of the Laws of the 
 
Recipient providing for registration, ownership, titling, alienation and other 
 
dealings with individually owned agricultural land in the territory of the 
 Recipient. 
6. 
“Village Land Act” means the Recipient’s Act No. 5 of 1999 of the Laws of 
 
the Recipient providing for registration, ownership, titling, alienation and other 
 
dealings with communally owned land in the rural areas of the territory of the 
 Recipient. 
7. 
“Legislative Assembly” means the parliament or legislative assembly of the 
 
Recipient, established under the Constitution of the Recipient. 
Page  12
-
11
-
8. 
“MKUKUTA” means the Recipient’s National Strategy for Growth and 
 
Reduction of Poverty, dated June 2005. 
9. 
“Public Procurement Regulatory Authority” means the Procurement Regulatory 
 
Authority established and operating pursuant to the Procurement Authority Act 
 
No. 21 of 2004, of the Laws of the Recipient. 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
 
referred to in the letter dated April 4, 2006, from the Recipient to the Association 
 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
 execution. 
11. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
 
1 to this Agreement. 
12. 
“Tranche of the Financing” means the amount of the Financing specified in 
 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the 
Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support     of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“Program” means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
