Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17044
IMPILEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CREDIT No. 2371-0 and 2371-1-MLI
September 22, 1997
AFC15
Water and Urban Unit 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =     CFA Franc (FCFA)
US$1.00           =     FCFA 279 (at appraisal 1992)
US$1.00                 FCFA 575 (at closing 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIPE  Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Inter& Public pour l'Emploi du Mali
(Malian Public Works Executing Agency)
CFD       Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement (French Development Fund)
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency (also ACDI)
DGMP    Direction Generale des Marches Publics
IDA       Intemational Development Association
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Cooperation)
O&M       Operations and Maintenance
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SME       Small and Medium Enterprises
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:    Hasan Tuluy, CD15
Sector Manager:    Letitia Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:   Abdelghani Inal, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................II
PART I: PROJECTF IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................. 1
BACKGROUND ............................................ .1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...............................6
D. SUSTAINABILITY ................................. 7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................8
G. ASSESSMIENT OF OUTCOME .............................                  ..9
H. FUTURE IDPERATIONS ...................................9..              ,..........9
I. KEY             LESSO NS LEARNED ..................................9
PART II: STATIST'ICAL ANNEXES .................................                                                        11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .11..................  I I
TABLE 2: RE:LATED LOANS AND CREDITS ..........................................................              12
TABLE 3: PRIDJECT TIMETABLE .......................................................... 1 3
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....... 13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................                    .................. 14
TABLE 6: ST1JDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ..........................................................            14
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS (IN MILLIONS) .........................................              ................. 15
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING ..........................................................                      15
TABLE 8: EcoNOMIc COSTS AND BENEFITS ....................................................... ... 1 5
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..........................................................                 16
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............                              ............... 17
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..........................................................               18
TABLE 12: EBANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..........................................................              18
APPENDICES
A. MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ................................................................                  19
B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................................................................ 25
C. SUMMARY OF BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT ............................................................... 32
D. MAP IBRD No. 27217
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizatioan.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2371-0 and 2371-1-MLI
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Works and Capacity Building
Project in the Republic of Mali, for which Credit 2371-MLI in the amount of SDR 14.7 million
(US$20 million) was approved on May 26, 1992 and became effective on October 22, 1992. A
Supplemental Credit, Credit 237 1-1-MLI, of SDR 6.9 million (US$10 million) was approved on
November 10, 1994 and became effective on April 4, 1995.
The credit, includings the supplemental credit, was closed as scheduled on March 31, 1997 and the
last disbursement took place on August 18, 1997. The remaining amount of SDR 0.48 million,
resulting from exchange rate variations during the last month, has been canceled. Co-financing
was provided in the order of US$6 million (DM 10 million) by Germany and US$10 million by
Canada (CAN$15 million). The Government of Mali contributed US$3.3 million as counterpart
funding for the project and provided an additional amount of US$36.6 million from the national
budget to carry out additional works.
The ICR was prepared by Abdelghani Inal (Sr. Highway Engineer) and Rumana Huque
(Consultant), and was reviewed by Letitia Obeng (Sector Manager, AFTU2) and Hasan Tuluy
(Country Director, CD 15). Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission that took place from February 16 to March 9, 1997 (the mission's
Aide Memoire is presented in Appendix A). The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its
own evaluation of the project's implementation (Appendix B) and by commenting on the draft ICR.
A Beneficiary Assessment was carried out at project closing and the findings are presented in
Appendix C. Comnients were requested from the Mali Country Team, Technical Specialists, and
Task Managers who had appraised or supervised the project and these were incorporated in this
ICR.
i



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PUFILIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2371-0 and 2371-1 MLI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    In the late 1980s, Mali faced rising unemployment in its capital city, Bamako, due to a
severe drought, the downsizing of the public sector and a weak capacity of the existing private
sector. Unable to meet the rising demand for employment, and given the successful experience of
an innovative approach to employment creation in Senegal, Benin and Burkina Faso--delegated
contract management--the Govenmment of Mali requested IDA to finance a similar program in
Mali.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were: (i) to create temporary employment by means of
labor-intensive technologies; (ii) to increase the productivity of Bamako and its vicinity by means
of a program of urgently needed small-scale public works; (iii) to increase the capacity of the
public sector to orient and manage efficiently its demandfor, and expenditures on, goods and
services and to demonstrate the feasibility of more transparent procurement procedures; (iv) to
improve public procu4 rement by strengthening the Direction Generale des Marches Publics
(DGMP); and (v) to strengthen the capacity of the private sector, small and medium-sized
contractors and consulting firms, to design and execute a wide range of public works.
3 .    The objectives were to be achieved through: (i) a program of labor-intensive urban sub-
projects (72% of total project costs); (ii) technical and managerial assistance to contractors; (iii) an
information and train:ing program for beneficiaries, contractors, and consulting firms; (iv) a
program to increase grassroots participation in sub-project identification and maintenance;
(v) project monitoring; and (vi) procurement reform. These components were to be carried out or
supervised by an autonomous executing agency called AGETIPE or the Agence d 'Execution de
Travaux d 'lnteret Public pour I 'Emploi.
4.    The objectives of the project were realistic. They were based on the lessons learned from
the successful experience with this type of project in other countries in the region. Government was
clearly committed to the concept of delegating works to an autonomous institution. The timing was
appropriate given the urgent need for employment in the city at the time. The supplemental credit
was particularly relevant following the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994.
5.    Three main risks were identified during appraisal: (i) that the volume of employment
creation might fall short of expectations; (ii) that the Agency may misuse its considerable
independence; and (iii) that local contractors and consulting firms may lack the capacity to
implement projects on time. None of these risks have materialized: employment creation has far
surpassed target figures; the Agency is efficient and has excellent relations with Government; and
ii



100 percent of projects are within budget with 90 percent being completed on schedule. Ironically,
the success of the Agency has raised two additional risks that were not identified during appraisal
which might be cause for concern in the future: (i) overload of the Agency as donors and
Government alike try to contract the Agency to carry out their projects; and (ii) the risk that, as the
Agency grows and takes on other contracts, the focus on small-scale sub-projects and local
contractors using labour-intensive technology will be compromised in favour of bigger contracts
using capital intensive technology.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Since its inception, the project has been consistently rated highly satisfactory for both
achievement of development objectives and for implementation status. It disbursed ahead of
schedule and the agency executing the project has maintained a remarkably low average operating
cost of 2.76%.
7.    Achievement of objectives. Achievement of the primary objective, employment creation,
has been substantial. The two IDA credits generated 2.4 million person-days of direct employment
(compared to an original target of 946,000) and CFAF 1.96 billion were spent on wages (to
achieve the target labour ratio of 20%). Between 3.6 and 4.8 million person-days of indirect
employment were also generated. Since the majority of labourers are unskilled workers or
previously unemployed youth, the impact on poverty reduction may be rated substantial.
8.    Achievement of physical objectives has been substantial with approximately CFAF
10 billion spent on creation of basic urban infrastructure in and around Bamako and in the 8
regional capitals. Most of the infrastructure created has contributed to improving the productivity
of Bamako through better roads and transportation, market places, centers for the promotion of
handicrafts, and an improved environment, especially with regard to sanitation and drainage, which
also has a direct impact on the health of the population. Added to the numerous schools, health
centers, youth centers, etc. that the project has financed, the social impact may also be rated
substantial.
9.    The project had two goals with respect to improving public sector management: (i) to
increase the capacity of the public sector to manage effectively its resources and demonstrate to
Government the feasibility of using more transparent procurement procedures; and (ii) to improve
public procurement. Achievement of the first goal has been substantial: the project has helped
municipalities select sub-projects based on rigorous criteria and Government is increasingly using
AGETIPE to carry out civil works, to the extent that currently 30% of all AGETIPE's activities
are financed from the national budget (the IDA credits constitute 18%). With regard to public
procurement, achievement has been partial. The DGMP has improved its procurement processes
considerably by successfully introducing changes in the Procurement Code and passing related
decrees and circulars. However, the changes introduced are still under implementation by the
different sectoral ministries and it will take time to make the entire Government procurement
process fully efficient.
10.   The project has had a substantial impact on private sector development. Opportunities
provided by the Agency and the infusion of funds has led to a substantial increase in the number of
enterprises and firms in the building and construction industry of Mali and has introduced
significant competition in the sector. Between 1992 and 1997, the number of qualified enterprises
rose from 166 to 1288, with 561 enterprises receiving contracts from AGETIPE at least once, and
iii



the number of qualified engineering/consulting firms rose from 36 to 156, with 76 firms having
received at least one contract. The capacity of firms has improved, with a number having
"graduated" from one level to a higher one, capable of handling larger contracts. The quality of
works executed is also improving.
II.   Economic Evaluation. Economic rates of return vary for different types of sub-projects.
For a sample of sub--projects, the internal rate of return (used as a proxy for the economic rate of
return) for 70% of the sub-projects ranged from 9 to 50% with an average rate higher than 17%.
12.    Costs and delays. The credits disbursed ahead of schedule. Government made
counterpart payments with no delays, and, in fact, has surpassed by far the amount it was expected
to contribute to the project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.    Overall, the project met and surpassed the majority of its objectives and has had a large
and positive impact on the employment situation in the country, on the physical environment, and
on private sector development. It has successfully introduced a new institutional model to
implement works on behalf of the public sector in an efficient, effective and transparent way. It
should be noted, however, that AGETIPE activities represent less that 10% of total public
investment in the buSilding and construction industry, indicating that there is much room for
expanding the concept of delegated contract management to the rest of Government.
14.    Sustainabiliity of the system of delegated contract management and of AGETIPE seems
likely given the fact that both Govenmment and donors are increasingly using AGETIPE to
implement projects. Sustainability of the sub-projects is a separate issue and relates to the quality
of operations and maintenance (O&M) carried out on the infrastructure created through the
project. This remains a weakness as O&M is not carried out adequately due to the weak technical
and financial capacities of the municipalities--issues that this project did not aim to address. The
project attempted in a small way to involve communities in O&M through the creation of health
and sanitation committees. The impact of these interventions, however, has been limited. Learning
from these lessons, the follow-up operation approved in December 1996, the Urban Development
and Decentralization Project (ITF N004), includes an important design to strengthen the
municipalities, with a view specifically to improving O&M of sub-projects.
15.   Key Lessons. The project showed that an autonomous, privately managed, local agency is
capable of executing works efficiently, without the help of external technical assistance.
*  Success through an autonomous and transparent institutional model. The success of this
institutional moclel lies in its autonomy from Government bureaucracy and its transparent
business processes which, in turn, have depended on: (i) Government's support of the project
and willingness to delegate works; (ii) an appropriate and flexible manual of procedures; and
(iii) an experienced and committed Director General and skilled staff.
*  Developing capacity for O&M to ensure sustainability of sub-projects. Since the primary
responsibility fo r O&M lies with municipalities, the financial and technical capacities of
municipalities need to be strengthened in parallel in any future project. An important element
in sub-project sustainability is the involvement of communities, both at the sub-project
iv



selection stage and in O&M. As an Executing Agency, AGETIPE is perhaps not the best
placed to promote community participation--this is another area where municipalities' skills
and approaches could be developed.
*  The need for decentralization and replication. As the Agency's portfolio grows, it needs to
hire and train additional personnel and decentralize to other regions. Altematively,
Government can encourage replication of the Agency in different regions and/or different
sectors, thereby also promoting competition in delegated contract management.
*  Payments without delay to ensure development of local contractors. The Agency has to
ensure that payments are made with minimum delays as quick payments are crucial to the
survival of small firms. The Agency also needs to make sure that sub-projects are small-scale
to provide easy entry for small firms.
*  Technical assistance to improve the quality of works. Since many contractors and firms are
new entrants in the industry with little experience, technical assistance focusing on the quality
of works needs to be provided, especially to contractors.
V



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PUIBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2371-0 and 2371-1 MLI
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    In the years following the severe drought of 1983-85, the capital city of Mali, Bamako,
experienced extremely rapid population growth and rising unemployment, with total population
almost doubling to 850,000 in 1990. The city was unable to meet the rapid increase in demand for
employment due to: i) the downsizing of the public sector in the context of the Structural
Adjustment Program; ii) the weak capacity of the existing private sector; and iii) the low level of
skills and education of many of the newcomers to the city. Overall economic difficulties in the
country also meant that much of the public infrastructure in the country was insufficient,
inadequately maintained and in need of rehabilitation.
2.    This combination of factors, and the successful experience with an innovative approach to
employment creation through what are now commonly called AGETIP projects in Senegal, Niger,
Burkina Faso and Be:nin, prompted the Government of Mali to request IDA to finance a program
of essential, small-scale public works aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining urban infrastructure
and public facilities, which would be administered by an autonomous agency using labour-
intensive technologies. The execution of this program was expected to have a positive impact on
urban productivity and economic growth; the use of labour-intensive technologies would contribute
to increased employmrent levels (at least in the short-term); and new opportunities would be
provided for the local private sector which would support, effectively, the reforms being carried out
at the macro level.
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Al.   Project Objectives
3.    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 10422-MLI, May 6, 1992), the main
objectives of the project were: (i) to create temporary employment during project implementation
by means of labor-intensive technologies (wherever these are economically efficient) and contribute
to employment creation in the long run by showing that such technologies are indeed feasible; (ii)
to increase the productivity of Bamako and its vicinity by means of a program of urgently needed
small-scale public works; (iii) to increase the capacity of the public sector to orient and manage
efficiently its demand for, and expenditures on, goods and services and to demonstrate the
feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparent procurement procedures and contract
administration; (iv) to improve public procurement in general by strengthening the Direction
Generale des Marches Publics (DGMP), and (v) to strengthen the capacity of the private sector
1



(particularly small and medium-sized contractors, informal subcontractors, and consulting firms)
to design, implement and supervise a wide range of public works.
4.     To achieve these objectives, the project financed the following activities: (a) A Program of
Labor-Intensive Sub-projects (US$22.04 million or 72% of total project costs) financing essential
small-scale public works aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining urban infrastructures, to be
carried out by local contractors using labor-intensive technologies; (b) Technical and Managerial
Assistance to Contractors (US$1.55 million); (c) An Information and Training Program
(US$0.28 million) for beneficiaries, contractors, and consulting firms; (d) A Program to Increase
Grassroots Participation (US$0.25 million) in sub-project identification and maintenance; (e)
Project Monitoring (US$0.37 million); (f) Procurement Reform (US$1.04 million) to strengthen
the DGMP to carry out its activities and to provide consulting services for drafting standard
bidding and contract documentation. These components were to be carried out or supervised by an
autonomous executing agency called AGETIPE or the Agence d 'Excution des Travaux d 'Interet
Public pour I 'Emploi.
5.    The project disbursed ahead of schedule, meeting and surpassing most of the performance
indicators by the mid-term review (Table 5). As a result, and following the devaluation of the CFA
franc in January 1994, a supplemental credit of US$10 million was approved in November 1994 to
carry out additional sub-projects under Component (a).
A2.   Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
6.    The objectives of the project were realistic. They were based on the successful experience
with this innovative system of delegated contract management in other countries in the region,
especially Senegal, taking into account valuable lessons leamed from that experience. At
appraisal, the Government of Mali had already expressed its commitment to promoting the growth
of the private sector through agreements under the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project
(Cr. 1937-MLI), under which some 1,500 civil servants who had left the public service were given
assistance to create their own enterprises, and under the Fifth Highway Project (Cr. 1629-MLI),
under which it had agreed to contract out increasingly large portions of road maintenance to the
private sector. Thus, the Government's willingness to delegate some of its functions to an
autonomous private sector agency was clear from the beginning.
7.    The appropriateness of the primary objectives of the project, creation of employment and
capacity building, was highlighted following the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994.
The devaluation resulted in an increase in urban poverty and unemployment that was expected to
persist until the supply response to the devaluation materialized. The existence of an established,
high performing agency (AGETIPE) and the development of contractors which were capable of
creating temporary jobs in an efficient manner while improving urban infrastructure, enabled IDA
and the Government, through the supplemental credit of US$ 10 million, to respond quickly and
visibly to the negative effects of the devaluation without jeopardizing the longer-termn objectives of
effective and efficient use of scarce resources.
8.    Three main risks were identified during appraisal: (i) that the volume of employment
creation might fall short of expectations; (ii) that the Agency may misuse its considerable
independence; and (iii) that local contractors and consulting firms may lack the capacity to
implement projects on time. None of these risks have materialized: employment creation has far
2



surpassed target figures; the Agency is efficient and has excellent relations with Government; and
100 percent of projects are within budget with 90 percent being completed on schedule. However,
it should be noted that the risks have been avoided due to a concerted effort by both the Bank and
counterparts in the country to: (i) maintain the focus on the labour-intensive nature of contracts;
(ii) ensure that the Director General of the Agency is someone that the Government and IDA trust
to handle public funids in a responsible, efficient and effective manner; and (iii) spread out works in
accordance with the absorptive capacity of the industry. If constant attention to these issues is not
maintained by the Agency (specifically risks i and iii), these risks could still arise for the Agency's
initial objectives (though no longer for the project).
9.    Two additional risks that were not identified during appraisal have arisen due, ironically, to
the very success of AGETIPE. While they too are not risks for the projectper se, they are issues
that AGETIPEs at an advanced stage need to be cautious about:
* Agency overload. When AGETIPEs have proven to be successful and effective, donors and
Government are using the Agency increasingly to execute projects, sometimes overloading the
Agency. If the Agency is not realistic about its capacity to handle the volume of requests it
gets, it might end up compromising its efficiency, specially in its ability to execute works on
time and to pay contractors and firms within a short period. On a similar vein, the Agency
needs to resist th,e pressure to execute projects too quickly as this might compromise the
quality of the works.
* Sustainability of local contractors and employment creation. As the Agency takes on other
projects with bigger contracts, there is a temptation to use capital intensive techniques and
large enterprises. In the future, as the contribution of IDA funds to the Agency's total portfolio
diminishes, it will be solely up to the Agency to continue to carry out small-scale sub-projects
using local contractors and to keep employment creation as one of the overriding goals of its
work.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
B1.   Degree of Achievement of Objectives
10.    Creation of employment. The project aimed to create temporary employment through the
concept of delegated contract management, i.e. creating an autonomous executing agency
(AGETIPE) which oontracts out civil works projects (financed by IDA, the Government and other
donors) to local firms and enterprises that use labour-intensive technologies. Achievement of this
objective has been su4bstantial. By the time of the mid-term review in November 1994, the project
had already met and surpassed most of the performance targets set for the project in its entirety
(Table 5). Because of its excellent performance, AGETIPE attracted funding from other sources im
addition to the IDA credit. By 1994, it had been assigned as the executing agency for other Bank
financed operations (Education, Health, Urban and Highway Projects), as well as signed
agreements with a number of other donors.
11.   Given an exceptional performance in the first phase of its work, and following the
devaluation of the CFAF, a supplemental credit of US$ 10 million was approved by IDA in
November 1994 and became effective in April 1995, to finance the execution of additional sub-
projects. By project closing, AGETIPE had disbursed a total of US$30.5 million under the two
3



IDA credits. 200 sub-projects were financed through the credits, creating 2.4 million person-days
of direct employment (compared to a target of 946,000). Between 3.6 and 4.8 million person-days
of indirect employment were also generated (it is estimated that indirect employment created
through these projects is 1.5-2 times higher than the direct employment created).' A total of CFAF
1.96 billion had been spent on wages to attain a labour ratio of 20% (which was the target labour
ratio). In addition to the IDA credits, AGETIPE has signed contracts with other donors (including
KfW and CIDA, who were co-financiers of the project, as well as other donors) and with the
Government to achieve a cumulative disbursement of CFAF 56.2 billion over the project period,
with CFAF 8.8 billion spent on wages (for an overall labour ratio of 16%), creating a total of 7.5
million person-days of direct employment. Since the majority of labourers are unskilled workers or
previously unemployed youth, poverty reduction through the project may be rated substantial.
12.   In March 1995, a satellite office was opened in Mopti in response to an urgent demand
from the North of the country. The Mopti satellite office services 4 regions in the North (Mopti,
Timbuktu, Gao and Kidal). By March 1997, 135 contracts had been signed in these regions, for a
total of CFAF 5.86 billion, with CFAF 830 million paid in wages and 347,331 person-days of
employment created.
13.    Provision of infrastructure. Achievement of physical objectives has been substantial. Of
the approximately CFAF 10 billion of the IDA credit disbursed in works contracts, 41% financed
sanitation (sewers, drains), 33% small infrastructure (roads, bridges), 24% buildings (schools,
health centers, markets, community centers), and 2% urban development (museums, parking
spaces). Most of the infrastructure created has contributed to improving the productivity of
Bamako and eight other regional capitals through better roads and transportation, market places,
and centers for the promotion and marketing of handicrafts and traditional art. It has also led to an
improved environment, especially with regard to sanitation and drainage which have a direct
impact on the health of the population. Added to the numerous schools, health centers, youth
centers, etc., that the project has financed, the social impact of the project may be rated
substantial. Co-financiers of the project, KfW and CIDA, financed mainly buildings (89% and
96% respectively), with some sanitation and urban development works for a total of approximately
CFAF 6.7 billion.
14.   Improving public sector management. The third objective of the project was to increase
the capacity of the public sector to orient and manage efficiently its demand for, and expenditures
on, goods and services and to demonstrate the feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparent
procurement procedures and contract management. Achievement of this objective has been
substantial. The project helped municipalities select sub-projects on the basis of rigorous criteria,
including economic evaluations. The use of AGETIPE procedures was so successful that the
Government not only met its counterpart funding obligations in full, but also signed other
agreements with AGETIPE to carry out increasingly more sub-projects. By March 1997, 30% of
AGETIPE's activities consisted of contracts financed from the Government budget (compared to
the two IDA credits which constitute 18% of total AGETIPE activities), for approximately CFAF
23 billion. The fact that the Government is increasingly using contract management to carry out
projects financed out of the national budget shows that the project has succeeded in: (i)
I Preliminaryfindings of a beneficiary assessment indicate a spillover effect in the banking and insurance sectors
since all enterprises andfirms accepting AGETIPE contracts are required to have bank accounts and an insurance
policy. Other examples of indirect employment can be witnessed in furniture manufacturing, cement sales,
transportation services, food sales, etc.
4



implementing Government projects efficiently; and (ii) demonstrating to the Government the
feasibility of more efficient and transparent methods of doing business. However, it should be
noted that AGETIPE activities in total represent less than 10% of total public investment in the
building and constnrction industry, indicating that there is much room for expanding the concept of
delegated contract management to the rest of Government.
15.   Improving public procurement. A fourth objective of the project was to improve general
public procurement by strengthening the Direction Generale des Marches Publics (DGMP).
Achievement of this component has beenpartial. Under the project, all the staff of DGMP and
about 30% of staff from other ministries were familiarized with the new Procurement Code
(introduced under the project) and its directives and procedures. The DGMP established the
Cahier des Clauses Administratives GMngrales (CCAG) applicable to procurement for civil
works, and passed Circular No. 005/mb-CAB of May 8, 1992 fixing the number of days a
standard document should take to pass through the chain of processes and signatures to get cleared.
An Arrete was developed recently to state the modalities of application of Decree No. 95-40 1/P-
RM of November 10, 1995 on the Public Procurement Code to shorten the process of clearances
required for the signing of contracts. At the level of the DGMP, the procurement process has
improved considerably. However, the changes introduced are still under implementation by the
different sectoral ministries and it will take time to make the entire Government procurement
process fully efficient.
16.   Private sector development. One of the most remarkable achievement of the project is its
substantial impact on local private sector growth through its focus on delegated contract
management, hiring local consulting firms, engineering firms and contractors (small and medium
enterprises mainly) to carry out all civil works.
Local Private Sector Development
l~~~~~~~~~~  . . . . . . . . .   8>.g. v^;v{-g.-
Qualified Enterises             166        1 288
Qualified Engineering/Consulting Firms   36  156
The opportunities provided by the Agency and the infusion of funds have led to over a seven-fold
increase in the number of local private companies in the building and construction industry: during
the project period, th,z number of qualified enterprises have risen from 166 to 1288, with 561
enterprises having reeeived at least one contract through AGETIPE, and the number of engineering
firms have risen from 36 to 156, with 76 having received at least one contract. While the majority
of enterprises and firms are within Bamako, through the execution of works in other cities and the
opening of the satellite office in Mopti in 1995, other regions are also experiencing growth. The
capacity of firms in the industry has improved as a result of the project. Within four years, 357
enterprises graduated from being "tacherons" (with little or no capital, no skilled personnel,
capable of handling a, maximum of CFAF 5 million of works) to the category of micro-enterprise
(some capital, 1-3 skilled/semi-skilled personnel, capable of handling up to CFAF 25 million of
works). 288 micro-enaterprises graduated to the category of medium enterprise (2-8 skilled/semi-
skilled staff, capable of handling up to CFAF 500 million of works). Technical audits evaluating
the quality of works produced through AGETIPE have been unqualified. However, the Beneficiary
Assessment reveals some dissatisfaction with the quality of works.
5



17.   A total of 3,714 people from consulting, contracting and engineering firms participated in
formal training programs financed by the project in work organization, management, and project
preparation. This is short of the 5,733 participants originally envisaged due to problems with the
time it took to prepare pedagogical materials in the local language and their reproduction and
delivery on time, problems with evaluating the level of skills/backgrounds of participants, and
problems with commitment of some participants to following a course through to the end.
Participants in the training programs evaluated the training as being useful and have requested
more training programs, especially in the more remote areas.
B2.   Economic Evaluation
18.   An economic evaluation of the project was not carried out during appraisal because many
of the sub-projects to be financed had not been decided upon or the data was not available.
However, economic evaluations of sub-projects are continuously carried out by the Agency.
Economic rates of return vary for different types of sub-projects. For one such analysis (which
used the internal rate of return as a proxy for the economic rate of return), projects were divided
into "economic" sub-projects (i.e. they are either revenue-generating or contribute towards
reduction of costs) or "social" sub-projects (i.e. centers for health and education, youth centers,
etc.). Economic projects were further classified into revenue generating projects (Category A);
town halls and civil centers (Category B); roads and bridges (Category C); and sanitation and
drainage (Category D). An analysis of the second batch of sub-projects financed through the credit
(there have been 3 batches) indicate the following results (please see Table 8). Almost half of the
projects in this batch belonged to either Category C or D (roads, bridges, sanitation and drainage),
and a quarter were "social" projects. The intemal rates of return (IRR) on Category C projects
ranged from 9% to 50%, for an average IRR of 24% (there were two outliers, with IRRs of 89%
and 1 79%--for the rehabilitation of a road and the relocation of the central market of Bamako
respectively). Category D projects had an average IRR of 17%, with a range from 8-35%. The
IRR for markets and warehouses (Category A) averaged 12% and for townhalls and civic centers
(Category B) about 2%. IRRs were not calculated for social sub-projects.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   Factors subject to government Control. One of the most important factors that have
helped AGETIPE attain a high level of efficiency has been the support of the Government.
Throughout the duration of the project, the Government has not, in any way, interfered in the day-
to-day operations of the Agency. Different ministries are increasingly recognizing the efficiency
and efficacy of using delegated contract management by having more of their civil works projects
executed using this method. Continued use by Govemrnent of an autonomous executing agency to
implement projects is, ultimately, what will determine whether or not the project has succeeded in
demonstrating to Government the benefits of using delegated contract management.
20.   While implementation of the project has been greatly aided by Government's support and
commitment, sustainability (operations and maintenance) of the infrastructure created under the
project remains a weakness. Regular O&M is not in AGETIPE's mandate. Municipalities are
generally responsible for O&M for urban infrastructure, and inadequate technical and financial
resources at the municipal level have led to insufficient maintenance of the infrastructure created.
6



21.   Factors subject to implementing agency control. AGETIPE has disbursed the two
credits in an efficient and effective manner. Its success can be partly attributed to the commitment
of the Director General (who was involved with the project from the very beginning) and the
expertise of its staff. The Agency has enjoyed considerable autonomy from Government, and has
not abused this privilege. Operating costs of 2.76% on average for duration of the project, are one
of the lowest among all the AGETIP agencies in the region. All works are completed within
budget and 90% of works are executed on time. All audits (financial and technical) have been
unqualified. One area in sub-project execution where AGETIPE has had some difficulty is with
the average time for payments to contractors and firms, which, for the trimester January-March
1997 was about 28 (lays. Although this is still below the ceiling of 30 days established in the SAR,
it is nevertheless fairly high. The reasons for the increase in time taken to pay contractors are: (i)
the increase in the volume of projects being handled by AGETIPE since the Agency now handles
funds from a variety of different donors as well as the Government (the Agency currently processes
a minimum of 300 payment requests per month); (ii) stricter controls recently introduced that
require a longer verification period for payments; and (iii) delays by Government and donors in
replenishing their project special accounts or making committed funds available on time.
D.    Sustainability
22.    The system of delegated contract management introduced through this project represents
an institutional model through which Government can carry out its business in a more efficient and
effective manner. Sustainability of this model needs to be measured at various levels: (i)
Government's commitment to continue using delegated contract management to implement
projects; (ii) the susiainability of the sub-projects realized through the project; (iii) sustainability of
contractors and firms developed by the project; and (iv) sustainability of the Agency itself.
23.    Sustainability of the concept of delegated contract management. AGETIPE's modus
operandi, its transparency in business procedures, its commercial orientation, and its excellent
performance, have won the confidence of donors and of the State. As of March 1997, 70% of
AGETIPE's portfolio consisted of execution agreements with the Government and donors outside
of this project (the LDA credits, combined with co-financing for the project, accounted for only
about a third of its activities). What is more significant is that a full 30% represents Government
projects financed through the national budget. This demonstrates that Government is indeed
committed to using delegated contract management to execute at least some of its work. As long as
the Government and municipalities have resources to spend, and as long as a high performing
executing agency exists to implement projects efficiently, the sustainability of the system of
delegated contract rmanagement seems assured.
24.    Sustainability of sub-projects. Operations and maintenance of works completed by the
Agency have been poor thus far. The project had a small component which aimed to involve
communities in O&M through the creation of health and sanitation committees. The impact of
these interventions has been limited. However, it should be noted that for urban infrastructure,
O&M is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities. The lack of funds and weak
management and technical capacity of municipalities are the principal cause of poor O&M of all
infrastructure in the country, not just those implemented by AGETIPE. This project, which
initially had short-term objectives, did not aim to address these broader issues. However,
experience has shown that if O&M issues are not dealt with, the works created are not maintained
and their usefulness, their impact and their economic lives are much reduced. Learning from these
7



lessons, the follow-up operation approved in December 1996, the Urban Development and
Decentralization Project (ITF N004), includes an important component designed to strengthen the
system for O&M of sub-projects at the municipal level.
25.   Sustainability of private sector firms and contractors. The sustainability of firms and
contractors in the construction industry depends on the quality of the work they do and on the
availability of organizations that have the finances to hire them to carry out projects. Many new
contractors and firrns are entering the industry and are gaining skills and expertise from working on
AGETIPE projects. These skills are transferable, and enable them to bid for contracts outside of
AGETIPE, which effectively represent 90 % of the remaining activity in the construction industry.
Where the quality of work done by the new enterprises and firms might not be the best in the
beginning, it will improve as a result of competition in the sector. Training and assistance directed
at the technical capacity of contractors would expedite this process of improving quality.
26.   Sustainability of AGETIPE. Sustainability of the Agency itself is less relevant because,
as a commercial entity, AGETIPE will survive as long as it has business to do, i.e. as long as
Government and donors are willing to use AGETIPE to implement projects. AGETIPE has proved
to be a sound organization, with qualified staff and low operating costs. It already has a full work
program with confirmed financing for at least the next three years: AGETIPE has yet to disburse
approximately US$35 million in contracts already signed with Government and donors, and under
the follow-up Urban Development and Decentralization Project, AGETIPE has received US$83.3
million to implement works. In addition to this, since Government has been using AGETIPE
increasingly to implement projects out of the national budget, survival of the Agency seems
assured.
E.    Bank Performance
27.   In project identification, preparation and appraisal. The Bank was able to take
advantage of its experience with AGETIP projects in Senegal, Burkina Faso, and Niger in the
design and preparation of this project. Because a model that was operating successfully already
existed, Bank staff were able to work with the Government quickly to customize the design to the
realities facing Mali. Pilot activities were also designed to test the approach. The project was
identified in February 1991 and was appraised in February 1992, within one year. The mix of
Bank staff skills in project preparation was effective--they included staff who had been closely
involved with the AGETIP projects in the other countries, economists, an engineer, and specialists
in the construction industry, in municipal finance and in procurement.
28.   In project supervision. The Bank's supervision of the project was highly satisfactory.
Supervision missions have been carried out consistently ( 11 in total), and there have been no
significant problems. Constant and reliable communication between headquarters and the
AGETIPE office was maintained throughout the project period. There was only one change in task
management, which took place at the beginning of the project, enabling the current Task Tearn
Leader to see the project through from the beginning to the end.
F.    Borrower Performance
29.   Performance of Government. The commitment of Governnent to the project and to the
Agency has been highly satisfactory. The ready availability of Government counterpart funds, the
8



lack of interference by Government in the day-to-day operations of AGETIPE, and the full support
and backing it has provided to the Agency has been identified by the Agency as one of the most
important factors affecting the success of the project. The Government has also complied fully
with all legal covenants. In addition, the Government has delegated the implementation of an
increasing number of projects financed by the national budget to AGETIPE.
30.   Performance of AGETIPE. The performance of AGETIPE as an autonomous executing
agency has been highly satisfactory.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
31.   The project has achieved and surpassed its objectives according to all indicators:
employment creation, development of the private sector, as well as physical infrastructure created.
It has been rated highly satisfactory throughout the supervision period. A Beneficiary Assessment
was carried out at project closing consisting of focus group and structured interviews with a
spectrum of stakeholders (beneficiaries, contractors and consulting firms, municipal staff,
ministries, labourers, and others). The overall impression was that the results and impact of the
project were satisfactory with regard to employment creation, improvement of urban infrastructure,
and capacity building in both the public and private sectors. The main concern raised was that of
the sustainability of sub-projects--the general feeling was that sustainability could not be assumed
given not only the weak involvement of communities in sub-project identification and execution but
also the scarcity of financial resources of the municipalities. However, all stakeholders believed
that administrative decentralization will have a positive effect on the identification and execution of
sub-projects in the mumicipalities. Detailed recommendations from the assessment are outlined in
Annex C.
H.    Future Operations
32.   This project has successfully introduced a new method of implementing civil works
projects in Mali--through a simplified and efficient process of delegated contract management. The
Government and municipalities of ten cities have now employed AGETIPE as the executing agency
for two components of the Urban Development and Decentralization Project (ITF N004, approved
in December 1996), for both the execution of works and for the execution of maintenance of urban
infrastructure. A rural AGETIPE is also expected to come into being in 1998 which will undertake
new types of interventions, as well as take over the activities that AGETIPE currently is carrying
out in rural areas.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
33.   The project showed that an autonomous, privately managed, local agency is capable of
executing works on behalf of public institutions efficiently and effectively, without the help of
external technical assistance. Some of the key lessons learned through the AGETIPE experience in
Mali are the following:
* Success through an autonomous and transparent institutional model. The success of the
institutional model that AGETIPE represents is attributable largely to its autonomy from
Government bureaucracy and its transparent business processes. This, in turn, has depended
9



on Government's commitment and willingness to delegate works (and financial resources) to a
not-for-profit privately managed institution. An appropriate and flexible manual of procedures
has been central to establishing transparency and efficiency in AGETIPE's business processes.
A committed and experienced Director General and skilled staff selected competitively from
the private sector have also been key to its success.
Developing capacity for O&M to ensure sustainability of sub-projects. Since the primary
responsibility for O&M lies with municipalities, the financial and technical capacities of
municipalities need to be strengthened in parallel in any future project. One strategy is being
tried out in the follow-up Urban Development and Decentralization Project which includes
components that aim to: (i) strengthen the management and financial resource mobilization
capacity of municipalities; and (ii) ensure funds for O&M of basic infrastructure by
committing central government and municipalities to deposit funds into a special O&M
account, managed by AGETIPE, before the execution of works. This O&M fund applies to all
basic urban infrastructure, not just those built by AGETIPE, and technical assistance is being
provided (outside of AGETIPE) to enable the municipalities to monitor O&M. Another
important element in sub-project sustainability is the involvement of communities, both at the
sub-project selection stage and in O&M. As an executing agency, AGETIPE may not be the
best placed to promote community participation--this is another area where municipalities'
skills and approaches need to be developed.
-  The need for decentralization and replication. As the volume of works grows, the Agency
needs to hire and train additional personnel and think ahead about decentralizing its functions
to other regions. High level staff need to be trained within the Agency in such a way that they
are able to take up managerial positions in satellite offices. Alternatively, Government can
think about encouraging the replication of the Agency in different regions and/or in different
sectors, thereby also promoting competition in delegated contract management.
-  Payments without delay to ensure development of local contractors. To ensure the
development of local contractors, the Agency has to ensure that payments are made with
minimum delays as quick payments are crucial to the survival of small firms. The Agency also
needs to make sure that sub-projects are small scale to provide easy entry for small firms.
*  Technical assistance to improve the quality of works. Since many contractors and firms are
new entrants in the industry with little experience, technical assistance focusing on the quality
of works needs to be provided, especially to fledgling contractors.
10



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2371-0 and 2371-1 MLI
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                      X
Sector policies                                                                     X
Financial objectives                                                                X
Institutional development                                                           X
Physical objectives             X
Poverty reduction               X
Gender issues                                                                       X
Other social objectives         X
Environmental objectives        X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector development      X
Other                                                                               X
*:.:j5 W Jlk  njbti    :       i   .                 i__________. ......
Identification                  X                      _________
Preparation assistance          X___________
Appraisal                       X               ._________
Supervision                     X__ _ _                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _
iv,, '' BB'orr*w,r  w   ,,','."'ai1,'''a','...................
Preparation                      X X__________
Implementation                  X X
Covenant Compliance             X X
Operation                       X X
11



Table 2: Related Loans and Credits
Preceding operations
Urban Project     Upgrading and sites & services (for  June 1979    Project closed in December 1986.
(Cr. 943-MLI)     about 40,000 people), improvement             Physical works completed successfully.
of Bamakco sanitary conditions,              Financial impact mixed: cost recovery for
assistance to informal sector, water         serviced lots successful; unsuccessful for
supply & garbage collection in               neighborhood upgrading. Institutional
secondary cities                             goals remain elusive. Poverty impact
low--beneficiaries more from higher
income families. Overall project
objectives achieved; benefits appeared
_________________                               ~~~~~~~~~~~generally sustainable.
Second Urban      To remove major infra-structure  April 1986   Project closed in March 1994.
Project           constraints in Bamako; facilitate             Objectives: Highly satisfactory except for
(Cr. 1677-MLI)    private sector housing and                    resource mobilization & allocation.
construction activities; improve             lImplementation: Significant progress
local resource mobilization and              when sub-projects were delegated to
allocation; strengthen the technical         AGETIPE. Legal covenants: Special fund
and managerial capacity of                   for urban development was not created.
municipal agencies.                          Availability of Funds: counterpart funds
=_ _ _ __ _ _ _    L_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _    __ _ __  _   for the  last year was a  problem.
Urban             Build local government           December    Project launched February 1997. Became
Development &     management capacity, improve     1996         effective June 1997.
Decentralization  performance, and revenue
Project           generation; improve the provision
(ITF N004)        of basic urban services, while
improving urban environment and
creating employment; help preserve
Mali's historical cities and
monuments; pursue improvement
in the operation of the urban land
_____ _____ ____ m arket._                       _ _ _ _ _
12



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps ~n Project Cycle                                            1)ate Plarni-d                       Date   atu~l1         t: e    natA
Identification (EPS)                                       n/a                                  February 4, 1991
Preparation                                                n/a                                  February 1991-February 1992
Appraisal                                                  February 1992                        February 11-26th, 1992
Negotiations                                               April 1992                           April 15-17th, 1992
Board Presentation                                         May 1992                             May 26, 1992
Signing                                                                                         July 17, 1992
Effectiveness                                              October 1992                         October 22, 1992
Midterm Review                                             October 1994                         Oct 17-Nov 11, 1994
Supplemental Credit
Approval                                                                                        November 10, 1994
Signing                                                    n/a                                  December 16, 1994
Effectiveness                                                                                   April 4, 1995
Project Completion                                         March 31, 1997                       March 31, 1997
Loan Closing/latest disbursement                           closing July 31, 1997                last disbursement August 18, 1997
Table 4: Loan/c-edit disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$million)
F=                                                                                   :4995.            99              97
Original Appraisal Estimate                         4.0            9.0             14.0             19.0           20.0
Revised Estimate                                    5.04           10.18           15.92           23.52           28.74           29.11
Actual                                              5.28            10.64          16.99           25.38           29.79           30.534
Actual as % of original estimate                    132%            118%           121%             134%           149%            n/a
Actual as % of revised estirmate                   104%           105%            107%            108%             104%           105%
Date of final disbursement                        IAugust 18,1997
Cumulative Estimates vs Actual Disbursements
35                                      d...         .. .....    .e.
30.   :. .   . . .   .   .          . . . .   . . : - ::
,~~~~~~~~.      . . . .     :  ., .:  ..   :..,  .. ..   ..     ..     ..     ..     ..     ...........     . . . .
10                                                                                          A ctua.   : ....  .
..         . ,   ..     .--. ..     .....     ..     ..     ..   ..     .......,  . , j ..     ..,--...    .,..
.          0.. . :. : i:. . . . .                       ......   ..   ...I. ..... . -
15 ..   ..   .. .. .   ..                  . . .
.. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .   .... .              . .  :  .       .::::::::
25                           <                             . -  . - -. - -.-. -. -. :. -.-:-::....:
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                             .. -..  .....  ........ --
O               -- -- -    - -- -- -- -- ---- -- -- I-.  . .... ........   ......... ................  ..   ....   ... ......I  
I     FY93          FY94           FY95          FY96           FY97          FY98
13



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
*  IfBtial      Realied- by    .Ac0tuaYlX
. _................ ,                               e      9          99.
Number of execution agreements           158            160             291
Number of sub-project contracts signed   320            285             467
Number of contracts fully executed       140            224             467
Percentage of contracts on time          75 to 100      87              90
(by year 4)                   _____
Percentage of contracts within budget    75 to 100      88              100
(by year 4)
Percentage of payments within 30 days of   75 to 100    100             100
invoice receipt                          (by year 4)
Number of person days of employment      946, 000       1, 366, 000     5,571,807
created
Person-days of employment created per    190            286             242
CFAF million_________                                                      _____
Indicators were based on the following assumptions: average size of contract will be CFAF
38 million, which is similar to the average size of pilot sub-projects; about US$21.6 million of the
total project funds (IDA+4Government+Germany) will be used on the public works component; at
least 20% of funds will go to daily wages of about CFAF 1 ,071 including social security payments.
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
-~~~~~~~~~2r~~ie  at Aeria ;  I*n~to
~~~~~~~~~............                                                .....     ..    ....    .......  ...000  
Technical Audit                _           Mid-term Review                Done         Useful
Technical Handbook (for workers)         0Training                        Done         Useful
Maintenance Assessment                     Sub-project maintenance        Done         Useful
Procedures Manual                         Review of manual                Done         Useful
Mapping of 10 Cities                       Preparation of Urban Project   Done         Useful
Mopti Sanitation Strateg                   Preparation of Urban Project   Done         Useful
Project Assessment by Beneficiaries        Part of project closing        Done         Useful
14



Table 7A: Project Costs (in millions)
..   . .   . .. ...   ...   .   ..r
,~~~~ '"'"'"'''""''""''' '"'''":"''"'"""       "''"'""                         '  "' ..    ..   ...  ......  . ....  ...  ........
Public works (including Supplemental Credit)              15.7           22.04           15.872            23.031
Consultants' services arid training                       1.8            2.45            1.611             2.329
Equipment for AGETIP]_-Mali                              0.275           0.37            0.283             0.405
Operating costs of AGE.PE-Ma                              1 .3           1 .77           1.402             2 .020
Equipment and office supplies for DGMP                   0.5             0.68            0.489             0.687
Consultants' services and training for DGMP              0. 265          0.36            0.261             0.37
PPF Refinancing                                           1              1.35            0.756             1.076
Unallocated (Special Ac count)                           0.76             1              0.439             0.613
TOTAL                                                    21.6            30             21.113             30.533
Table 7B: Project Financing
..   .   ........   ..... -                     .....,.,.. . .... .............................................  -. . . . . . . . . . . . ......  . ......................... ...  .  .......   ...............
:-sonrc           -      Api  t - :-       Su1expl Stt  -   -tal-                                  A dtt
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......               .......  ...     .   E-'a .....
~~~~~~~..           .   .. : .   .    .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        ..i.e.C
Publicworks inclu ingSplmnta l  Credit)            17              22tim 0t      (15.87              23uremii   0319
US $million       US$million           US$million       Currency                 US$million
IDA                   20.00              10.00                30.00            SDR 21.1I million        30.5
Government Tn 2.22                       1 .11                3.33             CFAF 22.9 billion        50.0
KfW                 T6.0                 0                    6.00             DM  10 million           6.0
|   CIDA     Tp 0.0a                    0                    0.00             CAN$15million            11.5
TOTAL                  28.22             11.11                39.33                                     US$98.0
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
First batch:
Categor y A (markets, warehouses)                1             2          ...    30%                       30%
Category B (town halls, civic centers)           1             2 .  ..          3%                         3%
Category C (roads, bridges)                      12            24        .           3-60% 3.1.3%
Category D (sanitation, drainage)                17            35       ....    12-60%                     32.5%
Category  E (social projects)                    18            37 ...na                                    na
Second batch:
Category A (markets, warehouses)                 8             12               6-30%                      12%
Category B (town halls, civic centers)           14            18               2%                         2%
Category  C     (roads, bridges)                 15            20                                  ...9-50%  39%
Category D (sanitation, drainage)                19            25 .             8-35%                      17%
Category  E (social projects)                    19            25 ....n/a                                  n/a
15



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreeme   ~=a Do~~n  St[sUui d . .D =                             gti &uc   -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ................................. ....... ................. .... : d................ ... ............... ................
Section        10           C        Continuous                  Borrower to carry out project with   Full
3.01(a)                                                          due diligence and efficiency and    compliance
to provide funds, facilities,
services required for the project
Section        10           C        Continuous                  Borrower to protect interests of    Full
3.01(b)                                                          self and IDA and, unless            compliance
otherwise agreed, shall not amend
or waive the Convention
Section        10           C        04/30/1993                  AGETIIPE to adopt not later than    Full
3.01 (c)(i)(A)                                                   6 months after effectiveness, the   compliance
final versions of the action plan
for technical and managerial
assistance_______
Section        04           C        09/30/1993                  AGETIPE will execute a program    Full
3.01 (c)(i)(B)                                                   of new sub-projects representing    compliance
an aggregate of $450,000
__________equivalent (Government funds)      ______
Section        04           C        09/30/1994                  AGETIIPE will execute a program    Full
3.01(c)(i)(B)                                                    of new sub-projects representing    compliance
an aggregate of $600,000
_                       _            ~~~~~~~~~~~equivalent (Government funds)
Section        04           C        09/30/1995                  AGETIIPE will execute a program    Full
3.01 (c)(i)(B)                                                   of new sub-projects representing    compliance
an aggregate of $750,000
equivalent (Government funds)
Section        04           C        09/30/1 996                 AGETIPE will execute a program    Complied
3.01 (C)(i)(B)                                                   of new sub-projects representing    with
an aggregate of $2.22 million
equivalent (Government funds--
_                        _           ~~~~~~~~total 1993-1996)            _____
Section        10           C        09/30/1993                  AGETIPE to submit for approval    Full
3.01 (c)(i)(C)                                                   an annual program of sub-projects   compliance
= ~~~~~~~~representing at least $6.3 million
Section        10           C        09/30/1994    10/10/1 994 TAGETIPE to submit for approval    Full
3.01 (C)(i)(C)                                                  |an annual program of sub-projects   compliance
_____________ __________~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                representing at least $7.4 million
Section        10           C        09/30/1995                  AGETIPE to submit for approval    Complied
3.01(C)(i)(C)                                                   |an annual program of sub-projects   with
_____________ __________~~ ~ ~ ~~                 representing at least $7.8 million
Section 3.02    10, 05      C        Continuous                 |The position of Director General,   Full
|AGETIPE-Mali, must be filled at   compliance
|all times by a person whose
|experience and qualifications are
____________~~~~~~~~~~~ acceptable  to  IDA_ _ _ _ _ _
........ ~~~ ...
Section 3.03    10          C        Continuous    Procurement shall be carried out    Full
___________   ___________________                 according  to  DCA                  compliance
Section 3.04    10, 09      C        10/31/1993   10/10/1994 |AGETIPE and IDA to carry out a    Full
|mid-term review,                   compliance
Section        10, 09       C        Continuous                 |Borrower to submit to IDA           Complied
3.05(a)                                                          quarterly reports on number and     with
|amount of contracts monitored by
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   D G M P
16



Section      10, 09     C        10/31/1 993             Borrower and IDA to carry out  Full
3. 05(b)                                                 assessment of the implementation   compliance
of Borrower's procurement
_                          ~~~~~~~~~~reforms
Section      10C                 Continuous              Borrower to take all necessary  Complied
3.05(e)                                                  measures to implement          with
recommendations pertaining to
Part D of the project (procurement
reform component)
Section      01         C        Continuous              AGETIPE to maintain records and  Complied
4.01(a)                                                  accounts adequate to reflect sound  with
____                               accounting practices
Section      01         C        Continuous              AGETIPE to have accounts,       Complied
4.01(b)                                                  records, financial statements   with
audited every 6 months, and
furnish IDA with audit report no
later than 3 months after closing
_______   __________  ~  of period  audited
Section      01         C        Continuous              For all expenditures made by    Complied
4.01(c)                                                  SOE, AGETIPE shall maintain     with
records and furnish IDA with
semi-annual audit reports as
____         _____                 mentioned in para. 4.01(b)
Section      10         C        Continuous              AGETIPE to take out and         Complied
5.01(a)      ______    ______ _______.._                  maintain insurance            with
Section      10, 05     C        Continuous              AGETIPE to carry out its        Complied
5.01(b)                                                  operations and conduct affairs in    with
accordance with sound practices,
with qualified staff in adequate
____                                     number
Section 5.02   10, 09   C        Continuous              Borrower and IDA agree that     Complied
obligations under General      with
Conditions shall be carried out by
._.........._........ _  _ _ _ _ ___  A G ETIIPE                     _ __-_ _
T;able 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Fully complied with.
17



Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    ..  x.x'-..  -.- . .. --
We. s*    U$$.    WePksm  JX.'~    We-. l ..... .s ...
Preparation to appraisal             n/a       n/a       n/a        n/a      45.3      119 500
Appraisal                            n/a       n/a       n/a        n/a       16.5     48 100
Negotiations through Board approval  n/a       n/a       n/a        n/a      3         8 800
Supervision                          19        46 800    13         34 500   46.6      146 800
Completion                           10         19 000    9         17 700   5.9       10 900
TOTAL                                                                         117.3    334 100
* Planned and revised figures are for FY96, FY97 and FY98 only.
** Actuals are as of September 2, 1997. Actual cost figures include consultant fees and travel expenses for staff and
consultants.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Preparation    1991-    n/a        n/a      EC, OA, PS,     n/a           n/a           n/a
1992                        CIS, HE
Appraisal      1992     n/a        n/a      EC, PS, CIS,    n/a           n/a           n/a
through Board                               HE
approval
Effectiveness    Jun 92   1        18 days  HE              n/a           n/a           None
Review
Supervision 1   Oct 92   2         5 days   EC, EC          1             1             None
Supervision 2    Jan 93    1       4 days   EC              1             1             None
Supervision 3    May 93   1        3 days   EC              1             1             None
Supervision 4    Nov 93   2        21 days  HE, YP          1             1             None
Supervision 5    Mar 94   1        3 days   CIS             n/a           n/a           None
(Monitor effect
of devaluation)                   __=__
Supervision 6    June 94   1     l 21 days  HE              HS            HS            None
Supervision 7    Oct-   5          30 days  HE, CIS, EC,    HS            HS            None
(Mid-term      Nov 94                       PS
Review)
Supervision 8    May 95   1        18 days  HE              HS            HS            None
Supervision 9    Nov 95   l        5 days   HE              HS            HS            None
Supervision 10   Feb 96   1        3 days   HE              HS            HS            None
Supervision 11   Mar 97   3        7 days   HE, PS, UP      HS            HS            None
& Cormpletion
* Key to Specializations                         ** Key to Perfornance Ratings
EC  Economist                                    1 = Problem Free
OA = Operations Advisor                          HS = Highly Satisfactory
HE = Highway Engineer
CIS = Construction Industry Specialist
YP = Young Professional
PO  Projects Officer
PS = Procurement Specialist
UP = Urban Planner
18



ANNEX A
MALI
PROJ13T DE TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L'EMPLOI
Cr 2371
Derniere Mission de Supervision
(16f6vrier- 09 mars 1997)
Aide-memoire
1.    Une mission. de 1'IDA, conduite par M. Abdelghani Inal, charg6 du projet, et comprenant
Mme Rumana Huque (urbaniste) et M. Bernard Abeille (specialiste en passation des marches), a
sejoumr au Mali entre le 16 fevrier et le 9 mars 1997 pour effectuer, entre autes, la demiere
mission de supervision du projet susmentionne, mission coincidant avec celle du seminaire de
lancement du Projet Developpement Urbain et Decentralisation ou AGETIPE, seconde generation,
est agence d'exdcution de deux importantes composantes. La mission a laiss6 avant son d6part le
present aide-memoire qui r6sume ses observations et conclusions.
2.     La mission ltient a exprimer ses plus vifs remerciements a S.E.M. Boubacar Gaoussou
Diarra, Ministre de ]'emploi et de la Fonction Publique, et a tout le personnel d'AGETIPE pour
l'excellence de leur accueil et leur entiere cooperation. La mission pr6sente toutes ses felicitations a
l'equipe de l'Agence pour l'excellente execution du projet et pour le depassement de tous ses
objectifs.
3.     Tous financements confondus, le bilan d'AGETIPE octobre 1992-decembre 1996:
106 projets realises ou en cours de realisation
566 sous-projets
1 750 marches de travaux signes
1 480 contrats de maitrise d'oeuvre signes
73 milliards de FCFA de financement
50 inilliards de FCFA decaisses
7 300 000 emplois/jours cres
8,3 milliards de FCFA de salaires
1 280 entreprises qualifiees
2,7(%o de ratio de gestion
19



4.     Le present aide-memoire resume les principales conclusions de la mission. Les points ci-
dessous sont passes en revue:
point d'avancement du projet;
objectifs et composantes principales;
appr6ciations sur l'atteinte des objectifs;
mise en oeuvre du projet;
perennite
Point d'avancement du projet
5.     Le Credit 2371-MLI de 20 millions $ a e approuve le 26 mai 1992 et est entre en vigueur
le 22 octobre 1992. Un credit supplementaire (credit 2371-1-MLI) de 10 millions$ a 6te approuve
le 20 octobre 1994 et est entre en vigueur en novembre 1994. Le credit ainsi que le credit
supplementaire ont ete decaisses a hauteur de 91% a fin decembre 1996 et seront cl6tures comme
prevu le 31 mars 1997, avec une prevision de decaissement de 100%. L'Agence dispose jusqu'a fin
Juillet 1997 pour faire parvenir a l'IDA toutes les factures a payer. La contrepartie de l'Etat etait
pr6vue en realisation de sous-projets par l'Agence pour environ 3,3 milliards de FCFA sur le
Budget national; le volume de ces realisations atteint 15 milliards de FCFA a fin 1996, soit pres du
triple des prdvisions. L'Agence intervient a travers tout le pays.
6.     La cooperation financiere allemande (KfW) a apporte un financement parallele de 15,3
millions de DM, et l'ACDI un financement de 15 millions de dollars canadiens. L'Agence a par
ailleurs execute a fin 1996 en maitrise d'ouvrage delegu6e confiee par d'autres projets 17,5
milliards de FCFA (sur 30 milliards de FCFA de conventions signees).
7.     Le ratio moyen de gestion de I Agence (montant des projets realises rapporte au montant
des couits de I 'Agence) depuis sa creation a ce jour est de 2,73%; il est de 1, 8% pour V 'ann6e
1996.
Objectifs et composantes principales
8.     Les objectifs principaux du projet etaient:
Creation d'emplois temporaires grace a des techniques a haute intensite de main
d'oeuvre;
Accroitre la productivite urbaine a Bamako et ses environs par des travaux d'interet
public a petite echelle;
Rendre le secteur public a meme d'orienter et g6rer plus efficacement sa demande de
travaux, de foumitures et de services;
Demontrer la faisabilite de procedures de passation et de gestion de marches moins
lourdes et plus transparentes;
Ameliorer la passation des marches publics en renforcant la Direction Generales des
Marches Publics (DGMP); et
Rendre le secteur prive mieux performant pour concevoir, executer et superviser une
large gamme de travaux publics et ameliorer les competences individuelles des
ouvriers.
20



9.     Le projet comprenait une composante principale qui representait la plus grande partie du
projet ainsi que plus:ieurs composantes qui s'y rattachaient:
Prograrnme principal des sous-projets a haute intensite de main d'oeuvre (US$ 20.24
millions ou 72% du cofit global): il s'agissait de travaux publics ai petites dimensions
visant a rehabiliter et entretenir l'infrastructure urbaine, p.ex. routes, drainage, collecte
des ordiures;
Prograrnme d'assistance technique et de gestion (US$ 1.55 millions): trois modules
6taient offerts aux entreprises (gestion administrative et financiere, organisation des
travaux destinee aux contremaitres et formation technique pour ameliorer les
competences de base des employes);
Prograrame d'information et de formation (US$ 0.28 million): diffusion des
connaissances sur les objectifs et methodes des projets entre les beneficiaires, les
entrepreneurs et les bureaux d'etudes;
Programme destine a accroditre la participation communautaire (US$ 0.25 million):
diffusion d'inforrnations et de sensibilisation, particulierement a l'attention des
beneficiaires directs;
Programme de suivi (US$ 0.37 million): supervision reguliere et stricte du projet;
Execution de la reforme de la passation des march6s (US$ 1.04 million): formation du
personnel de la DGMP et des principaux ministeres techniques, achat du materiel ou
d'autres. installations pour la DGMP et services de consultants pour etablir des cahiers
de charges.
Appreciation de la realisation des objectifs
10.    Les r6sultats du projet sont entierement satisfaisants, allant au-dela des valeurs des
indicateurs prevus pour tous les objectifs principaux: creation d'emplois, developpement du secteur
prive et de capacites techniques des entreprises ainsi qu'infrastructures realisees. Ddja au moment
de la revue a mi-parcours en novembre 1994 le projet avait atteint sinon depasse la plupart des
objectifs cibles. Pendant les deux premieres ann6es: (i) AGETIPE a signe 160 conventions de
maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee (compar6 a l'objectif de 158 conventions pendant 4 ans); (ii)
AGETIPE a achev6 224 des 285 marches sign6s pour l'execution des sous-projets (compare a
l'objectif de 140 projets executes a la fin de la quatrieme ann&e); et (iii) a cre6 1 366 000 journees
de travail (compare ai l'objectif de 946 000 a la fin de la quatrieme annee). En plus, des bailleurs de
fonds et d'autres projets de l'IDA ont fait appel a 1'AGETIPE pour arriver a un total de 168
conventions de maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee, 492 marches signes pour sous-projets dont 413 sont
deja completds. Plus que 2 millions de jourmdes de travail ont atd creees. Pendant cette periode
l'Agence a pu maintenir un ratio de frais de gestion de 2.5%. Si on inclut des cofits pour les audits
externes et pour les consultants il s'agit d'un ratio de 5%. Plus que 85% des sous-projets etaient
completes dans des dleais et des budgets prevus. 100% des paiements au profit des bureaux
d'etudes et des entreprises etaient effectues dans un delai de 30 jours. En reconnaissant cette
performance excellente, AGETIPE a pu beneficier d'un credit supplementaire de 10 millions $ qui
a ete approuve en ocitobre 1994.
Mise en oeuvre du projet
11.    Niveau d'acliviti et impact sur la creation d'emplois. Fin decembre 1996, 200 sous-
projets sont realises sur le Credit IDA, generant 2 400 000 emplois/jours directs, avec une masse
salariale versee de 1,9 milliards de FCFA. 422 conventions de maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee et 1 120
21



marches pour l'execution des sous-projets etaient signes. Cela inclut les cofmancements de la KfW
et de l'ACDI ainsi que la contrepartie malienne. Plus de 5 millions journees de travail ont ete
creees. Environ 20% (FCFA 2 744 millions) du coats des sous-projets etaient affectes pour les
salaires des ouvriers.
12.    Actuellement AGETIPE realise 100% des sous-projets sans depassement du budget et
execute 90% des sous-projets dans les delais impartis. Les delais de paiements sont d'environ 17
jours. Cette periode est bien dans la limite de 30 jours etablie dans le rapport d'evaluation mais
pourrait etre raccourcie davantage. Le delai s'explique par le nombre eleve de paiements qui sont
autorises par l'agence ainsi que des proc6dures de verifications plus strictes qui ont 6te introduites
recemment. L'agence recoit au moins 200 demandes de paiements par mois.
Indicateurs de performance
Indicateurs du rapport d'evaluation  Estimation initiale  Realise a la revue mi-   Kealise decembre
pour les 4 ans      parcours 1994            1996
Nombre de conventions de maitrise   153                160                   291
d'ouvrage delegu6e
Marches conclus pour 1'execution de  266               285
sous-proj ets
Marches acheves en totalite         117                224
Marches executes dans les delais impartis  75 A 100    87                    90
(%)                                 (4i6me ann6e)
Marches executes sans depassement de    75 a 100       100                   100
budget (%)                          (4ieme armne)
Factures payees dans les 30 jours (%)  75 a 100        100                   100
(4iAme annme)
Journdes de travail creees          946 000            1 366 000             2 378 000
Journees de travail creees par million de   190        286                   240
FCFA
Ces indicateurs sont fondes sur les hypotheses suivantes: (i) la valeur moyenne des marches est de FCFA 38 million,
c'est-a-dire du meme ordre que celle des sous-projets pilotes, (ii) environ US$ 21,6 des fonds totaux du programme
(IDA+Mali+Allemagne) seront utilises pour la composante travaux publics et (iii) au moins 20% des fonds serviront
a payer des salaires journaliers d'environ FCFA 1.071, securit6 sociale comprise (avant d6valuation).
13.    Travauxfinances par I 'IDA. Trois banques de sous-projets etaient execut6es. La premiere
banque etait achevee en juin 1994, la seconde (48 sous-projets et 122 marches) en septembre 1995.
Le taux de main d'oeuvre etait de 20%. La troisieme banque de projets qui contient 98 sous-projets
et 239 marches etait achevee a 95% avec un taux de main d'oeuvre de 19%. Prenant l'ensemble de
trois banques de projets, 200 sous-projets ont dtd finances par le Credit IDA a un cout global de
FCFA 9 405 millions, creant 2,4 millions de joumees de travail et une masse salariale de 1 417
millions de FCFA.
14.    L 'extension des activites d I 'exterieur de Bamako. A partir de la troisieme annee,
I'Agence ex6cutait des marches a l'ext6rieur de Bamako; l'ouverture de l'antenne de Mopti en
mars 1995 repondait a une demande tres forte d'intervention dans le Nord du pays.
15.    Gestion: A present AGETIPE emploie 30 personnes a titre permanent, y inclus 5
personnes a l'antenne de Mopti. Quinze personnes sont des professionnels, incluant 9 ingenieurs.
Les frais de gestion ont diminue pendant les annees, allant de 6,67% en 1993 a 2,69% en 1994 a
2,2% en 1995. Pendant la periode octobre 1995 i septembre 1996 les frais de gestion sont
22



augmentes a 2,59% Ah cause de l'ouverture de l'antenne de Mopti. Les frais de gestion moyens
pendant l'execution du projet s'etablit a 2,68%.
16.   Impact sur i,e developpement des capacites du secteurprive. Nombre de bureaux d'etudes
et d'entreprises qualifi6es en 1992: une dizaine dans le secteur formel, et maintenant 1430; nombre
d'entre eux recevant des marches d'AGETIPE: environ 500.
17.    Formation des bureaux d 'etudes et entreprises. Cette composante etait assez bien
executee. 3 714 participants (5733 envisages) ont assiste aux differents modules (gestion,
organisation des travaux et preparation des projets). Les entreprises a Bamako ont pu beneficier de
la formation pendant 2 ans (1706 participants), et 1 an pour les autres regions (2008 participants).
Les cofits totaux etaient FCFA 429.2 million. Incluant des documents et manuels il s'agit d'environ
450 millions FCFA. Le couit moyen par participant etait de FCFA 115 500, les frais A Bamako
etaient deux fois plus eleves qu'en region.
18.    Reforme de (a passation des marches. La composante a progresse d'une maniere tres
satisfaisante et a r6alis6 ses objectifs. Dans le domaine de la formation, la totalite du personnel
cadre de la DGMP et environ 30% des cadres d'autres ministeres vises se sont familiarises avec le
nouveau Code des M[arches Publics et les directives et procedures presidant en la matiere. La
DGMP a ete dotee en materiel comprenant l'informatique, les vehicules et la reproduction et
transmission de documents. La DGMP a etabli le Cahier des Clauses Administratives G6nerales
(CCAG) applicables aux marches de travaux. La DGMP a fait paraitre la Circulaire No 005/mb-
CAB du 8 mai 1992 fixant les delais pr6cis pour l'instruction des dossiers dans la "chaine" du
processus de passation des marches. La performance dans ce domaine repose sur differents
secteurs et reste encore tres critique A ce jour. Un projet d'Arr&e a ete elabor6 pour fixer les
modalites d'application du Decret No 95-401/P-RM du 10 novembre 1995 portant Code des
Marches publics. Ce projet meriterait une relecture notamment en ce qui conceme le circuit des
visas avant signatures des marches, circuit tres long et impliquant trop d'intervenants. I1 est
frequent de voir des imarch6s approuves seulement apres plus d'une annee de parcours divers apres
leur attribution. La creation d'un guichet unique et la limitation des signatures A deux, en plus de
celle du foumisseur, serait a examiner.
19.    La performance d'AGETIPE etait et reste exceptionnelle. Le projet a demarre sans
difficultes et le cr6dil: a e presque decaiss6 au moment de la revue mi-parcours. En plus le credit
supplementaire a et decaisse d'une facon rapide et efficace. Un des facteurs cles qui explique la
bonne performance cie l'Agence etait le support continu du gouvemement. Pendant toute la dur6e
du projet le gouvernement a toujours respecte ses obligations entierement. 11 n'y avait aucun
probleme avec les fonds de contrepartie. Le gouvemement a toujours accepte l'autonomie
d'AGETIPE dans la gestion des operations quotidiennes. Les relations avec le gouvernement
etaient tres bonnes. I)e plus en plus d'autres ministeres ont apprecie l'efficacite et la performance
de l'Agence et lui ont confie une partie croissante des sous-projets A faire executer. L'avenir
d'AGETIPE deprendra de l'efficacit6, de la qualit6, et de la comp6titivit6 des services qu'elle off-re.
Perennite
20.   Il y a deux niveaux pour mesurer la perennite du projet: (i) la capacit6 de l'Agence a
survivre au-dela du credit IDA en contractant avec le gouvemement, les municipalites et d'autres
bailleurs de fonds; et, (ii) la perennite des sous-projets. La perennite de l'Agence est demontree par
les projets de plus en. plus nombreux qui lui sont confies et les performances atteintes. Celle des
23



sous-projets releve de la perennite des investissements dans le secteur concerne et non du projet lui-
meme. Pour les travaux en milieu urbain, la perennite est fonction des ressources financieres
municipales dont l'amelioration n'etait pas dans les objectifs du projet; la faiblesse de ces
ressources a ete la cause principale d'une insuffisance d'entretien par les beneficiaires des ouvrages
realises.
Risques
21.    Un premier risque menace AGETIPE, c'est celui des lenteurs de realimentation de ses
comptes par certains bailleurs de fonds et par le Gouvernement, lenteurs qui risquent de
compromettre 1'efficacite de I'Agence dans le paiement rapide des entreprises et le danger de
fragiliser leur developpement en I'absence d'un secteur bancaire efficace. Ce risque serait a
attenuer par la fermete de l'Agence A ne demarrer un marche que lorsque les fonds correspondants
sont vir6s a l'Agence et par l'introduction de clauses de versement d'interets A l'Agence en cas de
retard de paiement. Un second risque r6side dans la tentation d'abandonner les techniques A haute
intensit6 de main d'oeuvre notamment dans les march6s importants. L'Agence devrait rester fidele
a sa vocation preniiere de creation d'emploi et faire tout son possible pour rechercher les
techniques d'execution les plus appropri6es pour atteindre touj ours ses objectifs. Le troisieme
risque est la prdcipitation avec laquelle l'Agence est sollicit6e pour r6aliser trWs vite certains
projets, avec les dangers qui y sont lies d'insuffisance de delai pour avoir des etudes et des travaux
de qualite. L'Agence devrait continuer a intervenir de maniere tres professionnelle et resister aux
pressions de cette nature.
Conclusion
22.    Le projet TIPE, projet d'abord de creation d'emploi, a non seulement atteint les objectifs
qui lui 6taient assignes, mais a introduit les modes nouveaux de maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee qui
sont en train de faire ecole grace a l'efficacite de leurs conception et procedures. Le Gouvemement
et les municipalites de 10 villes ont retenu AGETIPE comme Agence d'ex6cution de deux
composantes (pres de 100 millions de dollars) du Projet Developpement Urbain et Decentralisation.
Les municipalites ont signe non seulement les conventions de maitrise d'ouvrage ddleguee avec
AGETIPE mais surtout des contrats de ville, contractualisant les ameliorations a apporter dans la
gestion des villes, la mobilisation des ressources financieres, et 1'execution de 1'entretien des
infrastructures urbaines. La perennite de l'investissement est recherchee non pas a travers l'Agence
qui agit comme simple agence d'ex6cution, mais A travers de m6canismes specifiques du projet
hors Agence. L'antenne AGETIPE de Mopti verra son autonomie augmentee en vue de sa
transformation A terme en nouvelle Agence. Mieux encore, une AGETIPE rurale (AGETIER)
verra certainement le jour avant fin 1997 pour de nouveaux types d'interventions, la r6alisation
d'infrastructures rurales, soulageant l'Agence actuelle des interventions qu'elle effectue en dehors
des villes.
Bamako le 8 mars 1997
Le Charge de Projet
Abdelghani Inal
AFTT2
Region Afrique
24



ANNEX B
MALI PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Summary of Borrower Contribution
Achievement of Objectives
1.    The results of the project are generally satisfactory. Project objectives have been reached
and sometimes surpassed, with the exception of maintenance of sub-projects. The performance of
the World Bank and the Government have been highly satisfactory throughout the life of the
project.
2.     Since AGETIPE demonstrated good performance, donors such as KfW and CIDA, and
various ministries have hired AGETIPE to implement additional projects. This has enabled the
Agency to achieve the following results:
- 573 sub-projects executed
- 513 contracts signed
- 590 consullting contracts
- 521 contracts for works
- 7.5 million person-days of employment created
- 8.7 billion CFAF paid in wages
- 90% of contracts executed on time
- 97% of contracts executed within budget
- 95% of bills paid within 30 days
- a fee ratio of 3.33% on March 31, 1997
Project Financing and Management
3.    The IDA credits were executed in conformity with the Credit Agreement and almost fully
disbursed. Co-financing provided by the German Cooperation (KfW) has been fully executed.
Counterpart funding provided by the Government of Mali was CFAF 22.9 billion, of which CFAF
18.5 billion has been disbursed, surpassing the CFAF 618.7 million planned in the Credit
Agreement. In summary, the Agency has been rigorous in budgetary management, as has been
stated in the audit reports.
Capacity Building and Technical Assistance
4.    AGETIPE has had a significant impact on capacity building of local enterprises and
consulting firms. From around 10 consulting firms in the formal sector in 1992, there are now
1,909 enterprises registered, of which 1,288 are qualified. A total of 1,565 contracts have been
signed with 551 contractors. The training provided to contractors and firms improved their
capacity.
25



Awareness Raising and Grassroots Participation
5.    A grassroots participation and awareness raising program was oriented towards
beneficiaries (both communities and the public administration). Five neighborhoods per commune
for a total of six communes received training by NGOs. Through the grassroots participation
program implemented by the Agency through NGOs, a Health and Hygiene Committee was set up
in each targeted neighborhood to train and animate the population in sub-project maintenance,
especially for drainage, buildings and waste collection.
26



Rapport d'achevement de I'Emprunteur
RESUME
Titre                                      Projet d'Execution de Travaux d'Int6ret Public
pour l'Emploi.
Emnrunteur                          :      Rpublique du Mali
Organisme de Tutelle                       Ministere de l'Emploi, de la Fonction Publique
et du Travail
Montant du Credit IDA                      28,8 millions de dollars US
Conditions                                 Conditions habituelles de l'IDA, duree 40 ans
Cofinancement                              Allemagne (6 millions de dollars US); Etat
malien (22,9 milliards francs CFA)
Date de signature                          17 juillet 1992
Date de mise en vigueur                    22 octobre 1992
Date de cl5ture                            31 mars 1997
Obiectifs du projet
1.     Les objectifs du projet fixes dans l'accord de credit N237 1-MLI en date du 17 Juillet
1992 sont les suivants: a) creer des emplois temporaires pendant lexecution du projet grace a des
travaux utilisant les techniques A forte intensite de main-d'oeuvre et contribuer a terme A la creation
d'emplois, en d6montrant que ces techniques sont faisables ; b) ameliorer le cadre de vie A Bamako
et ses environs grace A un programme de petits travaux d'int&& public necessaires et d'urgence ; c)
accroiltre la capacit6 clu secteur public A orienter et A gerer efficacement la demande de travaux,
fournitures et services; demontrer la faisabilite de procedures moins lourdes et plus transparentes
pour la passation des marches et I'administration des contrats ; d) renforcer la capacite du secteur
prive a elaborer, mett:re en place et superviser un large 6ventail de travaux d'interet public ; e)
assurer la mise en oeuvre des reforrnes des proc6dures de passation des marches de l'emprunteur.
Description du projet
2.     Le projet s'arnicule autour de cinq (05) pnrncipales composantes:
27



a) un programme de travaux publics visant a rehabiliter et a entretenir les infrastructures urbaines,
et devant etre executes par des entreprises locales utilisant des techniques A haute intensit6 de main
d'oeuvre;
b) un programme d'assistance technique et de gestion offert aux PME et bureaux d'etudes du BTP
c) un programme de formation permettant aux collectivites locales de mieux identifier les sous-
projets, et aux bureaux d'etudes de mener des etudes de faisabilite de meilleure qualite et/ou
propositions techniques relatives a ces projets;
d) un programme de diffusion de l'information et de sensibilisation sur le projet;
e) un programme visant a accro^tre la participation communautaire a l'identification et a l'entretien
des sous-projets;
f) une composante execution de la reforme de la passation des marches pour former le personnel
de la Direction Generale des March6s Publics (DGMP) et des principaux d6pertements minist6riels
il est entendu que le renforcement des capacites de la DGMP devrait A terme permettre la mise en
oeuvre des reformes et la disponibilite de services de consultants pour etablir des documents types
pour les offres et les marches.
R6sultats de l'valuation des obiectifs
3.     Les Resultats du projet sont globalement satisfaisants: a) les objectifs assignes au projet
ont e atteints et meme souvent depasses, excepte la composante entretien des sous-projets ; b) la
Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement du Mali ont ete tres performants dans toutes les etapes de la
vie du projet;
4.     La bonne performance de I'AGETIPE a fait que certains partenaires au developpement
(Cooperation allemande, ACDI) et departements ministeriels lui ont confie la maitrise d'ouvrage
deleguee. Ceci a permis d'atteindre les resultats suivants:
573 projets realises (prevision: 133 au demarrage pour les 5 exercices);
513 contrats beneficiaires (previson: 133);
590 contrats mailtre d'oeuvre (pr6vision : 266);
521 contrats d'entreprises (prevision: 350);
7,5 millions d'emplois/jour crees (pr6vision: 946.000);
8,7 milliards de FCFA de salaires vers6s (pr6vision: 842 millions CFA), soit
un ratio de main-d'oeuvre de 18% sur une prevision de 20%;
90% des marches ont e  acheves dans les delais (prevision: 95%);
97% de marches ont ete acheves sans depassement de budget (pr6vision : 95%);
95% des factures ont et payees dans un delai de 30 jours (pr6vision : 95%).
Le ratio de fonctionnement a et6 de 3,33% au 31 mars 1997 contre une prevision de 7% au
demarrage du projet.
28



5.     Evaluation financiere. Le credit IDA a ete execute conformement A l'accord de cr6dit avec
un taux de decaissement de 92%; (soit 12,5 milliards sur une prevision de 13,6 milliards CFA). Le
cofinancement allemand (soit 2,4 milliards sur une prevision de 3,3 milliards CFA) a ete
entierement execute dans la limite des credits autonriss dans la convention avec un taux moyen de
d6caissement de 73%,; l'Etat malien a largement d6passe sa contribution telle que libellee dans
l'accord de credit: cette contribution est pass6e de F CFA 618,7 millions en 1992 A F CFA 22,9
milliards au 31 mars 1997, sur lesquels F CFA 18,5 milliards ont ete dcaisses, soit 81%. En
resume, pendant la duree du projet, l'Agence a fait preuve d'une tres grande discipline budgetaire
que les differents audits ont d'ailleurs approuv6 en certifiant sinceres et reguliers les comptes de
l'Agence.
6.    Impact sur le d6veloppement des capacites des PME, du BTP, bureaux d'etudes et
entreprises. D'une diz2aine de bureaux d'etudes dans le secteur formel en 1992, l'on denombre dans
les statistiques de 1'AGETIPE 1909 entreprises enregistrdes au 31 Mars 1997, dont 1288
qualifiees, 1565 march6s ont cte conclus avec 551 entreprises.
7.     Assistance technique. Les formations dispensees ont contribue A ameliorer la capacite des
intervenants. (PME du BTP, bureaux d'tudes et beneficiaires de sous-projets). Ainsi 3714
participants sur 5733 envisages ont beneficie de formation en gestion, organisation des travaux et
preparation de projets. Le montant total du volet assistance technique s'est eleve a FCFA.450
millions incluant le cout des documents et manuels.
8.     Sensibilisation. Ce volet du projet a e  oriente vers les beneficiaires (populations,
municipalit6s et administrations publiques) et ex&eut par l'Association Malienne de Recherche
Action pour le Developpement (AMRAD). Durant la premiere phase, 5 quartiers par commune
ont et6 couverts tandis que dans la deuxieme phase (1995), 5 Communes du district de Bamako et
la Commune de Kati ont ete couvertes. Au regard de l'approche participative mise en oeuvre par
l'agence (via AMRAD), un Comite d'Hygiene et de Salubrite (CHS) a ete mis en place dans chaque
quartier cible, dote de la fonction d'animation des intervenants. Activit6s menees: nettoyage/curage
de caniveaux ; entretien des ouvrages publics ; enlevemcnt des ordures.
9.     R&formes des procedures de passation des marches publics. La composante a progresse de
facon tres satisfaisante et a atteint ses objectifs: mise A disposition de la DGMP d'un consultant
specialiste en BTP et d'un autre specialiste en passation de marches publics et directives et
procedures y afflrentes. La DGMP a 6t6 equipee en materiel informatique, vehicules et a ete dotde
d'une bonne documentation. Ainsi, de bonnes conditions de travail ont ete creees pour permettre A
la DGMP de fonctionner plus efficacement.
En resume, si les procedures "AGETIPE" ont permis A I'Etat malien de r6aliser des economies
substantielles (environ 5 milliards CFA au titre du Projet Urbain du Mali et du 5eme projet routier),
elles ont aussi et surtout eu un impact positif sur la misc en oeuvre de certains marches en termes
de reduction des delais.
Perennite
10.    La perennite du projet d'execution de travaux d'intrft public pour l'emploi d6pendra de:
- la capacite de l'Agence A survivre au-delA du credit IDA en contractant avec l'Etat malien, les
municipalites et les dii5fdrents partenaires au developpement ; et
29



- 1'entretien par les beneficiaires des sous-projets (ouvrages) executes.
La perennite de l'Agence est demontree dans la mesure oii l'Etat a largement depasse sa contribution
initiale telle que libellee dans l'accord de credit. Ainsi, l'Agence se voit de plus en plus confier de
nombreux projets. Quant A la perennite des ouvrages, il ressort des entretiens realises avec les
principaux acteurs que la maintenance des ouvrages ne se fait presque pas malgre l'engagement des
b6n6ficiaires, A travers les conventions, de prendre en charge la maintenance des infrastructures et
ouvrages.
Aimsi la durabilite des ouvrages n'est pas garantie suffisanmment du fait meme de l'insuffisance de
ressources financieres pour y faire face au niveau municipal.
Perspectives
11.    Le credit IDA a 6te cl6ture le 31 Mars 1997. Au meme moment, I'Agence a et6 sollicit6e
pour assurer la maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee du volet infrastructures urbaines de base et sites
historiques du Projet de Developpement Urbain et Decentralisation dont l'objectif principal est
d'amrliorer la mise a disposition d'infrastructures urbaines de maniere durable. Enfin, 1'esprit de la
d6legation de mailtrise d'ouvrage commence A etre appliqu6 par les d6partements ministeriels et les
municipalit6s.
Lecons majeures et Recommandations
12.    Les principales le,ons a tirer de l'execution du projet et recommandations sont les
suivantes:
Au plan institutionnel
a)     dans le cadre de la mai^trise d'ouvrage delegu&e et avant de proceder au demarrage de tout
chantier, l'Agence doit s'assurer au pr6alable que le financement est definitivement acquis pour
eviter des retards de paiement. Le ma^itre d'ouvrage doit, en ce moment, prendre les
dispositions utiles pour que les fonds soient disponibles dans les comptes de l'Agence;
b)     I'Agence devrait mener une reflexion pour permettre aux entreprises d'acceder plus facilement
aux cautions bancaires dont l'obtention entra^ie parfois des tensions de tresorerie et/ou des
retards;
c)     en raison des retards signales par certains entrepreneurs pour le recouvrement de leurs
decomptes, il serait souhaitable de prendre des mesures pour reduire les delais de paiement;
d)     la charge de travail du personnel doit 6tre allegee par de nouveaux recrutements;
e)     le suivi de la main d'oeuvre employ6e sur les chantiers devrait atre renforce;
f)     les procedures de passation des marches au niveau de l'AGETIPE pourraient servir de
r6f6rence A la DGMP dans l'exercice de ses activites;
g)     le temps entre le lancement de l'appel d'offres (ou de la consultation restreinte) et la date limite
de d6p6t des souminssions doit &re suffisant pour permettre aux entreprises d'6laborer
30



correctement leurs offres;
des rencontres periodiiques d'echanges d'informations entre l'Agence et les differents partenaires
seraient profitables pour toutes les parties: ces rencontres pourraient etre ltoccasion pour
certains acteurs d'avoir des reponses aux nombreuses questions qu'ils se posent.
Sur la pirennite
i)     au regard, d'ume part, du faible niveau d'implication des beneficiaires dans l'entretien des
ouvrages et infrastructures, et d'autre part de l'insuffisances des ressources disponible au
niveau des collectivites locales, la perennite des investissements realises necessiterait la
mise en place d'un fonds d'entretien;
j)     au regard de Ia faible capacite des beneficiaires a mieux maitriser les exigences techniques
d'entretien et les couits y afferents, I'AGETIPE devrait prendre des mesures appropriees
pour y faire face; par exemple, on pourrait envisager la mise a disposition de fiches
techniques d'entretien ainsi que des fiches de suivi-6valuation des charges reccurrentes;
k)     l'extension du. programme d'animation aux Regions devra etre diligentee. Une actualisation
du Plan d'Action pour les regions presentee par SERNES/AMRAD devrait permettre son
op6rationalite.
Sur I'avenir
1)     au niveau de l'antenne de Mopti, le paiement des d6comptes a fait l'objet d'un certain
nombre de requetes de la part de PME du BTP et Bureaux d'Etudes. Pour accel&rer le
paiement des decomptes, l'Agence devrait autoriser le paiement sur place au niveau de
toute antenne regionale; et
m)    la localisation au niveau des capitales regionales des actions de formation n'a pas facilite la
participation d'un plus grand nombre de PME du BTP et Bureau d'Etudes . Avec la
decentralisation en cours, les communes pourraient etre des lieux privilegies pour recevoir
ces actions de formation et d'information . Ceci permettra aux Bureaux d'Etudes, PME du
BTP et beneficiaires au niveau local, d'avoir plus d'emprise sur les r6alisations d6ja faites
et celles a venir.
31



ANNEX C
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Summary of Beneficiary Assessment
1.    INTRODUCTION
This study was carried out at the request of the Operations Evaluation Department of the
World Bank. The general aim was to use a participative approach in making a full assessment of
the impact of Agetipe-Mali, and thereby to establish a possible foundation for decisions on future
generations of public works in Africa.
The specific objective of the study was to examine stakeholders' perception of the impact
of subprojects on employment and incomes, the relations between stakeholders and the Agetip, the
impact of decentralization on relations among stakeholders, and the Agetip's prospects for the
future.
T'he study was preceded by a concept workshop held in Dakar. Attended by consultants
from Benin, Burkina Faso and Mali, and organized on a basis of individual discussion sessions and
focus groups, this meeting was an attempt to harmonize methods of evaluating the same project
from the point of view of all stakeholders.
2.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1    Obiectives
T'he objectives of the project as specified in Credit Agreement No. 237 1-MLI of July 17,
1992 and in the related staff appraisal report were: (a) to create temporary employment during
project implementation; (b) to improve living standards and increase productivity in Bamako and
its vicinity; (c) to increase the capacity of the public sector to orient and efficiently manage its
demand for works, goods, and services, by demonstrating the feasibility of less cumbersome and
more transparent procurement procedures and contract administration; (d) to improve public
procurement; and (e) to strengthen the capacity of the private sector to design, implement, and
supervise a wide range of public works, and improve the individual skills of workers employed by
firms benefiting from project funding, by increasing their long-term ability to respond to
employment opportunities.
2.2    Components
The project consisted of a principal component that accounted for the major share of
project cost, plus several subsidiary components: (a) a public works program; (b) a technical and
managerial assistance package; (c) a training program; (d) a program to increase grassroots
participation in subproject identification and maintenance; (e) consulting services; and (f) a
procurement reform implementation component.
32



2.3    Financing
Project cost was estimated at the appraisal stage at US$28.22 million. This was to be
covered by a World EBank credit (US$20 million, subject to the usual IDA conditions, for 40 years),
a subsidy from Germany (US$6 million), and a counterpart contribution from the Government of
Mali (US$2.22 million).
3.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    Components
The program of (small-scale, labor-intensive) public works was carried out appropriately:
467 subprojects (IDA., government counterpart, KfW, CIDA), as against the total of 315 originally
projected.
The training and technical/managerial assistance programs that targeted SMEs, SMIs,
firms active in the construction and public works field, government offices and agencies, consulting
firms, and municipalities focused mainly on the following topics: Agetip procedures, organization
and operation of businesses, labor and tax legislation, book-keeping, financial management,
management audit, cost accounting, supplies and inventory management, substantive content of
bidding documents, worksite organization and management, quality control, subproject feasibility
studies, road maintenance, concepts of urban development, and rudiments of information
technology.
Implementation of the program to increase grassroots participation in subproject
identification and maintenance led to the following results: (a) compliance with project start-up
and mid-term survey deadlines; (b) significant improvements in communication between
communities in the Bamako and Kati districts and their local authorities; and (c) commitment from
beneficiaries to involve themselves more closely in the maintenance of civil engineering works
forming part of subprojects presented by their municipalities.
The public sector procurement reform prograrn created very good working conditions that
enabled DGMP to begin operating on a sound and effective basis: training was provided for
DGMP's own personnel and the staff of other governmental technical departments and agencies;
equipment and materials were supplied; and model bidding and contractual documents were drawn
up.
3.2    Role of stakehiolders
Many players participated, in one way or another, in implementation of the project: (a) the
Government of Mali; ( b) the Agetip; (c) ministerial technical departments; (d) municipalities; (e)
business firms; (f) consulting firms; (g) workers and sand suppliers. All of them, in their particular
fields, contributed to the success of the project.
3.3    Achievement of A2etip obiectives
In general, the project objectives (creation of jobs and income-earning capacity,
improvement of living standards in Bamako and its vicinity, increased capacity in the public sector,
strengthening of the piivate sector, and reforms in procurement procedures) were achieved: 7.5
33



million man-days of work were created, compared to the 946,000 projected; rehabilitation or
construction of drainage infrastructure; technical assistance for DGMP (staff training and
consulting services); training for entrepreneurs and consulting-firm personnel.
4.     PROJECT RESULTS
The results and impact of the project were satisfactory as far as concerns job creation,
improvement of living standards in Bamako, and capacity building in both the public and private
sectors. Agetip/stakeholder relations were good on the whole. On the other hand, subproject
sustainability was not always a foregone conclusion, given not only the weak involvement of
communities in subproject identification and execution but also the scarcity of municipal financial
resources. However, all stakeholders believe that administrative decentralization will have a
positive effect as far as identification and execution of projects in the municipalities is concerned.
5.     RECOMMENDATIONS
The following recommendations are made on the basis of an analysis of documentary
materials concerning the project, chiefly progress reports and evaluation reports, and after
interviews with individuals and focus groups. They are directed to all project players, in their
specific fields of activity:
On iob and income creation
5.1    Promote formation of municipal economic interest groups focused on sanitation (mainly
women's groups).
5.2    Promote women's entrepreneurship in the construction and public works field.
5.3    Given the high volume of work to be performed, the Agetip should recruit new personnel.
5.4    Award more substantial work contracts to firms in order to ensure their growth.
5.5    Set up a mechanism to monitor indirect types of employment - sand suppliers (males and
females), foodsellers (females), sellers of building materials (males and females).
5.6    Press firms to register their personnel with INPS.
On relations between the Anetin and other stakeholders
5.7    Strengthen communications with all stakeholders so that they will gain a better
understanding of the Agetip's missions.
5.8    Continue with training programs (elected municipal officials, civil servants, consulting
firm personnel, workers, etc.).
5.9    Lay the foundations for possible collaboration with future Agetips (e.g. focused on rural
and road projects), in the interests of complementarity and to preclude conflicts over
jurisdiction.
5.10   Emphasize sensitization of the general public to the need to maintain infrastructure
facilities, entrusting the task to NGOs and specialized consulting firms.
5.11   Encourage the authorities to continue their policy of non-interference in the management of
the Agetip.
5.12   Ensure that the Agetip does not commit itself beyond its capacity and thereby undermine
the quality of its performance.
5.13   Involve the Agetip's partners, chiefly contracting and consulting firms, in decision-making:
award of contracts and redrafting of some basic documents (e.g. model contracts).
34



5.14   Increase frequency of selection of subprojects.
5.15   Involve communities in subproject preparation and maintenance, although this will require
extension of study periods. Ensure that grassroots opinion is listened to at all levels
(municipalities and Agetip): community participation in identifying subprojects ensures
that these subprojects reflect the concerns of the local community itself and not those of
some of its elected officials.
5.16   Make sure that subprojects are incorporated into a master plan, so that allowance can be
made for the related socio-economic activities. For instance, a subproject to lay gutters
cannot be executed successfully unless accompanied by adequate trash collection services
and a prograrn to stimulate community awareness of environmental concerns.
5.17   Brainstorm on ways to ensure early availability of mobilization advances.
5.18   In awarding contracts, place greater value on technical considerations than on the financial
aspect (lowest bid).
On sustainability
5.19   Strengthen monitoring activities and control procedures in order to ensure the quality of
works and infrastructure.
5.20   Seek substantial financial resources to cover the maintenance of works and structures
executed. In this regard, make sure that subprojects identified include some revenue-
generating commercial facilities (e.g. markets plus adjacent retail spaces and public
toilets).
5.21   Make it a general practice, as provided for in the Urban Development and Decentralization
Project, to budget maintenance funds right from the subproject identification stage. See to
it that communities and municipalities allow for the cost (i.e. the financial, technical, and
management implications) of maintaining works and infrastructure facilities.
5.22   Give women responsibilities for infrastructure maintenance (sanitation).
On decentralization
5.23   Prepare for new methods of collaboration with the 700 municipal districts that are to come
into being in the very near future: the Agetip will need to pay more attention to
explanations, sensitization, dialogue, information, training, and the like.
On the future of the Agetip
5.24   Arrange for the Agetip to continue setting up regional branches, making them technically
and financially autonomous, so that it builds up closer links with its regional partners.
5.25   Ensure that the Agetip retains its current NGO status.
5.26   Develop environmental sanitation and conservation awareness programs at different
institutional levels (through the competent Ministry). On the national plane, add courses
on sanitation and respect for both the physical environment (buildings, roads) and the
natural environment (nature, water) to the basic education curriculum.
5.27   Take steps to obtain an NGO framework agreement and a specific agreement with the
Government for the execution of public works.
35






Aftontic SPNISH           -        ALGERIA                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any oter information
Oczeor  HARA1.                                                                                                                                       shj li  an this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bonk Graup,
N                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ony jud9gment on the legal status of any territory, or ony endorsement
N.                                                                     N                                      j \ s  or acceptance of such boundaries.
MAURITANIA                                                                                          'N                                   0             150            300 KILOMETERS
M A L I 
fSENEGAL)                    .        NGE 7
THE                           NI~~~~~~~~~_GER                                                                      'N
GAt<_i^&  69B-oako/ BURKINA\--  tJe
A    GUINEA  .       (    FASO   -N'\                                                                                                              A     L    G      E    R    I   A
10'                                     I   t,                                                      1      "^
M  A  L I                                                     \ TOM B O                     U C T  U
-20'                   o   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                              !       \oer.-1it .
CERCLE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                   / (  *,  n-Zoon6tnne,  '20'
@   REGION CAPITALS                                        jI'                                                               ,- ,Aq-oIh.k
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     \\      0Amnne\e                                        R  E  G  I/O   N
FLOOD AREA                                             !                  R@
R REG   IO0N                                             o Kid.1l~
'-*'~-' RIVERS                                                 |                                                                                                 -i'-,-1
----- CERCLE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                   - - - - --
REGION BOUNDARIES                                       ._
-  - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 |
\   0To,,nnc  ~oormo.RhncL~,        t    -       /6   A   b                ,.,
G-d                                     R111~~~~~~E\ G   I'0    nN
GM  A  U  R I T A  N  I A                                   ?                                       \          'Aoro Menol,o
F SENEGAL s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6                                                                                               k   >'!-'r~r-
15'                                 - 7O1       oN    onl1                                   MO         ~        s     a,   41o6bb...-15
>  $/0snnd                  KOULIKOR O               k.l.f     RECi                                                                                      N   I G   E R
Dai LGUIRErGION                                                                            K- N       G
SENEGAL           DnlobnRE61U
Di0S.od,l   Boolff "'i  -o' RtI
R- _L NnoM.d  Klo-lody  -ni,a.O)~t
ji~o~O/0  T~d~n  %OB.di.k                   N,gnU RTKSI N -                                                FAS
to1, Bot-    kno                olo  '~'   90 t          I- cso I   J
S.I.d.-a"9-a_ K-          SIh--                                   inflOy"r
tofllOIOSO    oS   5        SIKASSO                                                                                                       N  I G NIGE I A
CPITA LAREA                 gon       0oo NsoS,oo
Cd AMAKCY      d
C)                                                                                                                                                'A~~ U      "ABd~Cnos    E-ENIN 
~~ ~01~g0~~ ~7K~                               G H A N A                                                               5









IMAGING
Report No.:          17044
Type:     iCR



