CREDIT NUMBER 2371 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Works and Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2371 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1992, between
REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from other donors loans
or grants in an amount of $6,000,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "SpecIal Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b, of this Agreement;
(b)   "Agetipe-Mali" and   "Executing Agency" mean Agence
d'Exfcution des Travaux d'Inttr&t Public gour 1'Emploi du Mali,
established pursuant to the statutes adopted by its General Assembly
held on March 7, 1992 and modified on May 2, 1992;
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 2, 1990 and


﻿- 2 -
December 13, 1990, and August 17, 1991 and October 4, 1991,
respectively, between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)   "Convention" means the Agreement, dated April 6, 1992,
signed between the Borrower and Agetipe-Mali, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and such term includes the Manuel de
Proc6dures and all annexes to the Convention;
(e)   "Sub-project" means any activities described as such in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01
(c) (i) B of this Agreement;
(f)   "CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(g)   "DGMP" means "Direction G4n6rale des March4s Publics".
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million and seven hundred fifty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account


﻿-3-
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing


﻿-4-
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent  (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end and without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, shall carry out
the Project through Agetipe-Mali, in accordance with the provisions
of the Convention with due diligence and efficiency and in conformi-


﻿- 5 -
ty with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public works practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention
or any provision thereof.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement the Borrower shall:
(i)   Exercise its rights under the Convention to cause
the Executing Agency to:
(A)   adopt not later than six months after the
Effective Date the final versions, satis-
factory to the Association, of the Action
Plan for technical and managerial assis-
tance referred to in Section 7.01 (c) of
this Agreement.
(B)   execute, not later than September 30, 1996,
a program of new subprojects representing
an aggregate cost of $2.22 million equiva-
lent, out of which: subprojects represent-
ing an aggregate amount of at least
$450,000 equivalent shall be completed
during the twelve months ending Septem-
ber 30,  1993;  subprojects  representing
$600,000 equivalent shall be completed
during the twelve months ending Septem-
ber 30, 19R4; and subprojects representing
$750,000 equivalent shall be completed
during the twelve months ending Septem-
ber 30, 1995; and
(C)   submit to the Association for approval, in
addition to the initial program of selected
subprojects   submitted  prior   to   the
Effective Date, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1993, September 30, 1994, and


﻿- 6 -
September 30, 1995, annual programs of
subprojects representing respectively an
aggregate amount of at least $6.3 million
equivalent, $7.4 million equivalent and
$7.8 million equivalent.
(ii) make available to the Agency out of its own
resources all the necessary funds needed for the
execution of the subprojects referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) (B) of this Section.
(d)   For the purposes of obtaining the Association's approval
to any of the annual programs referred to in sub-paragraph (c) (i)
(C) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
satisfactory evidence attesting that pursuant to paragraph (a) and
paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower has (i) paid its
contribution for the previous year and (ii) made budgetary provi-
sions for its contribution for the current year.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention to keep the position of Director General of Agetipe-Mali
filled, at all times, by a person having experience and qualifica-
tions acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation to or restriction upon
its other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and
this Agreement, the Borrower, Agetipe-Mali and the Association shall
not later than October 31, 1993 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree upon carry out a mid-term review
with regard to (i) the progress of the Project and sub-projects,
(ii) the management of the operations of Agetipe-Mali, the perfor-
mance by Agetipe-Mali of its obligations under the Convention
(including procurement procedures), (iii) the performance by the
Agetipe-Mali and implementing enterprises of their respective
obligations under sub-project agreements, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit. The recommendations agreed upon
between the Association and the Borrower during such review shall be
implemented with due diligence.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall (a) submit to the Association
quarterly reports on the number and amount of contracts monitored by
DGMP;
(b)   Not later than October 31, 1993, carry out with the
Association an assessment of the implementation of the Borrower's
procurement reforms.
(c)   After such assessment, take all necessary measures,
including revisions of the legal and regulatory framework of
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association, to implement
the recommendations thereof, for further implementation of Part D of
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Agetipe-Mali to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
Agetipe-Mali.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Agetipe-Mali to:
(i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and the records
and accounts for the Special Account for each six
months audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than three months after
the end of the period referred to sub-paragraph
(i) above, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial


﻿- 8 -
statements and the audit thereof as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause Agetipe-Mali to:
(i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for tle fiscal year in
which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account was made, all record= Innntracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and otber documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
ed in the semi-annual audit referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such period together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention to cause Agetipe-Mali:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association, for
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and


﻿- 9 -
public works practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management acceptable to the Association assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and public works practices.
Section 5.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06
and 9.07 of the General conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and
maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out by Agetipe-Mali.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Agetipe-Mali will be able to perform its obligations
under the Convention;
(b)   the Statutes of Agetipe-Mali shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of Agetipe-Mali to perform any of its
obligations under the Convention;
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Executing Agency, or for the suspension of its operations;
(d)   the Borrower or the Executing Agency shall have failed
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Convention;
(e)   the Convention shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the Project or the performance by the Executing Agency of
its obligations under the Convention;


﻿- 10 -
(f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrow-
er for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or (B) any such loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(a)   An operational accounting system consistent with the
Manuel de Procedures and satisfactory to the Association has been
set up in Agetipe-Mali;
(b)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement, have been appointed;
(c)   the Association has approved an initial action plan for
the carrying out of Part B of the Project and final action plans for
the implementation of the program under Part C.2 of the Project; and
(d)   the Association has approved an initial program of
selected sub-projects representing an aggregate estimated cost of
the equivalent of $4,600,000 or more; and
(e)   An "arr&t& on the exemptions granted under the Conven-
tion, satisfactory to the Association, has been signed by the
relevant minister of the Borrower.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Convention has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Agetipe-Mali, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Agetipe-Mali in accordance
with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finances is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Bamako, Mali
Telex:
972559
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Public works              8,800,000       100%
under Part A
of the Project
(2) Consultants'              1,800,000       100%
services and
training under
Parts B and C
of the Project
(3) Equipment for               275,000       100%
Agetipe-Mali
(4) Operating                 1,300,000       100%
costs of
Agetipe-Mali
(5) Under Part D of                           100%
the Project:
(a) Equipment,             500,000
office supplies
and vehicles
(b) Consultants'           265,500
services and
training


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Refunding of               1,000,000       Amounts due pur-
Project Pre-                              suant to Section
paration                                   2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                   Agreement
(7) Unallocated                 760,000
TOTAL                14,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule "operating costs" means the
costs incurred by Agetipe-Mali under the Project on account of local
staff salaries and allowances, operation and maintenance of vehicles
and equipment, office rent, supplies and services.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to create temporary
employment during project implementation by means of labor-intensive
technologies, and contribute to employment creation in the long run
by showing that such technologies are indeed feasible; (b) to
improve the viability of Bamako and its vicinity by means of a
program of urgently needed, small-scale public works; (c) to
increase the capacity of the public sector to orient and manage
efficiently its demand for works, goods and services; (d) to
demonstrate the feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparent
procurement procedures and contract administration; (e) to strength-
en the capacity of the private sector to design, implement and
supervise a wide range of public works; and (f) to carry out reforms
of Borrower's procurement procedures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Preparation and implementation of a program of essential,
small-scale public works aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining
urban infrastructure, using labor intensive technologies.
Part B:
Services related to work organization, management and labor
force training, to local contractors for the execution of works
under Part A above.
Part C:
1.    Training to improve the capacity of local governments to
identify subprojects and the capacity of consulting firms to prepare
feasibility studies and technical proposals;
2.    Program of information dissemination and consciousness raising
measures aimed at increasing beneficiaries' participation in
subproject identification, execution and maintenance; and
3.    Monitoring of the implementation of the Project.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:
Assistance to DGMP for the implementation of the Borrower's
on-going procurement reforms, including: training of staff of DGMP
and technical ministries, strengthening of DGMP's capacity to
implement the reforms and drafting of standard bidding and contracts
conditions.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996.


﻿- 18 -
SCUEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$539,000 or less per contract may be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association, amongst bidders who have been prequalified on the
basis of criteria acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $180,000 or more, or for which less than 5
bids have been received the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.


﻿- 19 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project
the Borrower shall cause Agetipe-Mali to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDUL 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 to 4
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to CFAF 400,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
quests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 21 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount     of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been


﻿- 22 -
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
0R SECRETARY


