RESTRICTED
CIRCULATING COPY             Report No. P-710
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
IN GENERAL FILES          FIE      CsP
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its-accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE
THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
June 3, 1969



INTTENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DE7ELOPMi4,T
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOJ1NENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN TO PARAGUAY
FOR THE THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit and loan, each in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to US$4.3 million to the Republic of Paraguay, to assist in
the financing of a third livestock project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed credit/loan would be the third for livestock
development in Paraguay. The first credit, in the amount of US$3.6 million,
was made in December 1963. Only one year elapsed before it became evident
that the credit would be fully committed by early 1966. A second credit
in the amount of US$7.5 million was made in April 1966. As of this date,
nearly two years before the Closing Date, the second credit is practically
committed, except for those funds allocated to finance the foreign exchange
cost of technical services and of a foot-and-mouth vaccine producing plant.
3.1       In view of the rapid utilization of the second credit and of
the substantial number of ranchers who had not benefited from the first
and second livestock projects, the Government approached the Bank Group
in January 1968 requesting financing for a third livestock project.
4.        The third livestock project was appraised in September 1968, and
after some delay occasioned by discussions with the Paraguayan Government
regarding its general economic and financial policies, negotiations took
place in Washington from May 2 to May 6, 1969. The Government of Paraguay
was represented at these negotiations by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta and
Dr. Jose D. Samaniego, President and Secretary General respectively, of
the Central Bank of Paraguay.
5.        The proposed credit and loan would increase the Bank's total
lending to Paraguay to US$15.9 million and the Association's total lending
tO US21.4 million.  The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Paraguay as of April 30, 1969:



- 2-
J,'.n or
Cr*dit   Year        Borrower                 Purpose           Amount (US$ t'illici'
-,uriber                                                        Bank IDA Undis.Wursed
55     1951  Republic of Paraguay   Agriculture and Transport  4a-5  - 
12     1961  Republic of Paraguay   Roads                           6.0 o
47     1963 Republic of Paraguay    Cattle                      -   3.-6 
396     1964 Republic of Paraguay    Roads                      2.2   -     1.2
l37     1965  Administraci6n Nacion-
al de Navegaci6n y
Puertos               Port                       2.-8  -     1.7
86     1966  Republic of Paraguay   Livestock                   -   7 i-5  0 8
443    11966  Republic of Paraguay   Roads                      2.1   -     0 9
Total (less cancellations)                       11.6 17.1
of which has been repaid to Bank and others       4e5
Total now outstanding                             7.1
Amount sold                               0.3
of which has been repaid                  0.1     0.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    6.9 17.1
Total undisbursed                                 3.8  0.8    4-.
6.        Disbursements on the existing loans and credits on the whole are
proceeding on schedule.  Although some of the projects had a slow start,
particularly the second road project and the port expansion project, at
present none of them poses unusual problems in execution.
7.        A US$6 million loan for a second highway maintenance project is
expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors before the end of 1969,
The Government is also discussing further projects in agriculture, educaticn,
transport and tourism.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPIENT CREDIT AND LOAN
8.        Borrower:                 Republic of Paraguay
Purpose:                  To assist in financing a credit program
to increase beef cattle production thri-cugh
loans for farm development, for the imr-
portation of machinery and equipment arnd
procurement of technical services.
Amount:                   A development credit in various curren-
cies equivalent to US$4.3 million, and
a loan in various currencies equilralen.b
to US$4.3 million.



3-
Amortization:           A-Credit:  In 50 years, including a
10-year period of grace, through semi-
annual installments of 1/2 of 1 percenYt
from October 1, 1979 through April 1,
1989 and of 1-1/2 percent from October
1989 tihrough April 1, 2019.
B-Loan: In 30 years, including a lO-yeav
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning October 1, 1979
and ending October 1, 1999.
Interest Rate (Loan):   6-1/2 percent per annum.
Service Charge
(Development Credit):   3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge
(Loan):                 3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.         An appraisal report entitled "Third Livestock Project" (PA-3) is
attached.
10.        The proposed project is a continuation of the existing program
under IDA credits 47-PA and 86-PA. Basic investments for ranch development
plans (fencing, water supply, stock handling facilities, pasture improvemeni
and spray baths and dips), and purchases of breeding stock would represent
about 90 percent of the cost of the new project. Technical services, loans
to contractors, and contingencies account for the remaining 10 percent.
Some 450 ranchers would participate in the project, including at least 90
who have previously taken part in the first and second livestock projects.
11.        The organization employed under two previous projects--consisting
of the Central Bank and the National Development Bank (NDB) for administra-
tion, supervision and appraisal of ranch development plans, and a Coordina-
ting Committee composud of one senior representative of each bank and a
livestock expert to approve ranch development loans--would be strengthened
to improve the technical services under the project and to develop a perma-
nent organization capable of carrying out the livestock development prograna
beyond the period of IDA/Bank assistance. A Livestock Fund would be
created to hold and manage all funds made available for and accruing from
the three livestock projects.  The Fund would be managed by the Coordinati.1g
Committee, with a representative of the Central Bank as Chairman of the
Committee. A separate livestock division, under the direction of the live-
stock expert, would be established in NDB's Development Department to
appraise and supervise ranch development plans. The new division would
enable the livestock expert to maintain closer contact with the field tech-
nicians, and thus help improve overall technical services. NDB's
Development Department would continue to provide the banking servicess i.e
rayments and collections.



- 4 -
12.       The total expenditures to be undertaken under the third project
are estimated at US$15.5 million equivalent, and the financing from IDA and
the Bank would cover the direct and indirect foreign exchange component,
including interest on the Bank loan during the period of development. The
expenditures on ranch development plans would be covered as follows: 55
percent out of the credit and loan; 15 percent on average by the participa-
ting ranchers, as against 20 and 25 percent under the first and second
projects respectively; and 30 percent by the Government, as compared with
15 percent under the second project and 20 percent under the first. The
reduction in the ranchers' contribution has been accepted in recognition
of the fact that the ranchers now confront higher working capital require-
ments, including the need for retaining heifers to accelerate herd build-
up. It also takes into account recent and prospective developments in
producer prices, which are less favorable than at the time of appraisal of
the second project. In the case of contractors' loans, IDA and the Bank
would finance the c.i.f. cost of imported machinery and equipment.
13.       Loans to ranchers would be used to pay for goods (mainly imported
goods) procured through normal commercial channels. Some twelve dealers
provide the ranchers with a wide choice of goods and equipment at competi-
tive prices. Breeding stock would be bought both from local sources and
from the Argentine and Brazil.
14.       The Fund would lend to participating ranchers at a rate of interest-
of 9 percent on a 12-year term, including 4 years' grace - and to contractors
at 9 percent on a 3-5 year term. The term of the IDA credit would be 50
years and that of the Bank loan 30 years, so that there would be a substan-
tial flow of funds back to the Livestock Fund which would not be required to
service the credit and loan. These sums, together with similar funds
accruing from loans made under the two previous livestock projects, would
remain available to the Livestock Fund for a period of 30 years for the
conduct of further lending operations in the livestock field.
15.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 29
percent. The principal direct benefit resulting from the project would be
increased beef production. The annual increase of production frcm the
completed project would amount to about 44,000 metric tons of beef.   The
gross value of this production would total some US$12 million per year at
prices paid to the producer. As most of the additional production would be
exported the project's contribution to the foreign exchange earnings of
Paraguay would be substantial.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMNTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Republic of Paraguay
and IDA, the draft Loan Agreement between Republic of Paraguay and the Bhaik,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of IDA and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement and



- 5 -
the two draft resolutions approving the proposed development credit and
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
17.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements conform sub-
stantially to the pattern of agreements for livestock development pro-
jects. Particular attention is called to the following features:
(i) The Loan will not be disbursed until the amount of the
Development Credit has been fully withdrawn (Section
2.04(b) of the Loan Agreement).
(ii) A Livestock Fund will be established and maintained
under the management of the Coordinating Committee pur-
suant to arrangements satisfactory to IDA and the Bank
in order to hold and manage all funds made available for
and accruing from all three livestock projects (Section
4.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section
5.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
(iii) All sums accumulating to the Livestock Fund will be used
exclusively for the Durpose of continuing the financing
of livestock development for a period of thirty years
except as IDA and the Bank may otherwise agree (Section
4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 5.04
of the Loan Agreement).
PART V - THE ECONG4Y
18.       A report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of ParaguaZC
(WH-190c) is attached. The report makes a generally favorable finding
about Paraguay's economic performance during recent years, and concludes
that the country's growth prospects are favorable as the economy is
gradually being modernized, supported by rapidly rising public investments.
However, if the balance of payments is to remain manageable, only part of
the required external borrowing--preferably with extended terms and grace
periods--should be obtained at conventional interest rates, while for -the
remainder concessional financing will be required.
19.       Despite drastic recent actions to raise fiscal revenues,
adequacy of public savings to complement available external resources for
the public investment program is not yet fully assured. While the insuf-
ficiency of public savings would not impair the execution of projects
already financed by IDA and the Bank, since the bulk of the local
currency required for these projects is already assured by earmarking
special revenues, additional internal resources will have to be mobilized
soon if the rest of the public investment program is not to slow down.
20.       The Paraguayan Government agrees with this view and committcd
itself last October to a series of additional tax and revenue measures in



- 6 -
a 'etter of intent to the In-ter-American Committee on the Alliance for
Progress (CIAP). The MiLnister of Finance has written recently to the
Bank reaffirming the Government's intention to raise fiscal revenues,
and itemizing the measures which have already been taken since October
1968. These measures include a single stage sales tax, the doubling
of stamp taxes, increase of road toll charges, revision of tax rates
on very large rural holdings, increase of consumption taxes on non-
alcoholic beverages and modification of taxes on corporate capital.
He also listed additional measures which are in various stages of pre-
paration, including substantial modifications in the personal and
corporate income tax; uniform revaluation of both urban and rural
property and concerted efforts to collect back property taxes; and
considerable improvement in tax administration and collection. Effec-
tive implementation of these measures should assure the necessary
domestic resources to carry out the public investment program.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit and loan
would comply with the respective Articles of Agreement of the Associat.orn
and the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
22.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1969



