Report No. PID7026
PID7026.TXT
Project Name                     Estonia-Transport Project (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Infrastructure (Transport Sub-Sector)
Project ID                       EEPE35775
Borrower                         Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Transport
9 Viru Street, EE-0100 Tallin
Tel: 372-6-397-632
Fax:    372-6-397-676
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           April 12, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 12, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 15, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.     Since regaining independence in 1991, Estonia has initiated a
far-reaching economic transformation from a centrally planned to
an independent market oriented economy. To overcome major
structural problems, major economic reforms were introduced.
After an initial period of high inflation and sharp contraction of
real GDP in 1991 and 1992, Estonia's reforms have made major
improvements in the economic environment, the economic decline has
been halted and GDP is on the rise. Estonia introduced its own
currency in 1992, and carried out a successful stabilization
effort that has reduced inflation, encouraged foreign and local
private investment, and increased output . In the road sector,
financing for maintenance has been increasing over the past
several years, and is now approaching optimal levels. The IBRD-
financed Highway Maintenance Project, approved in 1993 and
completed in 1997, was rated "highly satisfactory" in the
Implementation Completion Report. This project helped to make the
Estonia Road Administration (ERA) more efficient and technically
advanced. Operation of the Estonia Railways Corporation (ERC) has
been greatly improved, operates one day service from Tallinn to
St. Petersburg, and is now in the process of privatizing its
operations.
2.     The Government believes that Estonian growth and development
in the years ahead can be encouraged by making Estonia a major
trade center and transshipment point for goods passing through the
region, with beneficial side effects in terms of value-added



activities as goods transit the country. To accomplish this
requires an efficient and competitive transport system, transit
procedures, and trade supporting services. The Government would
like to create a supportive environment for the development of
such services through a combination of legal and regulatory
measures, infrastructure upgrading, equipment for electronic data
interchange, and institutional strengthening.
Objectives
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the
competitiveness of Estonia's trade supporting infrastructure and
services and increase value-added activities resulting from the
expected increased transit traffic; (ii) reduce road transport
costs between Estonia's two largest cities; and (iii) strengthen
Estonia's road administration.
Description
3.      The project comprises the following components:
(a) Implementation of selected elements of Estonia's Action
Plan for Trade and Transport Supporting Infrastructure
and Services, which includes (i) improvements in the
policy, legal and regulatory framework and the
administrative procedures for trade supporting
activities, as identified in the study carried out for
this purpose; (ii) improvements in trade supporting
infrastructure, including installation of the first
phase of an Electronic Data Interchange System (EDI
System) to facilitate banking transactions, freight
handling, customs clearances, and other steps in the
transport processing system, and other infrastructure
improvements identified in the study; (iii)
institutional strengthening of the government agencies
involved in trade supporting activities, including
appropriate training; and (iv) private sector
development designed to enable the Estonian private
sector to develop trade supporting infrastructure and
value-added opportunities offered by the project
activities.
(b) Improvements to the road network through upgrading
portions of the Tallinn-Tartu road.
(c) Continuation of the institutional strengthening of the
Estonia Road Administration (ERA) that was begun under
the Highway Maintenance Project, including improved
budgeting, continued progress on improving road safety,
and adoption of procedures that will permit contracting
out of routine maintenance.
Financing
4.      Total project cost is estimated at US$46 million.    The
proposed IBRD loan would provide US$25 million, or 54 percent of
the total project cost. EU-Phare and bi-lateral aid donors would
provide US$2.4 million in grant financing for technical services,
and the Government would provide US$18.6 million counterpart
-2 -



financing.
Implementation
5.      Project implementation would be coordinated in the Ministry
of Transport, where a small implementation unit would be
established. The trade facilitation component would be
implemented under the guidance of the Estonian Infrastructure and
Trasnit Trade Development Foundation, with representatives of the
interested ministries and agencies as well as private sector
representatives. The road upgrading components will be managed by
ERA with its regular staff, utilizing the experience with World
Bank procedures learned during implementation of the Highway
Maintenance Project. The expected implementation period is four
years.
Sustainability
6.      Once in place, the system established to facilitate trade and
transport should be sustained because it will become part of
Estonia's regular trade and transport operations. The road civil
works components and institution building component should be
sustainable because ERA is a competent organization that has
already demonstrated its effectiveness in maintaining the road
network during the Highway Maintenance Project.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.      The Bank has broad experience in improving transport
systems around the world. This includes the importance of
insuring that existing systems are well maintained before
investing in expanded systems, something that Estonia is now
well aware of and has largely incorporated in its road
operations. The experience with the Highway Maintenance
Project showed that Estonia is fully capable of implementing
World Bank projects and can cope with the procurement and other
requirements without difficulty. The use of EDI systems is a
relatively new technology for Estonia, and the Bank will be
drawing on its experience in other countries to assist Estonia
in its efforts to join the forefront of countries that utilize
it.
Poverty Category
8.      An important benefit of the project is to generate increased
revenue, investment and employment through increased transit
activities, and to improve the competitiveness of Estonia's
productive sector, including agriculture and forest products as
well as manufactured goods. While not targeted directly to the
poorer segment of society, it will provide an important means for
sustainable income generation.
Environmental Aspects
9.      There will be only a limited environmental impact related to
the Tallinn-Tartu road, since the upgrading to be included in the
project will be for portions of the road that will not require
- 3-



realignment, hence avoiding issues relating to land acquisition
and resettlement. An environmental review will examine the
environmental impact of operating asphalt plants for paving
operations, quarrying operations to secure aggregate, and worker
safety issues, and will propose appropriate mitigation measures.
Program Objective Categories
10.     The transport industry has been fully involved with the
development of the trade and transport facilitation strategy and
Action Plan, and will participate in the implementation phase as
well. The project will enhance private sector development by
improving Estonia's transport infrastructure and trade supporting
services. It will make Estonia competitive as a transit point for
the region, enhance its competitive position regionally as a
partner in international production networks, and internally by
establishing a better road connection between Estonia's two
largest cities. It will also have a positive effect on the low
income rural population by improving the access to the interior
for agricultural and forest products.
Contact Point:
For the Government:
Marek Kiisa, Director General of
Foreign Relations Department
Ministry of Transport and Communications
9 Viru Street
15081 Tallinn, Estonia
Telephone No.: 372-6-397-630
Fax No.:         372-6-397-606
For the World Bank:
Cesar Queiroz, (ECSIN)
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-8053
Fax No.:         (202) 522-1165
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
activities and/or components may not be included in the final
project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 16, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is
required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID



