Documet of
The World Bank
Report No: 19672 EE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR24.8 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
FOR A
TRANSPORT PROJECT
February 23, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = EURO (EUR)
EUR 1= US$ 1.01055
US$ 1 = EUR 0.98956
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA        -      Automated System for Customs Data
CAS            -      Country assistance strategy
EBRD           -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDI            -      Electronic data interchange
EDIT           -      Estonian Infrastructure and Transit Development Foundation
EMP            -      Environmental management plan
ENRA           -      Estonian National Road Administration
ESA            -      Equivalent standard axle
EU             -      European Union
FSU            -      Former Soviet Union
GDP            -      Gross domestic product
HDM            -      Highway Development & Management (software)
IAS            -      International accounting standards
IBRD           -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
[CB            -      International competitive bidding
ICR            -      Implementation completion report
IRI            -      International roughness index
ISA            -      International standards of auditing
LACI           -      Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOF            -      Ministry of Finance
MOTC           -      Ministry of Transport and Communications
NBF            -      Not Bank-financed
NCB            -      National competitive bidding
PIP            -      Project implementation plan
PIU            -      Project implementation unit
PMR            -      Project Management Report
PMS            -      Pavement Management System
SOE            -      Statement of expenditure
TINA           -      Transport Infrastructure Needs Assessment
TOR            -      Terms of reference
UNCTA          -      United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDB           -      United Nations Development Business
WCO            -      World Customs Organization
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Basil G. Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:    Cesar Queiroz, ECSIN



Estonia
TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
3. Benefits and target population                                                       9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Social                                                                              14
6. Environmental assessment                                                            14
7. Participatory approach                                                              14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      15
2. Critical risks                                                                      15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      16



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          16
2. Other                                                                             16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        18
Annex 2: Project Description                                                           21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       23
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Sumnnary                                                24
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     29
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   35
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 36
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                37
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          39
Annex 11: Procurement Capacity Assessment                                              41
Annex 12: Procurement Action Plan                                                      48
MAP(S)
IBRD 30317



ESTONIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: February 23, 2000                           Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Country Manager/Director: Basil G. Kavalsky       Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P035775                               Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         El Credit       O Grant         Dl Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 25.0
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Pinancirng'P-an:   Source                                   Local        ;ForeTa              l
Government                                                    13.97           8.68         22.65
IBRD                                                           0.00          25.00          25.00
IDA
EUROPEAN UNION                                                 0.50           1.15           1.65
GOVERNMENT OF FINLAND                                          0.00           0.20          0.20
Total:                                                        14.47          35.03         49.50
Borrower: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT, ESTONIAN NATIONAL ROAD ADMIN. (ENRA)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2q000       2001    Z2002           2003        2,004    ~    0
Annualf    0.2   f       2.0         6.0  I      66.0         .0         4.8
Cumulative     0.2          2.2          8.2       14.2        20.2         25.0
Project implementation period: 5
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
X9S PtD Fo,. 0Cdt 9.1999
- 1-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the Project are to:
(i) reduce road transport costs between Estonia's two largest cities and to the Latvian and Russian borders;
(ii) improve Estonia's road safety performance;
(iii) strengthen Estonia's road administration; and
(iv) improve the competitiveness of Estonia's trade supporting infrastructure and services.
Achievements will be measured by (i) reductions in road transport costs; (ii) reduced road accidents and
fatalities; (iii) imnplementation of contracts for routine maintenance; and (iv) the increase in transit traffic
and the implementation of specific administrative actions related to trade facilitation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
For the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road improvements: (i) number of km of road improved; and (ii) average
roughness of entire road.
For road safety: traffic fatalities per 10,000 vehicles.
For institutional component: (i) installation of improved budgeting system; and (ii) percent of routine
mnaintenance carried out by contract increases from 0 to 30 percent by 2005.
For trade and transit facilitation: (i) Estonia's non-bulk transit traffic increases by 10 percent per year from
200 to 2005; and (ii) pilot electronic data interchange (EDI) system installed by 2003.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 13539-EE                  Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/21/94
Estonia, with an area of 45,227 square kilometers, is the northernmost of the three Baltic countries. It has
a population of 1.45 million people with per capita income of US$3,390 in 1998. Since regaining
independence in 1991, Estonia has initiated a far-reaching economic transformation from a centrally
planned to an independent market oriented economy. Its small economy, with few natural resources, had
been severely distorted by a half century of central planning and heavy dependence on the former Soviet
Union which accounted for about 90 percent of its trade. After an initial period of high inflation and a
sharp contraction of real gross domestic product (GDP) in 1991 and 1992, major econonic reforms were
introduced. Estonia established its own currency in 1992, and carried out a successful stabilization effort
that reduced inflation, encouraged foreign and local private investment, and produced annual growth rates
averaging 6 percent per year since 1993.
The key objective of the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS), prepared and reviewed in 1994, was to
alleviate the pockets of poverty that have developed during the transition process and to raise overall living
standards through (i) sustaining the resumption of economic growth to alleviate the sharp decline in average
-2-



incomes that occurred following Independence; and (ii) helping the government design and implement
policies, programs and projects that will improve the living standards of those who have been left behind in
the transition process. The economy's engine of growth for improving income levels was expected to be the
private sector, to be supported by adequate and efficient physical infrastructure and a supportive
administrative and legal framework. No formal CAS has been prepared since that time, but the emphasis
of the Bank's strategy has shifted to general support for national development. Nevertheless, the emphasis
on the private sector as the primary engine for growth has been an effective strategy, and is still relevant.
The project will contribute directly to this strategy through improvement in the adequacy and efficiency of
the country's transport infrastructure and services. Specifically, it will make the private sector more
competitive in world markets by lowering transport costs and reducing delivery times, thus encouraging
investment, job creation and rising incomes, and value-added activities resulting from increased transit
traffic.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Transport Infrastructure. Of the major transport infrastructure in Estonia, the ports and air transport
facilities are considered adequate and not in need of public investment at this time. The railway system,
which is being privatized, is receiving assistance from the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD). For the road infrastructure, the government has identified major roads supporting
its transit and development strategy as the Via Baltica in the western part of the country, the Tallinn-Narva
road connecting Tallinn to the St. Petersburg area in Russia, and the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road
connecting Estonia's two largest metropolitan areas and extending east to Moscow. Via Baltica is receiving
financial support from the European Union (EU) because of its link to European states, and funds from the
IBRD-supported Highway Maintenance Project were used to improve the Tallinn-Narva road to an
acceptable standard. The Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road, however, is reaching its maximnum capacity, and in
some sections is already creating bottlenecks during rush periods. Therefore, upgrading of this road is
considered by the government to be of high priority.
Road Management and Financing Issues. The Estonian National Road Administration (ENRA) is
responsible for the road network of the Republic of Estonia. The ENRA was established on November 1,
1990. It is a government institution operating under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTC). The ENRA is responsible for the national road network of 16,430 kilometers
including: 1,357 kilometers of main roads; 2,666 kilometers of basic roads; and 12,494 kilometers of local
roads. The ENRA manages 15 district road offices and a Technical Center. Within the district road
offices there are 48 roadmaster districts and 17 work sites. The ENRA is a non-profit governmental
organization operating in accordance with the Roads Act (adopted on February 17, 1999) and the Statute
of the Road Administration (approved January 10, 1997). The ENRA has been undergoing reforms since
1998 by (i) including the use of economic analysis as a basis for maintenance planning; (ii) shifting most of
its periodic maintenance from force account operations to contracting with private contractors through
competitive bidding; (iii) introducing the use of new road maintenance technology and equipment; (iv)
strengthening its laboratory and quality control procedures; (v) reducing the amount of state property
owned by the road offices; and (vi) improving the administrative procedures of the road offices. The
ENRA was the implementing agency for the Bank's first transport project in Estonia, through which it
received assistance in implementing these reforms.
Estonia does not have a dedicated road fund. The ENRA receives a budget each year comprised of
finances from the general state funds, foreign loans, and the government reserves. The budget for roads
-3 -



does not allow for carry over amounts into the next year's program. The Roads Act adopted by Parliament
on February 17, 1999 (replacing the Highway Act of December 19, 1991) specifies the amount of
earmarked funds, from the excise taxes paid into the state budget, that would be for roads. Prior to this law
there was no correlation between the road budget and the excise taxes collected. This act allows for 75
percent of the motor fuel excise and 100 percent of the motor vehicle excise to be put to road financing.
The Roads Act was supposed to go into effect on January 1, 2000, but was revised recently to delay its
effectiveness until January 2001. The percentage of motor fuel excise for road maintenance will now be 55
percent for 2001, increasing to 65 percent and 75 percent for the years 2002 and 2003, respectively. For
2000, before the Roads Act financing goes into effect, the ENRA's budget is expected to be 794 million
EEK (US$53 million), which is approximately the same level as the budget level for 1999 in constant
prices. The budget for 2000 may be augmented by about 25 percent from a loan for the Via Baltica Project
from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The budget level for 2001 is estimated to rise to 1,134 million
EEK (US$76 million) when the Roads Act goes into effect, and will be further augrnented by the remainder
of the EIB loan and by the Transport Project. An additional source of financing for roads, albeit minor, is
the fines collected from users breaking road laws. This money is then distributed among the budgets for the
networks of national roads, local roads, and urban streets and roads.
The Motor Vehicle Excise is paid one time by the producer or importer of the vehicle. The amount paid is
determined by the cylinder capacity and age of the vehicle.
In June 1999, the Fuel Excise tax composed about 50 percent of the average gasoline price and 47 percent
of the average diesel price.
Table 1. June 1999 Fuel Prices and Taxes in Estonia
Average price/liter    Tax/liter     Percent of fuel price for excise tax
Gasoline        7.0 EEK                3.50 EEK      50%
(US$0.47)'            (US$0.23)
Diesel fuel     5.4 EEK                2.52 EEK      47%
(US$0.36)             (US$0.17)
a. Percentage calculated using values in EEK.
b. US$I = 15 EEK
Source: World Bank mission (June 1999) and Fuel Excise Duty Act (June 17, 1993)
There is a Motor Vehicle Tax which is paid into the local government budget for repair of streets and
roads. It is an annual tax, but presently it is established only in Tallinn. The tax charged is 5 EEK
(US$0.33) per kilowatt of motor power.
The budget for roads in Estonia has been steadily increasing, but the amount estimated by the ENRA to
reflect the needs in roadkeeping exceeds the actual amount allocated. With the Roads Act, the estimated
needs and revenues are more closely matched.
-4 -



Table 2. Estonia: National Roads Budget and Needs
140   ;          
120
t    1 100
0 Acceptable le%i
80                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Loans
U Total budget
20
0
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Source: ENRA, 1999
Road Safety. The safety level of road traffic in Estonia is poor and continues to deteriorate in absolute
numbers of injuries and fatalities. Some 1990 people were injured and 284 were killed in traffic crashes in
1998 compared to 1547 injured and 213 killed in 1996. The present rate of fatalities per 10,000 vehicles
as well as the rate of injuries per 10,000 vehicles in Estonia is approximately three times higher than in
Finland. This shows that the consequences of car crashes are extremely severe in Estonia. During the last
five years the growth of motorization in Estonia has been one of the highest in Europe. There were 295
vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants in 1998 compared to 376 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants in Finland, and the
forecast shows that there will be some 440 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants in the year 2010. The growth in
motorization will substantially increase the risk of death and injury for all groups of road users. The annual
socio-economic cost of car crashes (about US$100 million) already exceeds 2.5 percent of GDP.
The Estonian Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) has delegated the responsibility for
road traffic safety development to the ENRA. The Traffic Police Department is working in close
collaboration with the ENRA with the aim of gradually curbing the gro'wth in accident numbers and
severity that has taken place since 1996. The ENRA has also assumed the responsibility for developing
public road safety information, education programs for vulnerable road users, and formulating road traffic
legislation. A program called Plan 100, which is targeted at reducing the number of fatalities caused by car
crashes to 100 by year 2015, has been drafted and debated. Well planned and determined actions are
required to meet this goal. The first key issue is to create a sense of commitment among decision makers to
implement the actions proposed in Plan 100. This sense of commitment already exists within the MOTC,
as evidenced by a letter dated November 17, 1999, from the Minister of Transport and Communications
(see files).
-5-



Trade Facilitation. Foreign trade represents a major part of Estonia's gross domestic product (GDP).
Exports of goods and services reached 83 percent of GDP in 1997, while imports were 97 percent.
Transport, transit, and trade play a significant role in the Estonian economy, accounting for 29 percent of
GDP in 1997, compared to 19 percent for manufacturing. In 1998, transit traffic represented 70 percent of
port and rail throughput and about 50 percent of turnover of logistic and transport companies. Estonian
trade has been characterized since 1990 by a shift of trade towards the European Union (EU) at the
expense of Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
The recent reorientation of trade towards processing of EU inputs for re-export enables Estonia to reach a
new category of clients, more demanding quality-wise but also more rewarding in terms of value added.
The quality and reliability of the logistic services supporting trade have become parameters by which
Estonian companies will be increasingly judged. As illustrated by the trade statistics, the dependence on
Russia has sharply decreased, although the Russian crisis is partly responsible for the slowing of the
economy in 1999. Given the precarious position of Russia, an objective of this project is the improvement
in logistic services to stimulate export and re-export after processing.
Estonia has come a long way on the privatization of its transport services. The port of Tallinn is a landlord
port, with leasing agreements for the private operators. The concessioning of a new container terminal is
under evaluation. The railway operators are in the process of being privatized and the trucking industry is
already private.
Administrative barriers arising from customs or standards requirements are still substantial. These barriers
penalize Estonian companies in their effort to compete effectively and reduce the ability of Estonia to
attract increased foreign direct investment. Despite noticeable improvements in customs administration,
companies report that undue delays occur and that the non-acceptance of electronically transmitted
documents as official documents generates a significant excess cost to trade. The understaffmg of customs,
the insufficient quality of communications with banks, and the paper-based procedures are the core issues.
The customs administration is proceeding with its plan to introduce ASYCUDA (a computerized customs
information system introduced by UNCTAD and installed in about 70 countries) by October 1999. The
introduction of critical modules allowing for direct trader input (Broker's Module) will be delayed until the
Law on Electronic Commerce is adopted. This law is expected to validate the use of electronically
transmitted documents for official purposes such as the submission of documents for customs clearance.
The government believes that Estonian growth and development in the years ahead can be encouraged by
making Estonia a major transshipment point for goods passing through the region, with beneficial side
effects in terms of value-added activities as goods transit the country. To accomplish this requires an
efficient and competitive transport system, efficient transit procedures, and trade supporting services. The
strategy adopted by the government aims at: (i) diversifying transit activities to other products than oil; and
(ii) expanding the level of import-re-export and export activities.
During project preparation the government, in cooperation with the private sector and with technical
support from the Danish Government and the World Bank, prepared a comprehensive Strategic Plan and an
Action Plan that would enable the development by the private sector of more competitive trade supporting
services. A team of foreign and local consultants prepared, in close cooperation with public and private
stakeholders, these two documents that were then presented by the Minister of Transport to the Cabinet of
Ministers and to a broad audience of 200 private-public participants. The Estonian Infrastructure and
Transit Development Foundation (EDIT) was created to assist in implementing the Action Plan. The EDIT
is a non-profit organization that receives financial support from the government and from the private
-6 -



transport service community in Estonia. Its board includes private and public officials.
The government intends, through the Strategic Plan, to provide guidelines for the public sector to establish
a competitive environment for trade and transport businesses. The Strategic Plan outlines five main
directions to ensure the establishment of an enabling environment: (i) laws and regulations ensuring the
development of trade supporting services and infrastructure on an equal basis, taking into account the EU
accession process; (ii) efficient public private partnership, based on combined resources, close and
objective co-operation and perception of a common goal; (iii) access to capital for the Estonian economy on
equal terms and conditions as competitors; (iv) provision of quality education, training and research on
trade supporting services; and (v) easy Estonian access to global markets and foreign access to the
Estonian market.
The Action Plan goes one step further in identifying the activities to be carried out to implement the
Strategic Plan, their level of priority (based on expert assessment), the government entity in charge, the
bottleneck that will be alleviated, and the estimated human (local/foreign) and financial resources required.
The Action Plan is an evolving document consisting of more than one hundred actions, and is available in
project files. Legal aspects include among other things the assessment of re-export/re-import under the
customs law, the adoption of relevant international rules and convention (i.e. as first priority the Customs
Convention on Containers, the Multimodal Convention and the Kyoto Convention on simplification and
harmonization of the Customs procedures) or the adoption of an electronic commerce law. Physical
aspects include items such as the upgrading of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road and the introduction of an
Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) system for transport activities. The cost of installing an EDI system,
however, has been drastically reduced during the past year as the use of the Internet has elimninated the need
for expensive hardware. The proposed establishment of several Councils (relating to multimodal issues,
EDI, and Trade Facilitation) will allow better coordination between parties involved in trade. The
improvement of these services are expected to attract foreign companies as investors or partners and lead to
an increase in trade and transit activities.
Some of these activities will be undertaken as part of the overall program of the government, while others
will be implemented by the EDIT. The tentative work program of the EDIT includes research projects,
strengthening of statistics, coordination of the Action Plan with other sectors, training, marketing and
promotion activities, and coordination with the private sector via councils and working groups.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In order to achieve the government's objective of establishing a comprehensive system of trade
supporting infrastructure and services capable of moving goods through Estonia quickly and at
competitive cost, it will be necessary to make improvements in all aspects of the movement of goods.
As described above, each element of the system has been the object of detailed study to determine what
improvements are necessary and how they should be accomplished, and how all of the elements of the
system can be integrated into a comprehensive whole. The Action Plan that has been prepared will
serve to guide project implementation. The overall program is being coordinated by the Estonian
Infrastructure and Transit Development Foundation (EDIT), an inter-ministerial body that includes
participation of and interaction with the private trade and transport sector. The government and the
EDIT are capable of implementing the program for trade facilitation with their own resources except
for the purchase and installation of the EDI system. The government believes, however, that additional
investigation and research is needed before deciding on which type of EDI system is most suitable for
Estonia, and has decided to limit its commitment to a pilot installation at this time.
- 7 -



Road improvements to be included in the Project will be limited to the sections of the
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road that will have only a limited impact on the environment, along with road
safety and a continuation of the institutional strengthening of the ENRA that was begun under the
previous World Bank-financed Highway Maintenance Project. Sections of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa
road requiring substantial realignment and/or that would pass through Estonia's extensive peat swamps
would be left out of this project and considered in a subsequent project after a Category A
environmental assessment has been completed and land acquisition issues have been resolved. This
will allow the project to move ahead rapidly, since only a Category B environmental review will be
required and there will be only minor land acquisition issues.
The project will contribute to traffic safety development in Estonia by improving the traffic
environment along the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road, by addressing specific road traffic accident black
spots elsewhere on the national road network, and by providing assistance for arranging seminars,
training, education and public campaigns as well as technical assistance for development of systems
and technology addressing road traffic safety problems typical for the traffic conditions and traffic
behavior in Estonia.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Civil works to upgrade portions of    Highways      43.30       87.5     22.00       88.0
the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road.
2. The project will improve road safety  Highways       4.35        8.8      2.65       10.6
conditions along the
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road, and
address specific accident black spots
elsewhere on the national road network.
The project will also provide assistance
for arranging seminars, training,
education, and public campaigns as
well as tec'nical'assistance for
development of systems and technology
aimed at addressing road traffic safety
problems typical for the traffic
conditions and traffic behavior in
Estonia.
- 8-



3. Technical services to continue the  Highways           1.50        3.0       0.00        0.0
institutional strengthening of the ENRA
that was begun under the Highway
Maintenance Project, including
organizational restructuring, improved
budgeting, and adoption of procedures
that will permit contracting out of
routine maintenance.
4. Trade facilitation measures designed   Other           0.10         0.2      0.10        0.4
to increase Estonia's transit traffic and   Transportation
to expand the level of value-added
import-re-export activities by
improvements in laws and regulations,
public-private cooperation, access to
capital, education and research on trade
supporting activities, and easy access
to global markets, including an Internet
web site. The Bank-financed part of
this component will include the
hardware and software required to
implement a pilot electronic data
system for providing one-stop border
clearances in Estonia.
Total Project Costs                     49.25        99.5     24.75       99.0
Front-end fee                      0.25        0.5       0.25        1.0
Total Financing Required                      49.50      100.0      25.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(i) Adequate financing arrangements for road maintenance.
(ii) Legal and regulatory changes identified as necessary for improving trade supporting infrastructure and
services.
(iii) Active partnership between private and public parties involved in trade supporting activities.
(iv) Improvements in road safety.
(v) Institutional strengthening of the ENRA.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The overall benefits will be savings in transport costs and delivery times, thus facilitating both
international and local trade. This will help to establish Estonia as a major transit country for goods
moving through and around the Baltic region, with benefits for the economy as a whole because of
trade-related economic activities that are expected to develop. The promotion of Estonia as a trade, transit
and value-added partner will attract foreign direct investment and give a new dynamic to local service
providers. Also, the project will assist in preserving the considerable investments in infrastructure assets,
improve traffic safety, enhance reliability of transport to and from Estonia, and generate employment
through the increased spending on road construction.
-9-



Target Population. The beneficiaries will include the public as users of the transport system, and in
particular shippers, farmers, and manufacturers. Indirect beneficiaries will include a large number of
people affected by the increase in overall economic activity resulting from the improved infrastructure and
Estonia's enlarged role in transshipments in the Baltic region.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agencies. Project implementation will be managed by a Project Implementation Unit (PII)
established within the ENRA, under the general policy guidance of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. The PIU staffing will include persons recruited from the ENRA's regular staff, plus
several persons recruited from outside of the ENRA structure, bearing in mind the requirements for
financial management and procurement spelled out in the financial and procurement assessments. The road
upgrading components will be carried out by the regular staff of the ENRA under the guidance of the PIU,
utilizing the experience with World Bank procedures learned during implementation of the Highway
Maintenance Project. Annual work plans will be submitted prior to the beginning of each calendar year,
and quarterly progress reports will be sent to the Bank within 30 days after the end of each quarter. The
trade facilitation component will be implemented by the Estonia Infrastructure and Transit Trade
Development Foundation, which includes representatives of the interested miinistries and agencies as well as
representatives of the private sector, in cooperation with the ENRA's PIU for procurement actions.
Project financial management (see Annex 5). A financial management system for the project will be
developed in the PIU and the ENRA and documented in a Project Financial Management Manual. Key
actions relating to the financial management to be completed before project start include: (a) recruitment of
a qualified accountant/financial specialist for the PIU; (b) procurement and installation of a project
accounting and financial management system for the PIU, and development and adoption of the financial
mnanagement manual for the project; (c) engagement of private independent auditors; and (d) appointment
of financial management technical support consultants who would provide qualified financial professionals
to support the operation of the financial management system and training of project staff. This
arrangement is very important given the absence of qualified financial project staff in the PIU and the need
to orient the staff on the improved financial management system. A time-bound action plan for the
strengthening of the fmancial management system for PMR disbursements will be implemented by June 30,
2000.
Disbursements from the loan would initially be made on the basis of traditional disbursement procedures.
Once the Bank has approved the PIIUs financial management system for Project Management Report
(PMR) based disbursements, the Borrower may choose to substitute the traditional disbursement
procedures for PMR-based disbursement procedures. The PIU will be responsible for preparing quarterly
PMRs to support withdrawal applications. The format and timing of Quarterly PMRs were discussed and
agreed at Negotiations.
Accounting, financial reporting, and audit arrangements. The PIU will carry out financial accounting
and maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS). Also, the PIU will be responsible for consolidating project
financial statements for all project components, including preparing project management reports, project
progress reports and procurement management reports of which format was agreed at Negotiations.
Project records, accounts, PMRs and the Special Account will be audited annually by private independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (ISA). The audit report and certified copies of financial statements will be submitted to the
- 10-



Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year audited. For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Loan Account are made on basis of PMRs or SOEs, the PrIU will retain,
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report, all records evidencing such expenditures,
and will enable the Bank's representatives and auditors to examine such records.
Project oversight. Three Bank missions will be required for each year of the four-year implementation
period, with two weeks required during the first year, gradually reducing to one week after the second year.
The missions will consist of the program team leader/highway engineer, supplemented by a trade transport
specialist, road safety engineer, an economist, financial analyst, training specialist, and bridge specialist as
necessary. A Mid-Term Review, involving relevant Borrower agencies and Bank staff, will be carried out
at about 24 months after loan effectiveness.
Retroactive Financing. up to EUR1.0 million is permitted for project-related procurement carried out after
December 10, 1999 and before the Loan signing date, if World Bank procurement procedures are followed
during the procurement process.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Various other physical improvements of the transport system were considered, including ports and air
transport infrastructure, based in part on the EU-Phare-financed study entitled Transport Infrastructure
Needs Assessment - Central and Eastern Europe (TINA) dated June 1998, but were found not in urgent
need of public investment at this time. However, this will change as the system expands, and over time
additional civil works improvements for transport infrastructure will be necessary. Additional investments
needed in the railway system are being addressed through an EBRD-fmnanced Railway Upgrading Project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
fE. Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) Ratings
_   . _.   .   4              | - - -      E ~~~~~~(Bank-financed proJects only)
Implemenaaaion   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (Do)
Highway Maintenance                Highway Maintenance Project       HS             S
(Completed)
Other development agencies
EBRD                               Railway Upgrading -
Tallinn-Narva (ongoing).
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 11 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has broad experience in improving transport systems around the world. This includes the
importance of ensuring that existing systems are well maintained before investing in expanded systems,
something that Estonia is now well aware of and has largely incorporated in its road operations. The
experience with the Highway Maintenance Project showed that Estonia is fully capable of implementing
World Bank projects and can cope with the procurement and other requirements without major difficulty.
The Estonian National Road Administration (ENRA) has become familiar with, and accepts, the use of
economic analysis for making investment decisions for the road network, and the use of contracting for
both maintenance and new construction. The use of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) systems for
tracking shipments is a new technology for Estonia, and the Bank will be drawing on its experience in other
countries to assist in Estonia's efforts to join the forefront of countries that utilize it.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Estonia remembers the benefits that accrued to the country as a member of the Hanseatic League in the
15th and 16th centuries. It appears fully committed to recreating what it considers to be its role in
transport movements from this earlier period because it believes that this is its best strategy for economic
advancement in the years ahead. The Strategy and Action Plan prepared by the governnent states in detail
the overall direction that Estonia is committed to follow. During project preparation, the ENRA felt the
need to improve the overall quality of the feasibility study prepared by its staff, and hired an intemational
consultant with its own funds for this purpose. The commitment to improvements in road safety was
underscored by a letter from the Mirister of Transport and Communications dated November 17, 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will play an important role in assuring that Estonia is aligned with the latest technology for road
design and upgrading, road safety, and transport trade facilitation, including the use of modem economic
analysis tools such as EDI. The Bank will also play a critical role in coordinating the efforts of the EU and
other donors who wish to support the project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$33 million; ERR = 32.3 %
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The cost benefit analysis was based on the road improvement component, which has a cost before
contingencies of US$37.7 million. The World Bank computer model HDM-III was used to calculate the
economic rate of return, based on pavement characteristics obtained from the Estonia PMS databank.
Traffic data indicated that traffic has grown along the Tallinn-Tartu road on average at 8.2 percent per
year from 1993 to 1998. Based on this information, the traffic growth for the year 1999 was assumed to
be 8.0 percent per year for all vehicles. For the years 2000 to 2010, traffic was forecast to grow at the rate
of 3.7 percent for cars, 1.8 percent for buses, and 2.4 percent for trucks, and 1.0 percent for all types of
vehicles from 2011 to 2020.
Net Present Value was calculated on the basis of 12 percent cost of capital. Shadow pricing was not
considered necessary since the altemative opportunities for labor in the existing economic environment are
not plentiful. Therefore, the current costs do not need to be adjusted to reflect alternative opportunity costs.
- 12-



Further, the exchange rate, under a currency board system, is at a realistic level and therefore the values for
costs and benefits used in the analysis do not need to be adjusted.
A detailed sensitivity analysis was carried out on the basis of a series of changes in costs and benefits,
value of time, changes in accident benefits, and traffic growth rates. A complete description of the
alternative assumptions and economic results based on these assumptions is contained in Annex 4. The
sensitivity tests indicate that under none of the sensitivity scenarios did the internal rate of return fall below
12 percent, either for the entire program or for any of the selected alternatives.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Not applicable, as the ENRA is not a revenue-producing institution.
Financial management assessment report dated November 25, 1999 is available in Project Files, and is
summarized in Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the Bank lending will be borne by the Ministry of Finance, since the ENRA is a
government agency financed through the central government budget. The negative fiscal impact for
ENRA would be limited to the provision of counterpart funds, which could reduce the government's ability
and/or willingness to provide financing for other road activities in the same fiscal year, including road
maintenance. Counterpart financing would amount to a maximum of US$7.0 million equivalent in the
peak years 2002 and 2003, representing 14 percent of the ENRA's 1999 budget level and 9 percent of the
level projected for the year 2001, which should be manageable.
The experience with the Estonian Government's provision of counterpart funds for the previous
IBRD-fmnanced Highway Maintenance Project was that the funds were always provided promptly and in
full.
3. Technical:
There are no major technical issues.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The main executing agency will be the ENRA, which is responsible for the maintenance and construction of
the country's national road network The ENRA is in the process of transforning its organizational
structure to reflect greater use of contracting for routine road maintenance (new construction and some
periodic maintenance is already being carried out by contracts based on competitive bidding).
b. Project management:
The project would be managed by a PIU established within ENRA consisting of about five persons. ENRA
is familiar with the World Bank project and procurement procedures, and is fully competent to execute the
new project if it adds a small number of additional staff for this purpose, as recommnended in the financial
and procurement assessments. No foreign experts will be needed to assist ENRA with project
administration, although the staff will need some training and guidance from the World Bank staff to
become famniliar with the changes in the Bank's procurement and financial procedures since the
implementation of the Highway Maintenance Project. Procurement for the trade facilitation component
- 13-



would be originated by the Estonian Infrastructure and Transit Development Foundation (EDIT), which
would receive guidance from the ENRA's PIU regarding World Bank procurement procedures.
5. Social:
An inportant objective of the project is to increase revenues, investment, and employment from increased
private investment and to improve the competitiveness of Estonia's productive sector, including agriculture
and forest products as well as manufactured goods. While not exclusively targeted to the poorer segment
of society, it will provide an important means for sustainable income generation.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: B
The project will only include civil works for upgrading or rehabilitating road segments that require minor
or no realigmnent. Therefore, the project would have only a limited environmental impact. A preliminary
environmental review was carried out in June, 1999, and completed in November 1999. This review
generated an Action Plan for implementing mitigation measures found to be necessary relating to the use of
asphalt plants, the mining of aggregates, and safety measures for work crews during construction. It also
assesses the status of the limited land acquisitions issues related to the Tartu bypass. No occupied
buildings will need to be acquired and hence no resettlement is necessary.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The formulation of the Strategic and Action Plans for trade facilitation were the result of a massive
collaboration effort between private and public stakeholders led by the Ministry of Transport and
Conumunications. The list of parties consulted included: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment, the freight forwarders association, the
Chamber of Commerce, transport companies (rail, road, air, maritime), the Customs Administration, and
manufacturing companies.
The discussion on electronic data interchange for Estonia was jointly conducted on the Internet by the
EDIT and the World Bank. This open forum enabled the participation of a long list of Estonian and
foreign specialists. This medium enabled Estonia to obtain examples from Colombia, Chile, the EU and
guidance from the World Customs Organization (WCO) on electronic data interchange (EDI) matters.
The results of the discussion are maintained on the external World Bank web site and available for anyone
to consult.
Primary beneficiaries of the road upgrading will be the users of Estonia's transport system, including
farmers, business people, and the general public, as well as the transport industry and the industries that
will benefit from value-added activities from increased transit traffic.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders include the business associations related to the beneficiaries, including agricultural
associations and other industry-related groups as mentioned above. Some of these groups have influence
with the Parliament, and may be able to support necessary legislative changes.
-14 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: .
Once in place, the system established to facilitate trade and transport should be sustained because it will
become part of Estonia's regular trade and transport operations. The road civil works and institution
building components should be sustainable because the ENRA is a competent organization that has already
demonstrated its effectiveness in maintaining the road network during the Highway Maintenance Project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Upgraded road from Tallinn to the          N         The use of the HDM model during project
Latvian and Russian borders may not                  analysis demonstrates if that road roughness is
result in reduced vehicle operating costs.          improved, vehicle operating costs will be
reduced.
Safety improvements may not lead to        M        Foreign consultants with broad experience in
reduced accidents.                                   designing accident black spot improvements and
other aspects of the road safety program will
assist the ENRA.
The use of the PMS, increased and          M         Training of staff to use the measures effectively
improved budgeting, and contracting for             is part of the project design.
routine maintenance may not lead to
better road maintenance administration.
The EDI system may not be sufficiently     M         The EDIT staff made a detailed study of EDI
effective to attract private investors.              systems in other countries to learn from their
experiences.
From Components to Outputs
Government counterpart funds may not be    M         Experience with previous loans indicates that no
made available on a timely basis.                   special measures are necessary to mitigate this
risk.
Cooperation may not be received from all   M         Cooperation between the administrative and
of the participating agencies in the road           legislative branches in Estonia is fairly good.
safety program.
The ENRA may not assign appropriate        M         The assignment of financial and procurement
manpower for improving its technical                 personnel will be a requirement of the project.
capabilities.
The EDIT may not have the skills to        M         The EDIT personnel have already achieved a
chose the correct EDI system.                        high degree of competence in this field through
training and support from their Nordic
neighbors.
- 15-



Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects are anticipated for this project.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) The Project Implementation Unit (PII) has been established and is operating with resources, staff, and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii) Auditors have been appointed with the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
I. Board Conditions:
(i) Agreement to implement the plan of action to improve the financial management required for the
handling of project accounts, as outlined in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, Attachment 7.
(ii) Agreement to carry out the Procurement Action Plan, included as Attachmnent 8 in the Agreed Minutes
of Negotiations, to improve ENRA's procurement capabilities.
(iii) Completion of first year's design and bidding documents.
II. Other Conditions
(i) The Government will provide fnancing for the maintenance of the national road network by the ENRA
at a level that increases on a regular basis at least at the same rate as increases in the overall Estonian
Government Budget, using the year 2000 budget as a base, but in no case lower than the level of the year
2000 budget in constant prices.
(ii) The Government will provide counterpart financing for the improvements in the
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road included in the project on a regular and timely basis as needed to carry out the
agreed construction schedule.
(iii) Not later than November 30 of each year, the Government will furnish the Bank the annual work
program for the next year, including procurement and financing plans, and will review these plans with the
Bank before implementing them.
- 16-



(iv) The Governnent will submit to the Bank a quarterly Project Progress Report not later that 30 days
after the end of the quarter outlining progress made in the implementation of each project component, as
well as the problems encountered and how they are being addressed.
(v) The Government and the Bank will carry out a Mid-Term Review by December 31, 2001, and will
make any necessary adjustments in the project deemed necessary by that Review.
(vi) The Government will prepare, not later than 6 months after the closing date, a plan for the future
operation of the Project activities, and the Government's input into the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), both of which will be reviewed with the Bank.
(vii) Agreement to implement an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Land Acquisition Plan
satisfactory to the Bank that will assure compliance with Estonian and World Bank environmental
requirements.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is completed and is available in the project files.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
__  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _      __  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _                             i 1m(Kp' S  7E Lo
Cesar Queiroz                    RicatdoA. H    erin               Basil G. Kavalsly
Team Leader                      Sector Managerlr                  Country Manager/Director
- 17-






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectlves          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    C ritiaI Assumptorns
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Develop adequate and       Reduction in overall transport Quarterly progress reports,   Improved transport system
effective road infrastructure   costs                trade statistics, and       will result in increased private
and supportive administrative                         Implementation Completion   sector development
and legal framework to     Easier transit traffic through  Report (ICR)
support private sector    Estonia
development
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Reduce road transport costs 1. I Roughness of road reduced 1. I Road roughness surveys   1. I Reduced transport costs
between Estonia's two largest from an average IRI of 4.0    of completed sections and road will help stimulate private
cities and the Latvian and  m/km to 2.5 m/km by project from Tallinn to the border    sector development
Russian borders           completion
2. Improve Estonia's road  2.1 Fatalities per 10,000  2.1 Government accident    2.1 Improved road safety
safety performance        vehicles reduced from 4.7 to  statistics               conditions will improve the
3.2 over the life of the project                      general investment climate
3. Strengthen Estonia's road   3.1 Routine maintenance  3.1 Quarterly progress and    3.1 Improved road
administration            contracted out increased from  supervision reports,    administration will lead to a
0 in 1999 to 30% of overall   Government's annual budget, better road network, which in
routine maintenance budget  and supervision reports  turn will lead to an improved
over the life of the project                          investment climate
3.2 PMS installed and                                 3.2 Use of the PMS will
functioning:                                          improve the ENRA's
Baseline: 10%                                         efficiency
Mid: 50%
End: 100%
3.3 Regular increases in the
ENRA's annual budget from
US$50 m. in 1999 to US$100
m. in 2005
4. Improve competitiveness of 4.1 Estonia's non-bulk transit 4.1 Transit statistics and  4.1 Improved trade supporting
Estonia's trade supporting    traffic increases by 5 percent  annual economic data;  infrastructure and services
infrastructure and services    per year from 2000 to 2005    quarterly progress report  will stimulate private
investment
-18 -



Output fror each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. I Portions of the       1.1 Road upgrading completed Quarterly progress reports   1. I Upgraded road will lead to
Tallinn-Tartu road upgraded  on the basis of an agreed  and supervision missions  reduced vehicle operating
schedule by km (see PIP)    Mid-term review           costs
2.1 Traffic management     2.1 Traffic management     Quarterly progress reports and 2.1 Safety improvements will
system installed, black spots  system installed       supervision missions       lead to reduced accidents
improved, safety education    2.2 Number of accident black
program under way          spots per year improved
2.3 Safety education program
in operation
3.1 Increased routine      3.1 Routine maintenance    Quarterly progress reports and 3.1 Use of the PMS, increased
maintenance by contract    contracted out increased from  supervision missions   and improved budgeting,
0 in 1999 to 30 % of overall                          contracting for routine
routine maintenance budget                            maintenance will lead to better
over the life of the project                          road maintenance
3.2 Increased use of the PMS  3.2 PMS installed and                              administration
functioning:
Baseline: 10%
Mid: 50%
End: 100%
3.3 Increased budget for the   3.3 Regular increases in the
ENRA                       ENRA's annual budget from
US$50 m. in 1999 to US$100
m. in 2005
4.1 EDI system providing   4.1 Pilot EDI installed and    Quarterly progress reports    4.1 A functional EDI system
support to exporters and   operating                                             will increase Estonia's
importers                                                                        attractiveness to private
investors and will attract
transit traffic
-19 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Civil works to upgrade  US$43.30 million equivalent  Quarterly progress reports and 1. I Government counterpart
portions of the                                       supervision missions       funds will be available
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road.
2.1 Improvement in road    US$4.35 million equivalent   Quarterly progress reports and 2.1 Cooperation will be
safety, including installation                       supervision missions        received from all of the
of a traffic management                                                          participating agencies
system, upgrading of accident
black spots, safety education
3.1 Technical services to  US$1.50 million equivalent   Quarterly progress reports and 3.1 The ENRA will assign
strengthen the ENRA,                                  supervision missions       appropriate manpower for
including organizational                                                         carrying out these tasks
restructuring, improved
budgeting, improvements in
road safety practices and
procedures, and contracting
out of routine road
maintenance.
4.1 Installation of a pilot EDI US$0.10 million equivalent   Quarterly progress reports and 4.1 The EDIT will have the
System                                                supervision missions       skills to identify an
appropriate EDI system and
install it
-20-






Annex 2: Project Description
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$43.30 million
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of portions of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa Road
(a) Rehabilitation of priority sections of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road (US$30.0 million
equivalent):
The renovation and upgrading of different sections totaling 176 km of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road
takes into consideration that in the future the road will be widened to 4 lanes. The road has a total length of
288.7 km and travels diagonally across Estonia territory connecting the capital of Estonia (Tallinn) with the
second largest city in population (Tartu) and the border with Latvia and Russia. IBRD support would
include financing of design and supervision. The subcomponents to be included in the project are as
follows:
i) Rehabilitation of 24.4 km of the 48 km Kose-Mao road section, estimated to cost US$4.5 million
equivalent, would involve renovation consisting of stabilizing the subbase, putting down a new asphalt
concrete road surface, and associated shoulders, drainage and road markings.
ii) The Mao-Tartu section is 93 km in length, with 79.2 km to be renovated as described above at an
estimated cost of US$13.9 million equivalent.
iii) 72.9 km of the 95 km Tartu-Luhamaa road to be renovated as described above at an estimated
cost of US$11.6 million equivalent.
(b) Widening of the Tartu Ring Road and Interchange (US$13.3 million equivalent):
i) Construction of the second two lanes and renovation of the existing two lanes of a 5 km section at an
estimated cost of US$7.5 million equivalent.
ii) Construction of the Torvandi grade separated interchange at an estirnated cost of US$5.8 million
equivalent.
Project Component 2 - US$4.35 million
Improvement in Road Safety
The Project's road safety component would include the construction of civil works to eliminate accident
black spots, installation of long life road markings for new asphalt pavements, road side delineators,
changeable traffic signs, automatic speed control cameras, creation of campaign materials for a road safety
educational campaign, technical assistance to coach the traffic police, training courses in road safety
strategies and information campaigns, four regional training sessions in accident risk analysis and definition
of accident remedials, and software and training for analyzing the impact of remedial actions at the network
level.
Project Component 3 - USS 1.50 million
Institutional strengthening, training, office and laboratory equipment
This component would provide continued assistance to the ENRA for strengthening its operational
capacity, including assistance for continuing the work on routine maintenance by contract, improvement of
the Pavement Management System (PMS), assistance in improving financial management, and additional
support for the ENRA personnel in road design and supervision for improvements in the main road
network, including Via Baltica and the Tallimn-Tartu-Luhamaa road. It would also include some additional
office and laboratory equipment. The fmnancial support for this component is expected to be provided by
bilateral agencies, including the EU and Finland. In addition, institutional strengthening would include
establishing an environmental unit within the ENRA whose duties would include coordination of
environmental and socio-community studies and environmental oversight of project implementation.
- 21 -



Project Component 4 - US$0.10 million
Trade facilitation
This component will include carrying out part of the action plan prepared during project preparation,
including the specific actions aimed at developing an environment with (i) laws and regulations to ensure
the development of trade supporting services and infrastructure on an equal and fair basis, taking into
account the EU accession process; (ii) support for creation of an efficient public and private partnership
based on combined resources, close and objective cooperation and the perception of a common goal; (iii)
access to capital for the Estonian economy on equal terms and conditions as competitors; (iv) provision of
quality education, training and research on trade supporting services; and (v) easy Estonian access to
global markets and foreign access to the Estonian market. It will also include the hardware and software
required to implement a pilot electronic system for providing one-stop border clearances in Estonia by the
year 2003. The system installed will be compatible with EU standards and allow for a direct transfer of
electronic data related to shipments at border crossing of Estonia's main EU partners. The component will
be carried out by the Estonian Infrastructure and Transit Development Foundation. Support from project
financing will be limited to the amount needed to obtain and install the hardware and software needed for a
pilot Internet-based EDI system.
- 22 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
PrQJcWtX Gst YCmpo.t -               i US  mIiOn U S o    U
Upgrade of Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa Road:                                            0.00
-Civil Works Contracts                                 10.90        25.40        36.30
-Design & Supervision                                   0.65         0.65         1.30
Road Safety:                                                                      0.00
- Consultant Services                                   0.00         0.56         0.56
- Equipment                                             0.00         0.87         0.87
- Civil Works                                           0.70         1.65         2.35
Institutional Strengthening:                                                      0.00
-Consultant Services                                    0.31         0.95         1.26
Trade Facilitation                                                                0.00
-Software and Hardware                                  0.00         0.10         0.10
Total Baseline Cost                                    12.56        30.18        42.74
Physical Contingencies                                 1.25         3.02         4.27
Price Contingencies                                    0.66         1.58         2.24
Total Project Costs            14.47        34.78        49.25
Front-end fee                   0.25         0.25
Total Financing Required            14.47        35.03        49.50
Project- cost                               [o    ' *g  y    $mfto  U.S
Goods                                                     0.00         0.97         0.97
Works                                                    11.60         27.05       38.65
Services                                                  0.96          2.16        3.12
Unallocated                                               1.91         4.60         6.51
Total Project Costs    14.47        34.78        49.25
Front-end fee                  0.25         0.25
Total Financing Required    14.47         35.03       49.50
- 23-






Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Total Cost of the Road Component (before contingencies)  US$37.7 million equivalent
Net Present Value (based on cost of capital of 12 percent)  US$33.0 million equivalent
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)                     32.3 %
Main Assumptions:
The detailed economic analysis is contained in the report entitled "Tallinn-Tartu Road Economic
Evaluation, May 1999" prepared by Rodrigo Archando-Callao and Marek Truu, and the report entitled
"Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa Road Renovation Evaluation, September 1999" prepared by Marek Truu. Road
user costs were computed using the HDM-III model based on user defined inputs on vehicle fleet
characteristics, utilization, and economic unit costs. The average number of bus passengers was 22 and the
equivalent standards axle (ESA) loading factor for heavy trucks and articulated tracks was 1.8 and 3.4
respectively.
The road deterioration prediction of the HDM-III model was calibrated using the information collected for
the study on calibrating the HDM-4 model done in 1998 by the Phare program and the experience of that
study. The road sections pavement characteristics were obtained from the Estonia PMS databank.
Traffic data indicated that traffic has grown along the Tallinn-Tartu road on average at 8.2 percent per
year from 1993 to 1998. Based on this information, the traffic growth for the year 1999 was assumed to
be 8.0 percent per year for all vehicles. For the period 2000 to 2020, traffic predictions were based on the
forecast made by the Tallinn Technical University, which indicates a growth rate of 3.7 percent for cars,
1.8 percent for buses, and 2.4 percent for trucks up to the year 2010, and 1.0 percent for all types of
vehicles from 2011 to 2020.
Improvements of the various road sections were considered on the basis of four alternatives: (i) a base
alternative composed of routine maintenance, 100 percent patching potholes, and renovation when the road
roughness reaches 6.0 IRI; (ii) renovation in the year 2000 followed by routine maintenance, 100 percent
patching of potholes, and future overlays when the road roughness reaches 3.5 IRI; (iii) a 5 centimeter
overlay in the year 2000 followed by routine maintenance, 100 percent patching of potholes, and future
overlays every 5 years; and (iv) for some sections, a 4 lane widening alternative in the year 2000 followed
by routine maintenance, 100 percent patching of potholes, and future overlays when the road roughness
reaches 3.5 IRI, and for other section a new 2 lane road construction in the year 2000 followed by routine
maintenance, 100 percent patching of potholes and future overlays when the road roughness reaches 3.5
RI. In some sections, the renovation work will not be done on the entire section length but only on
segments that warrant renovation.
Net present value was calculated on the basis of 12 percent cost of capital.
Shadow pricing was not considered necessary since the alternative opportunities for labor in the existing
economic environment are not plentiful. Therefore, the current costs do not need to be adjusted to reflect
- 24 -



alternative opportunity costs. Further, the exchange rate, under a currency board system, is at a realistic
level; therefore the values for costs and benefits used in the analysis do not need to be adjusted.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A detailed sensitivity analysis was carried out in the Rodrigo-Truu economic analysis mentioned above for
each road section, assuming that (i) costs increased by 20 percent; (ii) benefits decreased by 20 percent;
(iii) both costs increased and benefits decreased by 20 percent; (iv) value of time decreased by 20 percent;
(v) accident benefits decreased by 20 percent; and (vi) the traffic growth rate was reduced by 50 percent.
The sensitivity tests indicate that under none of the sensitivity scenarios did the internal rate of return fall
below 12 percent, either for the entire program or for any of the selected alternatives.
IRR Sensitiv  Anal sis Results
A        B        C       D       E       F
Value Accident Traffic
Optimnal   Base  Investments Benefits         of Time Benefits Growth
Priority  Section  Alternative  Case   +200/o   -20%    A + B   -20%    -20%   -50%
I   4 Purdi-    Renovate   67.4      58.3     56.4    48.5    65.6    67.4   64.8
Mao I       in 2000                          _
2 Kose Au        n20Rvate   50.3    43.1     41.6    35.1    48.8    50.3   48.0
3   6 Mao nI-  Renovate   43.6       37.1      35.7    29.8    42.4    43.6   41.5
______ IbInatsalu   in 2000
4   Uhtio0 Widn in   36.2            29.1      27.7    22.2    30.7   28.6   32.4
5   5 Kose-     New 2      21.0      17.6      16.9    13.9    19.7    21.0   19.7
Voobu    Lane Road 2
6   3 Voobu-    New 2      27.5      23.2      22.3    18.6    25.7    23.7   25.7
Purdi     Lane Road   2
7                20atsalu- Widenin   24.7  20.3  19.4    15.6    21.0    22.2   22.3
.  Torvandi      2000                         __
5Mo-    New 2
8   MaoI    Lane Road   20.0         16.6      15.9    13.0    17.9    18.6   18.3
Program              28.6       23.8     22.8    18.7    26.7    27.1   26.7
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
(US$ million)
Year  I   Year 2     Year 3     Year 4    Year 5  | Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.9        9.9       12.3       14.8        7.6        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          4.9        9.9       12.3       14.8        7.6        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              4.9        9.9       12.3       14.8        7.6        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.2        6.0        6.0       6.0        4.9       0.0        0.0
Government                 2.1        3.3        5.7        8.2       2.1       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.6        0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     4.9        9.9       12.3       14.8        7.6       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Excluding taxes.
Financial Management Assessment
Existing Financial Management System
The financial management system of the Estonian National Road Administration (ENRA) and the Project
Implemnentation Unit (PIU) within the ENRA was reviewed during project appraisal. The main focus of the
current financial management system in the centralized accounting department is on transactional control
over local expenditures, recording individual transactions and compiling data for reporting by govemment
budget categories. The existing accounting software "Eeva" which runs on Windows 95 is not able to
produce the required level of periodic project management reports, including linking project financial data
with physical progress and procurement management. Project accounting is not integrated into the existing
system but carried out at the PIU on a spreadsheet. There is very limited focus on meeting project
accounting and financial reporting, and capturing sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in
sufficient detail to satisfy Banic reporting requirements.
Internal Controls and Staffing. Internal controls within the ENRA, the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTC) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), are considered adequate. The control
mechanisms in place include (i) operation of budgeting system and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budget and targets; (ii) clear written operational, financial, and accounting policies and
- 26 -



procedures; (iii) control over assets; and (iv) internal and external audit mechanism. Internal control
mechanisms for the project are expected to include (i) segregation of financial and procurement functions;
(ii) regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and targets, monitoring of physical and
financial progress; and (iii) timely feedback on operation of the financial management system. Accounting
functions are carried out in the ENRA's centralized Finance Department, which has a staff of five including
the chief accountant, deputy, chief specialist and two senior accountants. The chief accountant reports
directly to the Director General. The Deputy Director General is the head of the PIU within ENRA. The
accountant to be recruited for the PIU will assist the Finance Department in project financial reporting and
loan disbursements.
Major aspects which need to be addressed for establishment of a satisfactory financial management system
are (i) staffing of the finance function within the PIU and training of staff in better financial management
practices; (ii) establishment of clear financial policies and procedures; and (iii) satisfactory auditing
arrangements that will be used during project implementation. Detailed assessment of the financial
management system including an agreed time-bound action plan and organization charts are in the Project
Files.
Proposed Financial Management System
Project Accounting. An important requirement is the improvement of the accounting system in the PIU
which will be responsible for overall project financial management and reporting, and ensuring that the
system is commensurate with the size and scope of the project. The computerized system will ensure better
classification, compilation, analysis of accounting data, improve controls over data integrity, and ensure
timeliness and quality of accounting and financial reporting. The existing accounting system will be
customized and chart of accounts designed for the project. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
an accounting and financial reporting system adequate to produce PMRs will be in place by June 30, 2000.
Financial Reporting. Consolidated Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Project Financial
Statements will be prepared for the whole project and generated from the computerized financial
management system. The format of such reports was agreed with the project implementing agencies and is
in the project files. The PMRs will be prepared quarterly and will comprise financial reports, progress
reports, and procurement management reports. The Project Financial Statements will be prepared annually
to provide financial management information including that required under PMRs.
Auditing Arrangements. The MOF will be responsible for engaging extemal private auditors before
commencement of Project activities to ensure that the audit will be completed in a timely manner. The
audit will include Project Financial Statements, Special Account, PMRs, and assessment of adequacy of
accounting and intemal control systems, in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing. The
terms of reference for the audit will be agreed with the Bank.
Readiness for Implementation
(a)    A financial management system for the project will be developed and a Project Financial
Management Manual updated with a common set of financial policies and procedures for all agencies
implementing various components of the project. An adequate financial management system will enable
easy consolidation of project fmancial statements and provide accurate and timely information on the status
of the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an adequate accounting and fmancial
reporting system will be procured and installed at the PIU for the entire, and that financial management
technical consultants will be engaged to support the operation of the financial management system and
training of project staff.
- 27-



(b)    A fully operational PIU is in place.
(c)    Private independent auditors will be engaged before commencement of project activities to ensure
that the audit will be completed in a timely manner. During negotiations, the MOF, which is responsible
for auditing arrangements, confrmed that a Letter of Invitation has been sent to three short-listed
international audit firms of PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Ernst Young, and KPMG to submit proposals for the
audit. Appointment of independent auditors is a condition of effectiveness.
Risks
Several steps are being taken to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system is established
before the start of the project. This risk is mnitigated by the fact that the MOF, which is administering the
Special Account, has successfully piloted and disbursed using PMR-based disbursement procedures.
Another risk arises from possible delays in recruiting financial staff in the PIU with satisfactory
qualifications and training on financial management. Engagement of financial management technical
support consultants will mitigate such risk.
- 28-






Annex 6: Procurement and D;sbursement Arrangements
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Procurement
Civil works, goods, and services under IBRD-financed components shall be procured in accordance with
the Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultant services shall be procured in accordance
with the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997,
revised September 1997, and January 1999. The procedures outlined in the Guidelines will apply to all
contracts for consulting services financed in whole or in part from the Bank loan or grants or trust funds
implemented by the beneficiary. The World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Requests
for Proposal will be used. A General Procurement Notice for the Project will be published in Development
Business (UNDB, No. 524) on December 16, 1999 and will be renewed annually. A workshop for
launching the project will be held in April 2000.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil works estimated to cost US$1,000,000 equivalent or more and goods estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Since there are not
large or complex works contracts in this project, the qualification method will be postqualification. Small
and scattered works estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$2,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
Contracts for goods, to the extent practicable, shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or more. Goods for the Trade Facilitation Component (computer hardware and
software) up to an aggregate of US$100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines.
The main selection method of consultant services will be Quality and Cost Based Selection. Due to the
nature of the project, the need for individual consultants may arise. In this case individual consultants, up
to an aggregate amount of US$40,000 equivalent, will be selected on the basis of the procedures for
Selection of Individual Consultants established in the Guidelines.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
.~~~~~~~~~~~Fr~rmn .                                                             _ o
ei pe.,ijtue4Caory           -c       -iB                                       ; Total Cost
__________    _____              _         __ ___           .....r -_____
1. Works                        41.80          2.70         0.00          0.00         44.50
(20.50)       (1.35)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (21.85)
2. Goods                         1.00          0.00         0.10          0.00          1.10
(1.00)       (0.00)        (0.10)        (0.00)       (1.10)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00          1.80         1.85          3.65
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
((0.00)         .00)        0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                 0.00          0.00          0.25         0.00          0.25
- 29 -



(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.25)          (0.00)           (0.25)
Total                              42.80            2.70             2.15            1.85           49.50
(21.50)          (1.35)          (2.15)          (0.00)          (25.00)
t Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2Includes goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting services, technical assistance
services.
-30 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consu-t-nt                                 $Ie tl: n    Mbthoct
Services--..EE------
Expenditure     QCBS      QwS   i-8   - .Cw O                                 l    -otat cosit
;Categ'L. = _"''':   ____
A. Firms           1.76      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.85      3.61
(1.76)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.76)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.04       0.00      0.04
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.00)    (0.04)
Total   1.76     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.04      1.85       3.65
(1.76)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.00)    (1.80)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 31 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All contracts procured under ICB will be subject to the Bank's prior review based on the procedures set
forth in Paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines. All contracts for goods procured under Other
Procuremnent Methods will be subject to the Bank's prior review. For work contracts procured under NCB,
only the first two contracts will be subject to Bank's prior review.
Consultants services procured under Quality and Cost Based Selection will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Individual consultants up to an aggregate amount of US$40,000 equivalent may be hired for short
term specialized services. Prior review will not apply to (i) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than US$40,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to the Bank
prior review shall not apply to (ii) the termns of reference for such contracts; (ii) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iii) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to US$75,000 equivalent or above; or (iv) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to US$40,000 equivalent
or above.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                       >1,000                    ICB                    All (41.8)
<1,000 (2,700 aggregate)          NCB           First two Contracts (<1.0)
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                    All (l.0)
<100             International Shopping        All (0. 1)
3. Services                     >100                    QCBS                    All (l.7)
Critical assignments           All                      All
<75 for consulting firms        Other               No (Only TOR)
<40 for individual           Other                No (Only TOR)
consultants
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: About US$44.7 million
equivalent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 32 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IBRD loan of EUR24.8 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) would be disbursed over a
period of 5 years. The expected closing date is December 31, 2005.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expndltur Cat.gpAy            iwit I,..-,. .$$mtllion    .-wV~g PqrF,-;
Civil Works                               21.85                        50%
Goods                                      1.10          100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
Consultants Services                       1.80                        100%
Total Project Costs                       24.75
Front-end fee         0.25
Total                                     25.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOE procedures would be used for contracts for: (i) goods costing less than $ 100,000 equivalent; (ii)
services of consulting firms costing less than US$75,000 equivalent each and services of individual
consultants costing less than US$40,000 equivalent each; and (iii) works contracts valued at less than
US$500,000. The required supporting documentation would be retained by the PIU for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting Bank staff upon request.
SOE procedures will be discontinued once PMR-based disbursements are approved.
Special account:
To expedite disbursements, a Special Account in Euros will be opened in a conmmercial bank acceptable to
the Bank. The amount to be disbursed to the Special Account will be the amount required to finance the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures for the reporting period. Authorized allocation to the Special Account
would be US$1.5 million equivalent. However, during the early stages of the project, the initial allocation
would be limited to US$750,000 equivalent until the aggregate disbursements and sum of all outstanding
special commitments under the Loan have reached the level of US$3.0 rnillion equivalent.
Traditional Disbursement Procedures. Applications for Withdrawal will be used to request the IBRD for
(i) reimbursement for eligible expenditures incurred under the Project; (ii) requests for direct payment to
third parties; or (iii) requests for replenishment for expenditures paid with funds from the Special Account.
Replenishment applications should be submitted on monthly basis and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as appropriate supporting documents. The minimum application size for payments
directly from the Loan Account for issuance of Special Commnitments is 20 percent of the Special Account
authorized allocations.
PMR-based Disbursement Procedures. Once the Bank has approved the Borrower's financial reporting
system for PMR-based disbursements, the Borrower may choose to substitute traditional disbursements
with PMR-based disbursement procedures. The following procedures shall be followed for PMR-based
disbursements: (i) all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special
- 33-



Account based upon eligible Loan categories indicated in Table C above; (ii) applications for withdrawal
form must be supported by PMRs and Special Account bank statements covering the reporting period; and
(iii) the Bank should receive Quarterly PMRs within 45 days from the end of the preceding quarter,
whether or not further advances are required. An action plan has been designed and discussed with the
borrower to establish and maintain a financial management system which will lead to the production of
PMRs by June 30, 2000. The format and timing of submission of the PMRs was agreed at negotiations.
Flow of Funds:
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would be responsible for administration of the Special Account, including
submitting withdrawal applications and replenishment of the account. Working closely with the MOF and
agencies implementing various components of the project, the PIU would prepare supporting project
expenditure documents, including PMRs to accompany withdrawal applications.
Retroactive Financing:
Retroactive financing up to EUR 1 million will be allowed for eligible project-related procurement carried
out after December 10, 1999 and before the Loan signing date, in accordance with World Bank
procurement procedures.
- 34-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
.   . Scedu~                                   Plne                          M  . . M     ,.        .
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                      32
First Bank mission (identification)              09/15/97                      09/15/97
Appraisal mission departure                       10/19/99                      10/19/99
Negotiations                                     12/01/99                       12/10/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/30/2000
Prepared by:
ECSIN
Preparation assistance:
All of the staff listed below.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Cesar Queiroz                      Transport Engineer
Robert Nooter                      Economist
Njeri Muhoho                       Financial Specialist
Gerald Ollivier                    Transport Engineer
Ewa Rodzik                         Operations Analyst
Jesus Renzoli                      Procurement Specialist
Zoe Kolovou                        Counsel
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner           Disbursement Officer
Sven-Ake Blomberg                  Highway Engineer
Anca Dumitrescu                    Projects Officer
Anders Bonde                       Highway Engineer
Marie Laygo                        Team Assistant
- 35-






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP dated December 10, 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 27, 1997
Preparation Mission Back-to-Office Report, February 23, 1999
Pre-appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, July 13, 1999
Appraisal Mission Back-to Office Report, November 8, 1999
Financial Management Assessment Report, November 27, 1999
C. Other
Tallinn-Tartu Road Economic Evaluation, May 1999 by Rodrigo Archando-Callao and Marek Truu
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa Road Renovation Evaluation, September 1999 by Marek Truu
Economist Intelligence Unit: Country Report, Estonia 2nd quarter 1999
Strategic Plan for Trade & Transport Supporting Infrastructure and Services, Action Plan and supporting
reports, Ministry of Transport and Communications of Estonia, 1999
Estonia, Implementing the EU Accession Agenda, World Bank
Development of Transport on the Baltic Sea in the Ports of the Baltic Countries and Russia in 1997 by Ms.
Rita Piirainen Ministry of Transport, Finland
Tallinn-Tartu Road Economic Evaluation - May 1999
Letter from the Minister of Transport and Communications dated November 17, 1999 re: commitment to
road safety
*Including electronic files
- 36-






Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
EE-PE-8403     1996 REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA         AGFRCULTURE                             15.30        0.00        0.00       6.17      4.47       0.00
EE-PE-8402     1995 GOVT OF ESTONIA             HEALTH                                  18.00        0.00        0.00       7.15      8.30       0.65
EE-PE-5406     1995 REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA         HAAPSALUWMATSALU BAY                     2.00        0.00        0.00       0.48      0.18       0.00
Total:      35.30        0.00        0.00      13.80      12.95      0.65
- 37 -






ESTONIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Coznpany                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               Kunda Tsement                  4.80    0.00    4.00    0.00    4.80   -0.00    4.00    0.00
1995197/99         Estonia Leasing                0.00    0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.00
1996               Elcoteq Tallinn                5.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               TOFTAN                         1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99            Eesti Uhispank                 4.21   17.54    0.00    0.00    4.21    5.42    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        15.60   17.54    4.90    0.00   15.60    5.42    4.90    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 38-






Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Europe &    UppeP                                         9/21/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle      _       ___
Estonia      Asia  Income        Development dlamond
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                         1.4       473       588                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    3,390     2,190      4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.9      1,039     2,662
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (X)                                         -1.1        D.t       1.4                    /
Laborf/orce (X)                                        -1.1        0.6       2.0     GNP                               Gross
Labor force I`%)                                              ~~~~~~per    r           '         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1992.98)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     9
Urban population (% of total population)                 74        68        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70        69        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 10        23        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (X of population)                    .         ..       79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                4        11
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    94       100       108               Estoima
Male                                                   95       101                         Upper-middl-income group
Female                                                 93        99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     19S7      1997       199S
Economic ratios*
GDP (USS billions)                                                 4.8       5,2
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                          30.5       31.7      29.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicesfGDP                                 78,1      79.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            s1'8        20.2      19.7
Gross national savings/GDP                                        19.5      21.0
Current account balance/GDP                                      -11.8      -9.2     Do tic                       Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                              0.3       0       D Savings        \ -          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                    13.8      18:6     S
Total debt servicelexports                                         1.4       1.2
Present value o0 debt/GDP                                         13.6
Present value of debtlexports                                     17.1
Indebtedness
1977.87  1668-98     1997       199U   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.7     -3.8     10.6        4.0       5.0               Estonia
GNP per capita                                -3.1      7.9        6.4                         Uooer-middle-income prouP
Exports of goods and services                 10.5     30.4       12.1       7.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997       1998      Growth rates of output and lnvestment t%\
(% of GDP)                                                                           40
Agriculture                                            20.9        7.0       6.3
Industry                                               43.6       27.9      26.7     20
Manufacturing                                         41.6      16.9      15.5      o
Services                                               35.5       65.1      67.0    -20 ru     54    5        a    5*7    98
Private consumption                                    61.6       57.7      57.7    .40
General government consumption                         19.5       22.1      22.6                 GDI           - GDP
Imports of goods and services                                     89.6      89.4 4___
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports(16
(average annual growth)                                                              o
Agriculture                                            -S S        4.9       1.3
Industry                                               -7.8       14.6      -0.5    30
Manufacturing                                          0.4      18.1       2.8    20
Services                                                -0.6       8.0       8.4
Private consumption                                     -1.3       8.7       7.9
General government consumption                          3.2        1.3       7.4
Gross domestic investment                               -6.1      29.D      -4.4             3    94   95   sa   57   iS5
Imports of goods and services                          13.2       29.8      11.1             -     Exports     '  Imports
Gross national product                                 -4.0        7.1       5.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-39-



Estonia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                1.00
Consumer prices                                                       11.2        8.2      750                                       1
Implicit GDP deflator                                                 10.9        9.4      soo
Government finance                                                                         250
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                   o
Current revenue                                                       40.4       38.4               93    94    95    9e    97    98
Current budget balance                                                 7.0        4.2              - GDP deflator  -CP
Overall surplus/deficit                                                2.2       -0.3
TRADE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millins)
Total exports (fob)                                 -                2,284     2,667      s ooo
Food                                                                 375       353
Minerals                                                             167         69     4,000
Manufactures                                                       1,743      2,245     3,000
Total imports (cif)                                                  3,530     3,922      2,000
Food                                              .         ..       582       44552 9                          95    9 07       5
Fuel and energy                                                      297                 1,000
Capital goods                                                      1,204                   o_
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..        123       125
Import price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..         90        88                 E.purtl        *Impnorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           ..       ..        136       142
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987        1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                        3,613     4,170        4
Imports of goods and services                                        4,147     4,715
Resource balance                                                      -534      -546 o
Net income                                                            -146        -81      -4                         _.   _ 
Net current transfers                                                  117       148                                 11
Current account balance                                               -563       -478
12
Financing items (net)                                                  760       489
Changes in net reserves                                               -196        -11     -18
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                                 830       883
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                    ..       ..       13.5       14.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987        1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                   658       970
IBRD                                                                 72         75                             A 75
IDA                                                                    0         0                                   C:37
Total debt service                                                      54        52            G: 30                      D:67
IBRO                                                                   4         9
IDA                                                                    0         o                                         E: 36
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                   .         ..        45
Official creditors                                                    13        13
Private creditors                                                     79         0
Foreign direct investment                        2.                 266 
Portfolio equity                                  -                    1                                           F: 447
World Bank program                                                                         A - IBRO                       E - ailatersI
Commitments                                                            0         0       B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                                        11         6       C - IMP                        G - Short-tamm
Principal repayments                                                   0         3
Netflows                                                              11        3
Interest payments                                                      4         6
Net transfers                                                          7        -3
Development Economics                                                                                                          9/21/99
- 40 -



Assessment      _Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                Satis-        Major                                       Actions             Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory       Weaknesses       Low    Ave.  High            Proposed         Completion Date
(a) Legal Aspects                          X                                            X
(i) Laws &                                      X                                   X
Regulations       _      _                  _
(ii) NCB Procedures                             X             _             X                                 _
(iii) Internal codes                   X               There are not                X            A) ENRA to define      February 1, 2000
and manuals                                        internal codes or                             and document the
manuals at ENRA,                             status, structure
but this is                                  and functions of its
characteristic to all                         Public
government                                   Procurement Unit,
agencies, which                              in accordance with
use the regulations                          the provisions of                              n
of the Law on                                the Law on Public
Public                                       Procurement.
Procurement.                                                                             Z  e
B) ENRA to define    February 1, 2000          --o
and document the
B) PIU to be                                 legal corporate
created                                      status, structure
and functions of
the Project
Implementation                              
Unit in accordance
with Bank
requirements and                           O
provisions of
national
_________________________   _______  _______  _______                          ~~~~ ~~~~~legislation.
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.                      x X      __ _                                                                                  __:s
(i) General handling            _      X                                  .         _                                                  _
(ii) Procurement                       X                Process of                  X            Procurement plan for    October 1999, by
planning                                            continuos planning                        the first year of the  the end of the
not enforced: no                         project and General    project appraisal.
written specific                         Procurement Notice     Then as required
procurement plans                        ready as a prerequisite   at the beginning
for the upcoming                         for Board approval,    of the calendar
year; no yearly                          then yearly update of    year.
update of the                            both documents.
General
Procurement
Notice                                           _



Assessment                                  Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                               Satis-        Major                                     Actions            Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair  factory        Weaknesses.    Low   Ave.  High            Proposed         Comp)letion Date
(iii) Preparation of                                  Insufficient staff to              X    Adequate staffing of    February 1, 2000
documents                                         handle the                               the PIU (see below)
increased volume
of planning,
monitoring,
executing and
reporting
procurement for
the Transport
Project
(iv) Management of                    X               The Head and                       X    Situation to be        February 1, 2000
process                                           Deputy  Head of                          remedied with the
the PIU are not full                    proposed staffing of
time devoted to                         the PIU
PIU management
and have other
important time
demanding
functions in ENRA
(v) Bid evaluation                             X                          X
(vi) Contract award                            X                     _    X
(vii) Preparation and                          X                          X
signing of
contracts             .                              .                    .          _
(viii) Contract                       X               Supervision of                   X      A) Terms of            A) December 1,
management                                        works to be carried                          Reference for         1999
out by in house                             contract
engineers having                            supervision to be
limited experience                          reviewed and
in working with                             approved by the
international                               Bank
contractors                             B) Training on        B) First Mission
international     after Board
contract (Smaller   Approval
and Larger Works)
supervision
to be provided in
coordination with
the Bank
(c) Organization and                      X                                          x
Functions      __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Assessment                                        Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                     Satis-          Major                                           Actions               Proposed
Null    Poor   Fair   factory           Weaknesses        Low    Ave.   High              Proposed           Completion Date
(i) Organization of                         X                 Organization of                X              A) ENRA to hire a         A) February 1,
unit and functions                                       unit and functions                                 full time                 2000
to be defined. Only                               procurement
two experienced                                   specialists. As a
key staffs                                         result the staff of
identified.                                       the PIU will
consist of:
I)  Head
2)  Deputy Head
3)  Procurement
Specialist
4)  Financial
Management
Specialist (Also to
be hired)
B) The Head of the       B) January 1,
PIU to cause to          2000
have:
1)  The status and
funding of the PIU
documented and
approved by
ENRA, and MoT
and MoF, as
needed.
2)  The Terms of
Reference for each
PIU staff reviewed
by the Bank
C) Procurement           C) First mission
training provided        after Board
by Bank's                Approval
procurement
.____________________________________.__________________  ________specialist_______________________________    specilist          __________specialist



Assessment                                   Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                Satis-        Major                                       Actions            Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory        Weaknesses      Low    Ave.  High            Proposed         Completion Date
(ii) Internal manuals           X                       There are not                       X    The Head of the PIU to  March 1, 2000
and instructions                                    internal manuals                          cause the PIU to have
and instructions                         prepared its internal
manuals and
instructions prepared
based on Banks
requirements, local
legislation and the
experience of
implementing the
Estonia Highway
Project
(d) Support and Control                    X
Systems
(i) Auditing                                    X                           X                    To perform an          To be completed
independent           before the mid-
________________________  _________                         ______         ~~~~~~~~~procurement audit  term review
(ii) Legal assistance                  X   I_                                       X
(iii) Technical and                    X                Technical and                      X    To establish the        February 1, 2000
administrative                                      administrative                           technical and
4>,          controls                                             controls have to be                      administrative controls
defined for the                          required by LACI
project and                              implementation
established by the                       according to the
PIU to be created.                       recommendations of
The positive                             the Pre-appraisal
experience of the                        mission
Estonia Highway
Project will be
useful, but in any
case improvement
is needed



Assessment                                 Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                               Satis-        Major                                     Actions            Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair  factory        Weaknesses      Low    Ave.  High          Proposed         Completion Date
(iv) Code of ethics    X                              Not existing                     X       To approve and        March 30, 2000
introduce a code of
ethics for all ENRA
staffs involved in
procurement based
on the Public
Procurement Law,
the Anticorruption
Law and the Public
Service Law.(If
requested the Bank
_______               can assist).
(v) Anticorruption                    X                                           X
initiatives
(e) Record keeping                                 X                          X
(i) Public notices                             X                          X
(ii) Bidding                                   X                          X
documents
(iii) Bid opening                              X                          X
information
(iv) Bid evaluation                            X                          X
reports
(v) Formal appeals                             X                          X
and outcomes                                                                  _
(vi) Signed contract                           X                          X
documents
(vii) Claims and                               X                          X
dispute resolution
records                                                                _
(viii) Comprehensive                  X                                           X
disbursement data
(1) Staffing                       X                      Insufficient staff to       X            Adequate staffing of    February 1, 2000
handle the                              the PIU (see above)
increased volume
of planning,
monitoring,
executing and
reporting
procurement for
the Transport
Project             __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Assessment                                    Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                 Satis-         Major                                        Actions             Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory         Weaknesses       Low    Ave.   High           Proposed         Completion Date
(g) General                                 X                                             X
Procurement
Environment                                              ___________
(i) Promoting a                         X                                             X
culture of
accountability                       .
(ii) Reputation of                      X                                             X
procurement
corps
(iii) Salary structure                  X                                             X
(iv) Freedom from                       X                                             X
political
interference
(v) Existence of                        X                                                     X
experienced and
capable staff                          X :
(vi) Clear written              X                                                             X
standards and
delegation of
authority
4:,       (vii) Sound                              X                                                     X
budget/financial
systems
(h) Private Sector                          X                                                     X
Assessment
(i) General                             X                                                     X
efficiency and
predictability                                           .
(ii) Transparency                       X                                                     X
(iii) Quality of                        X                                                     X
contract mgmt.                                                            _        _.                                   _
(iv) General                            X                                                     X
reputation



Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                                  Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$ I00,000 (equivalent)                                                                        High   X
Works US$1.000.000 (equivalent)                                                                    Average   [
Consulting US$75.000 for firms and US$40.000 for individuals (equivalent)                             Low
Post Review Ratio: One in  4   contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 5    months (includes  Form prepared by: Jesus Renzoli/Cesar Oueiroz
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)                                (Procurement Specialist/Accredited staff assigned
to the project)
Signature:             /
Date:     11/29/1999
Comments:
Since the CPAR performed in Estonia in 1994 the country has notably improved its legislation related to procurement and anticorruption. The approval of
the Law on Public Procurement and the creation of the Public Procurement Office, in both cases with the assistance of the World Bank, and the approval of
the Anticorruption Law and the Public Service Law were the most relevant milestones in this process.
Procurement structures are in an incipient stage in the governmental agencies. ENRA's procurement experience benefited from the implementation of the
Estonia Highway Project under procurement procedures of the World Bank, a project with an overall satisfactory rating. However the implementation of
that project was carried out mainly by two ENRA's staffs on a ad-hoc basis, without leaving the entity with a proper procurement infrastructure.
The positive trend in the procurement activity of ENRA will be maintained and improved with the proposed composition of the PIU and the measures
proposed above for solving the procurement weaknesses found, including close supervision.
However, because of the lack of experience of all staff (new staff to be hired) the risk assessment is categorized as "High". Subject to satisfactory
performance for about two years the overall risk may be lowered to "Average".



:



Annex 12: Procurement Action Plan
ESTONIA: TRANSPORT PROJECT
As part of the Pre-appraisal mission an Assessment of ENRA's Capacity to Implement Procurement
was carried out. Subject to Bank's management approval, the risk related to ENRA's procurement
capacity was assessed as "High" The following Procurement Action Plan to be implemented by ENRA
as part of the Project to address detected deficiencies is recommended:
ACTIVITY                                     DUE DATE
ENRA to define and document the legal corporate status, structure and    March 1, 2000
functions of its Public Procurement Unit, in accordance with the
provisions of the Law on Public Procurement.
ENRA to define and document the legal corporate status, structure and    March 1, 2000
functions of the Project Implementation Unit in accordance with Bank
requirements and provisions of national legislation.
A. ENRA to hire a full time procurement specialist. As a result the   A) February 1, 2000
staff of the PIU will consist of:
1 ) Head
2) Procurement Specialist
3) Financial Management Specialist (Also to be hired)           B) January 1, 2000
B. The Head of the PIU will:
I ) Have the status and funding of the PIU documented and approved by
ENRA, MOTC, and MOF.
2) Have the Terms of Reference for each PIU staff reviewed by the
Bank                                                        C) First mission after Board
C. Procurement training provided by Bank's procurement             Approval
specialist to the PIU and ENRA's procurement unit.
Procurement plan for the project and the General Procurement Notice  October 1999, by the end of
ready as a prerequisite for Board approval, then yearly update of both    the project appraisal. Then as
documents.                                                      required at the beginning of
the calendar year.
The Head of the PIU to cause the PIU to have prepared its internal  March 1, 2000
instructions based on Banks requirements, local legislation and the
experience of implementing the Estonia Highway Project
Training on international contract (Smaller and Larger Works)   First mission after board
administration and supervision to be provided in coordination with the    approval
Bank by supervision consultant to the PIU and ENRA's procurement
unit.
Approve and introduce a code of ethics for all ENRA staff involved   March 30, 2000
in procurement based on the Public Procurement Law, the
Anticorruption Law and the Public Service Law. (If requested, the
Bank can assist.)
To perform an independent procurement audit                    January 2003, before the mid-
term review
- 48 -



1             2          3            .4           5         . . .           6. Estimated Dates
Description      Type     Number of   Estimated cost  Procurement  Pre-qual/SL   (BD/RFP)  Bid     Contract  Contract
slices/items/  (Expressed in    Method    t. Invitation  1. Preparation  1. Invitation    Signing  Completion
subpackages   US$S000)               GPNISPN/Local          GPNISPN/Local
2. Opening             2. Opening
3. Eval &           3. Eval & Recom
Recom.                 4. Award
ROAD REHABILITATION COMPONENT
D&S-km 40.3-238.8                                                                         GPN 10/29/99
(Design and                                                                               EOI 10/29/99
Supervision for the                                                                       2. 03/10/00
whole Road                                                                                3. 03/30/00
m
Rehabilitation         CS    None              1,500.00   QCBS                .  2/10/00  4. 04/30/00     5/8/00     5/8/03 cn
G 2
GPN 10/29/99                      0
SPN 10/29/99                        >
2. 04/17/00
RR-km 40.3-50.2                                                                           3. 04/28/00
(Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None              1,744.60    ICB                   2/20/00  4. 05/15/00    5/25/00    7/30/01  Z 9
ko                                                                                             GPN 10/29/99                      O 
SPN 10/29/99                      0
2. 04/17/00                
RR-km 231.9-238.8                                                                         3. 04/28/00
(Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None                957.31    ICB                   2/20/00  4. 05/15/00    5/25/00    7/30/01  c-
..__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            m
GPN 10/29/99                      0
SPN 10/15/00
2. 12/15/00
RR-I-km 57.6-80.2                                                                         3. 12/30/00
(Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None              2,555.32    ICB             67.5  9/30/00  4. 01/15/01    1/30/01    7/30/02
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 10/15/00
2. 12/15/00
RR-II-km 250.4-288.7                                                                      3. 12/30/00
(Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None              6,300.00    ICB                   9/30/00  4. 01/15/01    1/30/01    7/30/02
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 10/15/00
2. 12/15/00
Tartu Ring                                                                                3. 12/30/00
(Road Reconstruction)    CW    None            7,300.00    ICB                   9/30/00  4. 01/15/01    1/30/01    7/30/03



Description      Type     Number of   Estimated cost  Procurement  Pre-qual/SL   (BD/RFP)  Bid      Contract  contract
slicesiitemsl  (Expressed in  Method    1. Invitation  1. Preparation  1. Invitation    Signing  Completion
subpackages    usSo00)               GPN/SPN/Local           GPN/SPN/Local
2. Opening              2. Opening
3. Eval &            3. Eval & Recom
Recom.                 4. Award
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 10/15/01
2. 12/15/01
RR-I11-km 90-125.5                                                                         3. 12/30/01
(Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None               4,300.00    ICB                   9/30/01  4. 01/15/02     1/30/02    7/30/04
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 10/15/00
2. 12/15/01
RR-IV-kml28.1-183                                                                          3. 12/30/01
(Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None               9,300.00    ICB                   9/30/01  4. 01/15/02     1/30/02    7/30/04
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 10/15/02
2. 12/15/02
RR-V-km 194-221.7                                                                          3. 12/30/02
o   (Road Rehabilitation)  CW    None               3,842.77    ICB                   9/30/02  4. 01/15/03     1/30/03    7/30/05
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 10/15/02
2. 12/15/02
Tartu Intersection                                                                         3. 12/30/02
(Construction)         CW    None               5,500.00    ICB                   9/30/02  4. 01/15/03     1/30/03    7/30/05
Sub-Total                                      43,300.00oo
ROAD SAFETY COMPONENT
GPN 10/29/99
EOI 9/1/00
2. 10/15/00
3. 10/30/00
RS-TA- 2000-2005     CS    None                260.00   QCBS                     8/1/00   4. 11/15/00   11/30/00  8/30/03
Small consultants
asignments as the need
for specialized services                                  Individual
arises          CS    None                 40.00 Consultants



Description      Type     Number of   Estimated cost  Procurement  Pre-qual/SL   (BDIRFP)  Bid      Contract  Contract
slices/ltems/  (Expressed in  Method    1. Invitation  1. Preparation  1. Invitation    Signing  Completion
subpackages   US$O000)               GPN/SPN/Local           GPN/SPN/Local
2. Opening             2. Opening
3. Eval &            3. Eval & Recom
Recom.                 4. Award
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 9/15/00
RS-W-2001                                                                                  2. 11/15/00
(Elimination of Black                                                                      3. 11/30/00
Spots)                 CW    None                675.00    NCB           675000  8/30/00  4. 12/15/00     12/30/00    8/30/01
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 9/15/01
RS-W-2002                                                                                  2. 11/15/01
(Elimination of Black                                                                      3. 11/30/01
Spots)                 CW    None                675.00    NCB                    8/30/01  4. 12/15/01    12/30/01    8/30/02
GPN 10/29/99
SPN 9/15/02
RS-W-2003                                                                                  2. 11/15/02
(Elimination of Black                                                                      3. 11/30/02
L   Spots)                 CW    None                 675.00    NCB                    8/30/02  4. 12/15/02   12/30/02    8/30/03
GPN 10/29/03
SPN 10/15/03
RS-W-2004                                                                                  2. 11/15/03
(Elimination of Black                                                                      3. 11/30/03
Spots)                 CW    None                675.00    NCB                    8/30/03  4. 12/15/03    12/30/03    8/30/04
RS-G-2000                                                                                  GPN 10/29/99
(Procurement of road                                                                       SPN 6/15/00
side delineators,                                                                          2. 8/15/00
changeable traffic                                                                         3. 8/30/00
signs)                  G    None                900.00    ICB                    5/30/00  4. 9/15/00      9/30/00   12/30/00
GPN 10/29/99
RS-G-2000-CAM                                                                              SPN 6/15/00
(Procurement of                                                                            2. 8/15/00
automatic speed control                                                                    3. 8/30/00
cameras)                G    None                 100.00    ICB                   5/30/00  4. 9/15/00      9/30/00   12/30/00
Sub-Total                                       4,000.00 _                                  __I_ __                   __



Description       Type      Number of   Estimated cost  Procurement   Pre-qual/SL    (BD/RFP)      Bid       Contract   Contract
slices/items/   (Expressed In  Method    1. Invitation  1. Preparation   1. Invitation    Signing  Completion
subpackages     US$'000)                GPN/SPN/Local             GPNISPNlLocal
. I  I      2. Opening                2. Opening
3. Eval &              3. Eval & Recom
Recom.                   4. Award
EDI COMPONENT
GPN 10/29/99
ITQ 10/15/00
2. Quotations
received by
10/30/00
EDI-IT-SW                                                                                          3. Quotations
(Procurement and                                                                                   compared by
installation of hardware                                                                           11/5/00
and software needed                                                                                4.Contract
for a pilot Intemet-                                                                     Specs.  Award by
based EDI system)         G     None                  100.00      IS                     9/30/00   11/15/00        11/20/00   12/15/00
100.00
47,400.00
NBF                 1,850.00
Front-end fee        250.00                                                              ___   _
Gl



II,



~P-~'      FINLAND
SWE ~N         ,/G         r !                               E STO  N I A
-.iinn -'                     TRANSPORT  PROJECT                                                 PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS               PORTS
TRANSPORT PROJECT                             -~~~~~~MAIN ROADS           ~AIRPORTS
EITONIA               MAIN                      AND  PROJECT  ROADS                       -        RAILROADS                        o  TOWNS AND VILLAGES
'    S FEDN                                                                       ___   COUNTY BOUNDARIES                   e  COUNTY SEATS
~~- -~~   N  FED. ~0       20       40       60       80       1 00 KILOMETERS
I>Js  Isa                                                                                 - - 0   20  40  60   80  100 KILOMETERS   ---  INTERNATIONAL    NATIONAL CAPITAL
I      I .  f  |  |  |  |    7      {                              BOUNDARIES
LATVIA                    0      10     20      30     40     50      60MILES
"' -J ''~'                              24n 2'6 .
LITHUANIA                                                                                        2Vo:
NaissaarQ J'   0
/ RUSSIANO
BE LA RUS Soru                                                                                                   o
POLAND                          |                      ldi          TL 3                                     ,
220                      /X}            +   <   ;t k  Ha J U                           +                                  )             ff5XD  J (g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kero    r
2'2
Baltic  Sea                                                                                                     LAANE-
590 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  Vormni ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~5
-59            ---  '              '% \' '^ i$n', -A                               ;               X       VXM A A  %0                  k             -    -                59pla
|  -.  aHllaJMAAp \   sa1-\   FP   A                                        M       A >                  wX,P$lu   KA
H H> SUA A R E  M S AA5XX       01               +      t        i       Viliandl D         <, A                               Lake
Kuressoare<r    ? , la   - 
Q:~~~~~~~~~ti mopd o ml,o h ato    uham
SA RE A                                                anVelilwaS         il.an i                                  rt                          FED.A- << 
-Abruka                           in
Gulf ;2
Ruhnu
Many Dendirsement or TepWrltance.o
22                                  240            suc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 ~    ~~he boundaries,ooseomntos T  26ga  To  280kov
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adayte nooinsono



