                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 30868

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (TF-25247 FSLT-70080)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

           IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 24.8 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA

                                       FOR A

                                TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                   August 31, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                    Currency Unit = EURO (EUR)
                           EUR 1 = US$ 1.3607
                           US$ 1 = EUR 0.7349

                         EEK 1     =   0.06390 EUR
                          EUR 1    =   15.6500 EEK

       Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, October 30, 1999
                            EUR 1 =    US$1.0607
                             US$1 =    EUR 0.94277

                          FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 -     December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
EDI           -      Electronic Data Interchange
EDIT          -      Estonian Infrastructure and Transit Developent Foundation
EIB           -      European Investment Bank
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP           -      Environmental Management Plan
ENRA          -      Estonian National Road Administration
EU            -      European Union
HDM           -      Highway Development and Management (software)
IBRD          -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
MOTC          -      Ministry of Transport and Communications
NIB           -      Nordic Investment Bank
NPV           -      Net Present Value
PAD           -      Project Appraisal Document
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
PMR           -      Project Management Report
PMS           -      Pavement Management System
QAG           -      Quality Assurance Group
RD            -      Road Districts
TOR           -      Terms of Reference




                   Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                Country Director:     Daniela Gressani, ECCU7
                 Sector Manager:      Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Cesar Queiroz, ECSIE

                                           ESTONIA
                                  TRANSPORT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 24
Annex 9. Map of Rehabilitated Sections                                           26

Project ID: P035775                                                  Project Name: TRANSPORT PROJECT
Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz                                           TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TRANSPORT PROJECT                                        L/C/TF Number: TF-25247; FSLT-70080
   Country/Department: ESTONIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (95%); General public administration sector
                            (5%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/06/1999                                     Effective: 09/06/2000                10/26/2000
     Appraisal: 10/18/1999                                         MTR: 09/09/2002
      Approval: 03/16/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND
                                           COMMUNICATIONS; MINISTRY OF FINANCE/ESTONIAN NATIONAL
                                           ROAD ADMINISTRATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director:                Peter Thompson                                 Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Cesar Queiroz                                  Cesar Queiroz
ICR Primary Author:             Janardan P. Singh


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to:

     (i) reduce transport costs between Estonia's two largest cities and the Latvian and Russian borders;

     (ii) improve Estonia's road safety performance;

     (iii) strengthen Estonia's road administration; and

     (iv) improve the competitiveness of Estonia's trade supporting infrastructure and services.

The overall intent was to contribute to Estonia's private sector development, through the establishment of a
better road connection between Estonia's two largest cities, thereby also enhancing Estonia's regional
position in international production networks, and making it more competitive as a transit point for the
region.

The project was consistent with the key objective of the World Bank's 1994 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) that sought to alleviate the pockets of poverty that had developed during the transition process and
to raise overall living standards through: (i) sustaining the resumption of economic growth to alleviate the
sharp decline in average incomes that occurred following independence; and (ii) helping the Government
design and implement policies, programs, and projects to improve the living standards of those left behind
in the transition process. The economy's engine of growth was expected to be the private sector supported
by adequate and efficient infrastructure and a strengthened administrative and legal framework. While this
was the last formal CAS for Estonia, the emphasis of the World Bank's strategy shifted to general support
for national development with the private sector as the primary engine for growth. The project was intended
to contribute directly to this strategy by improving the adequacy and efficiency of the country's transport
infrastructure and services. The aim was to lower transport costs and reduce delivery times, thus
encouraging investment, job creation and rising incomes, and the development of value-added activities
engendered by increased transit traffic. These objectives were met.

The Estonian National Road Administration (ENRA) operates under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MOTC) and is responsible for about 15,000 km of road network in
Estonia. An assessment of ENRA's capacity to carry out procurement functions was conducted in October
1999. The assessment noted ENRA's prior experience under                 the World Bank-financed Highway
Maintenance Project, which was approved in 1993 and completed in 1997. It was rated "highly
satisfactory" in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). This project helped make ENRA more
efficient and technically advanced, having had to deal with complex procurement issues. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) consisting of two staff members was established.

For the Estonia Transport Project, the World Bank's preparation mission again suggested the creation of a
PIU with four staff, including a procurement specialist. The PIU was fully operational and adequately
staffed during the project. In addition to core project staff in the PIU, four ENRA staff, including the chief
accountant from the finance division, one each from information technology, supervision and road
management divisions assisted the PIU. Financial management was satisfactory. ENRA provided timely
and professional Project Management Reports (PMRs). Procurement actions were carried out satisfactorily
and according to schedule.




                                                     - 2 -

The MOTC and the Estonian Infrastructure and Transit Development Foundation (EDIT), an
inter-ministerial body that includes participation of and interaction with the private trade and transport
sector, successfully implemented the trade facilitation component.

The quality of the design was appropriate for the country, and preparation took into account the World
Bank's policies. Risks were appropriately assessed in the project design. The final results are consistent
with those expected at project's inception.

The development objectives that were set at the time of appraisal, e.g. increase in the efficiency and
improvement of road safety, strengthening road administration, and improvement of the competitiveness of
trade supporting infrastructure services, were realistic to the project, attainable and measurable. The
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Quality at Entry Review assessed the project as well focused on its
development objectives, and consistent with the CAS.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Portions of Key Roads (EURO 40.9 million, US$43.3
million equivalent). This component was to include the rehabilitation of priority sections of the
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road totaling 190 km. The road has a total length of 288.7 km and travels
diagonally across Estonia territory connecting the capital of Estonia (Tallinn) with the second largest city in
population (Tartu) and the border with Latvia and Russia. World Bank support included the financing of
design and supervision. The subcomponents included in the project were as follows:

a) Rehabilitation of priority sections of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road at a total estimated cost of
EURO 28.3 million (US$30 million equivalent)

     Kose-Mao Section - rehabilitation of 24.4 km of the 48 km Kose-Mao road section which involved
    renovation consisting of stabilizing the sub-base, putting down new asphalt concrete road surface, and
    associated shoulders, drainage and road markings, at an estimated cost of EURO 4.2 million (US$4.5
    million equivalent).

     Mao Tartu Section - rehabilitation of 93 km of the Mao-Tartu section involving stabilizing the
    sub-base, new asphalt concrete road surface and other improvements noted above at an estimated cost
    of EURO 13.1 million (US$13.9 million equivalent).

     Tartu-Luhamaa Section - rehabilitation as noted above of 72.9 km of the Tartu-Luhamaa road at
    an estimated cost of EURO 10.9 million (US$11.6 million equivalent).

b) Widening of the Tartu Ring Road and Interchange at an estimated cost of EURO 12.6 million
(US$13.3 million equivalent)

     The Tartu Ring Road - the Interchange was to be widened at an estimated cost of EURO 7.07
    (US$7.5 million equivalent), involving the construction of two additional lanes and renovation of the
    existing two lanes on a 5 km section.



                                                     - 3 -

     Construction of the Torvandi grade separated interchange at an estimated cost of EURO 5.5
(US$5.8 million equivalent).

Of the total cost of EURO 40.9 million (US$43.3 million equivalent) for this component, the World Bank's
share was EURO 20.7 million (US$22 million equivalent).

Component 2: Improvement in Road Safety (EURO 4.1 million, US$4.35 million equivalent). This
component sought to address the serious and increasing problem of road accidents in Estonia. Compared to
neighboring Scandinavian countries, the rate of fatalities/10,000 vehicles at the time of project appraisal
was approximately 2.5 times higher, and the rate of fatalities/million vehicular kilometers was five to six
times higher. Coupled with the growth in vehicle ownership in Estonia, which was, at the time of appraisal,
one of the highest in Europe, the scale of the problem was anticipated to increase. In response, the project
included the construction of civil works to eliminate accident black spots; installation of long life road
markings for new asphalt pavements, road side delineators, changeable traffic signs and automatic speed
control cameras, creation of campaign materials for a road safety educational campaign, technical
assistance to coach the traffic police, training courses in road safety strategy and specifically four regional
training sessions in accident risk analysis and definition of accident remedial; and software and training to
allow the analysis of the accident database in ENRA to identify the impact of remedial actions at the
network level. Of the total cost of EURO 4.1 million (US$4.35 million equivalent) for this component, the
World Bank's share was EURO 2.5 million (US$2.65 million equivalent).

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening, Training, Office and Laboratory Equipment (EURO 1.4
million, US$1.5 million equivalent). This component would provide continued assistance to the Estonian
National Road Administration to strengthen its operational capacity, including assistance for continuing the
work on routine maintenance by contract, improvement of the Pavement Management System (PMS),
assistance in improving financial management and budgeting, and additional support for the ENRA
personnel in road design and supervision for improvements in the main road network, including Via Baltica
and the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road. It would also include some additional office and laboratory
equipment. Since the Government's preference was not to use loan funds for technical assistance, the
financial support for this component was expected to be provided by bilateral agencies, including the
European Union (EU) and Finland. The environmental provisions of the project included executing an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), implementing a Land Acquisition Plan, and establishing an
Environmental Unit in ENRA whose duties would include coordination of environmental and
socio-community studies and environmental oversight of project implementation. The World Bank's loan
did not cover any of the EURO 1.4 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) cost for this component. The
Environmental Unit was established and has been effective in monitoring environmental aspects of road
works, including those locally financed. A review carried out by the World Bank Environmental Unit
concluded that the project reflects best practice.

Component 4: Trade Facilitation (EURO 0.09 million, US$0.1 million equivalent). This component, to
be carried out by EDIT, included measures aimed at developing an environment with:

     (i) laws and regulations to ensure the development of trade supporting services and infrastructure on
     an equal and fair basis, taking into account the EU accession process;

     (ii) support for creation of an efficient public and private partnership based on combined resources,
     close and objective cooperation and the perception of a common goal;



                                                     - 4 -

     (iii) access to capital for the Estonian economy on equal terms and conditions as competitors;

     (iv) provision of quality education, training and research on trade supporting services; and

     (v) improved access to markets. Support from project financing would be limited to obtaining and
     installing the hardware and software and technical support required to implement a pilot
     Internet-based Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) electronic system for providing one-stop border
     clearances in Estonia. The system would be compatible with EU standards and allow for a direct
     transfer of electronic data related to shipments at border crossings of Estonia's main EU partners.

The World Bank loan included funding for this component. However, because private funds became
available, World Bank funding was not utilized.

The total project cost of EURO 46.6 million (US$49.5 million equivalent) was financed as follows: EURO
21.35 million (US$22.65 million equivalent) from the Estonian Government, EURO 1.55 million (US$1.65
million equivalent) from the European Union, EURO 0.18 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) from the
Government of Finland, and EURO 24.8 million (US$25 million equivalent) from the World Bank.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was selected for a Quality at Entry Assessment by the World Bank's Quality Assurance Group
(QAG), and a QAG review panel met on the March 20, 2001. The finding of the review panel was that the
overall quality at entry was satisfactory. The individual reviewers agreed that, overall, the project was well
prepared, with the concepts, objectives and approach well articulated and the development outcomes were
regarded as achievable and progressive in terms of the social, political and economic development of the
country. The World Bank processes and inputs were also judged to be satisfactory. The panel also noted
that it was highly likely that the project would achieve its key development objective of infrastructure
development.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. Project implementation proceeded well and the actual
project schedule was close to appraisal projections. All major infrastructure components, e.g. road
rehabilitation contracts, as well as the delivery of goods and technical assistance components for road
safety and trade facilitation, were completed on schedule by mid-2005.

Following the Government's decision to cancel a part of the loan (and loans from other agencies because of
a budgetary surplus) in November 2003, ENRA completed the project with budget funds. The cancellation
of the outstanding balance had no impact on the achievement of the objectives of the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Portions of Roads. Road rehabilitation contracts No. 1
and 2 (pilot contracts) were completed in 2000, and contracts No. 3 and 4 were completed in 2001.
Contracts No. 5 and 6 were substantially implemented in 2002 and finalized in May 2003 because of the
severe weather in September 2002. Contract No. 7 was completed in 2003 (and taken over by ENRA on
November 2003). More specifically, in 2000-2001 66 km of the Tallinn-Tartu-Voru-Luhamaa road were


                                                     - 5 -

rehabilitated. In 2002, 57 km of road section were rehabilitated, with a further 55 km in 2003. The 2004
works program included rehabilitation and safety improvements of the following road sections:
Laeva-Karevere, Karevere-Kandkula, Tartu-Tiksoja, access to Karevere overpass overlay, Ussisoo,
Aruvalla-Kose. Road safety improvements were implemented at two intersections (Ardu and Aardla) with
lighting installed at Adavere village crossing.

The ENRA wished to make an early start on rehabilitating the first section of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa
road, totalling some 13.8 km between Aruvalla and Kose, and a decision was taken to proceed with the
works on this section without any World Bank contribution. The procurement process was undertaken in a
manner consistent with World Bank procedures. Subsequently, World Bank loan funds that would have
been allocated to this section, were utilised as part of the co-financing for the second and third year
programs, where additional sections of the same Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road were rehabilitated in the
same manner. Three additional sections, between Uhti and Savarna (27.7 km), Kanepi and the County
Border (6.9 km), and Voru and Luhamaa (38.3 km) were added to the project in subsequent years. The
total length of roads rehabilitated under the project was 240 km, compared to an originally planned figure
of 190 km at appraisal.

The achievement of this component was highly satisfactory.

Component 2: Actions Undertaken to Improve Road Safety. The project undertook road safety
measures such as the installation of hundreds of meters of new guard rails, cats-eyes, marker posts, new
traffic signs, and road painting with long lasting thermoplastic. Road safety work in 2001, for example,
included eliminating traffic black spots and procuring automatic traffic monitoring cameras. Intersection
improvements, namely lighting and road barriers, were undertaken at Maardu. In Rapla county, road
realignment, intersection improvements, and footpath and cycle path construction were undertaken and
reflector poles were installed along sections of the main road network.

Efforts to improve road safety were heightened with an initiative entitled "Plan 100" aimed at reducing
road fatalities to 100 per year. This initiative was presented in the Parliament in 2003, but as it was
regarded as an ENRA Strategy Document, it did not require Parliamentary approval. The project
components for traffic safety included the remediation of a number of accident 'black spots', which had
been identified in an earlier study undertaken by the Road Department of Tallinn Technical University.
This study analyzed dangerous locations, in terms of the frequency of different categories of accident
(accident black spots) on the public highway network in Estonia, and provided a foundation to identify
priorities, the identification of risk factors, and appropriate countermeasures in terms of remedial actions.
The selected locations, which were identified as priorities, informed the safety components financed by the
loan. The installation of the accident analysis software will also help in the identification and prioritization
of those target areas requiring countermeasures. In addition, the technical assistance component for traffic
safety campaigns included the hiring of a consultant for ENRA to advise on successful road safety
measures in other countries, such as Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands, or Vision Zero in Sweden;
together with technical assistance for coaching/training Traffic Police; and regional training for traffic
safety professionals including the exchange of road safety experiences with other organizations.

According to the ENRA database, total fatalities increased from 199 in 2001 to 223 in 2002, or 12 percent.
The increase in the number of fatalities was due in part to inexperienced young drivers. But from 2002 to
2003, fatalities caused by drunk drivers decreased by 55 percent. Road safety financing from the ENRA
budget was more or less stable during project implementation and totaled EEK 8.5 million in 2000; EEK
10.0 million in 2001; EEK 9.5 million in 2002; EEK 10.5 million in 2003; and EEK 12.7 million in 2004.
However, in 2005 a special program on Black Spot Remediation was introduced, as a direct result of the


                                                      - 6 -

work undertaken in the project, with an allocation of EEK 63 million.

The achievement of this component was satisfactory.

Component 3: Strengthen Road Transport Administration. Progress has been made in financial
management, procurement, environment, training and maintenance by contract. ENRA's Traffic
Information Center provides weather and road condition information and performs effectively and
efficiently. Also, Estonia is advanced in privatizing its maintenance operations which helps to stabilize the
recurrent expenditure needs of the road network through the transfer some of the risk and responsibilities to
the private sector. Specific reforms include the adoption of performance based contract maintenance for
highways. In April 2000 ENRA had its first privatized road and bridge maintenance contract that covered
1,200 km network in southern Estonia. By early 2002, Estonia had three competitively tendered output
based road maintenance contracts. The MOTC decided, early in the implementation of the Transport
Project, to gradually replace all in-house (own force) routine maintenance with long-term contracted out
maintenance in all 15 road maintenance regions. As of January 1, 2003, the 15 Road Districts (RD) (one
per county) were consolidated into seven RDs. In April 2003, the RDs were reduced to six. Currently, 58
percent of the national roads (in terms of kilometers) have routine maintenance contracted out.
Performance, or output-based contracts are used, whereby contractors receive full monthly payments if all
requirements are met. If not, ENRA has clear criteria to judge performance, e.g. by May 15 every year all
cracks are sealed, and failure to meet these criteria on the part of any contractor will result in a defined
deduction in the monthly payment. In addition, ENRA, in conjunction with Tallinn Technical University,
established a laboratory for photogrammetry in the University's Road Institute from the Transport Project
local cost component.

With respect to environmental issues, ENRA implemented an EMP, to ensure compliance with Estonian
and World Bank environmental requirements. All road works contracts included provisions of the EMP.
ENRA proposed improved technical specifications regarding compliance with the EMP which were
incorporated into the bidding documents. These provisions included a contractor's obligation to submit a
specific EMP for the contract 14 days prior to the beginning of the works. For locally financed projects,
ENRA adopts an Environmental Memorandum, according to Estonian legislation. The EMP is
comprehensive and appropriate. ENRA also has strengthened its in-house environmental capability by
establishing an environmental unit within ENRA. An environmental specialist has been recruited to
coordinate environmental issues related to ENRA's activities such as inspecting construction sites and
preparing reports in compliance with the EMP.

The achievement of this component was satisfactory.

Component 4: Trade Facilitation. This component was coordinated directly by MOTC, and ENRA
participated as needed upon request in procurement and accounting functions. Given the progress in the
EDI component in securing funds from the private sector for EDI implementation, loan funds did not need
to be used for this purpose.

As part of project preparation, a Transport and Trade Facilitation study carried out in 1998-1999 produced
a Strategic Plan and an Action Plan that were disseminated in April 1999. In May 1999, the MOTC
established the EDIT, to be financed partly under the MOTC budget and partly by the private sector.
Under the Vektor brand name, the EDIT aimed to promote Estonia as a transit hub not only for oil but for
unitized cargo flows as well.

A special area of interest for Vektor is to develop and offer EDI-based solutions for Estonian trade and


                                                    - 7 -

transport. Vektor is developing an EDI policy for transport and foreign trade. A new company,
EDI-Vektor, Ltd., has been incorporated as an EDIT subsidiary with the specific mandate to carry on
developing an EDI platform to supply EDI services to the transport and trade community. EDI-Vektor will
market EDI services on a commercial basis and maintain and further develop the EDI platform as may be
required. The budget for this work was financed by a Government subsidy to EDI-Vektor. Going forward,
there will be no need for MOTC to invest further in EDI as the private sector has invested and made
considerable progress in data interchange.

The achievement of this component was satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The original economic analysis is described in Annex 4 of the Transport Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). The only component that was subject to economic appraisal was component 1 - the rehabilitation
and upgrading of 190 km of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road. This component accounted for 87 percent of
total project costs, US$37.7 million equivalent excluding contingencies. The analysis was based on the
standard approach for the economic appraisal of highway investments, involving the definition of a
'do-nothing' scenario, without any intervention, and one or more, 'do-something' scenarios, involving the
different interventions being tested.

The results of the economic appraisal, presented in terms of the Net Present Value (NPV) and the
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for each of the eight road segments that were identified for
inclusion in the project at appraisal and specified in the PAD, is provided in Annex 3. The PAD also
reported the total NPV of all eight road segments at EURO 31 million (US$33 million equivalent), and an
aggregate EIRR of 32.3 percent.

After completion of the project, the economic analysis of the completed road segments was redone, using
the actual capital costs, averaged per kilometer, from the actual contract prices, together with actual traffic
data (collected as input to the Pavement Management System in autumn 2004). The results of this exercise,
which are detailed in Annex 3, indicate a total NPV of US$32.1 million and an aggregate EIRR of 37.8
percent. Generally, the revised economic analysis indicates that five out of the original eight sections
performed better, in terms of their NPV and EIRR, in the revised economic evaluation, than at appraisal.
Two sections performed slightly worse, primarily due to lower growth in road traffic volumes on those
sections.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The impact of the project on the financial position of ENRA was not estimated, as there were no
hypothecated road user fees, or direct revenues, which would allow the calculation of a meaningful internal
rate of return.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is considered to be substantial, with three of the four
components involving technical assistance, training or the provision of goods or equipment, aimed at
strengthening the institutions in the road sector in Estonia. The introduction of output based contracting
was a particularly beneficial element, as noted by the Review Panel at Quality at Entry, with significant
potential spillover effects outside the project, both within the country, and within the region.




                                                      - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of the government or the implementing agency which
affected implementation or outcome.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In November 2003, the MOF requested to cancel IBRD, EIB and NIB undisbursed loan amounts because
of the country's significant budgetary surplus in 2003, with an even higher budget surplus projected for
2004. The amount of the loan that was cancelled was EURO 8,893,531.08 (US$12.1 million equivalent).
In addition, in March 2004, the World Bank canceled EURO 2,064.06 (US$2,808.6 equivalent) that was
refunded from the Special Account. Following the partial loan cancellation, ENRA completed the project
with its own funds. Despite the cancellation of the outstanding balance, the objectives of the project were
achieved.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ENRA wished to make an early start on the rehabilitation of the first section of the
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road, totalling some 13.8 km between Aruvalla and Kose, and a decision was taken
to proceed with the works on this section without any World Bank contribution. The procurement process
was undertaken in a manner consistent with World Bank procedures. Subsequently, World Bank loan
funds that would have been allocated to this section, were utilised as part of the co-financing for the second
and third year programs, where additional sections of the same Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road were
rehabilitated in the same manner. Three additional sections, between Uhti and Savarna (27.7 km), Kanepi
and the County Border (6.9 km), and Voru and Luhamaa (38.3 km) were added to the project in subsequent
years. The total length of roads rehabilitated under the project was 240 km, compared to an originally
planned figure of 190 km at appraisal. The increase reflected the fact that the contribution from the
Government exceeded that envisaged at appraisal. There were no other factors under the control of the
implementing agency that affected the implementation or outcome of the project.

It took some time, initially, to build momentum for the road safety component, reflecting the challenges
associated with implementing interventions in this area and seeing results within a short time frame. Also,
after some delay, an in-house Environmental Unit was established in ENRA to oversee preparation of
Environmental Assessments and EMPs. The process of compliance with the environmental aspects of the
project also took time. Specifically, the required public disclosure process occurred after the loan became
effective, and after the final designs were completed for the two pilot project contracts. As a result, the
public was not able to raise issues that may have been incorporated into the design of the pilot contracts.
This was regarded as unfortunate, and processes were put in place to ensure that at contract renewal, wider
stakeholder opinion would be considered in the design of subsequent contracts.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were some variations in the cost of some of the project components, primarily in the civil works
contracts in later years of the project. However, the actual increase over the estimates at appraisal, in
constant prices, was modest, and together with an increase in the contribution from the Government, did not
lead to any reduction in the quality or scope of the project components. There were no delays in the
provision of counterparts funds by ENRA, reflecting the desire and support of both the implementing
agency and the Government to achieve a satisfactory outcome to the project.




                                                     - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the overall project is regarded as likely. At the outset, it was expected that once
established, the system to facilitate trade and transport should be sustained because it would become part of
Estonia's regular trade and transport operations. It was also expected that the road civil works components
and institution building component should be sustainable because ENRA was a competent organization that
already demonstrated its effectiveness in maintaining the road network during the Highway Maintenance
Project. The main risks that were identified at appraisal included: (i) infrastructure improvements may not
lead to a decrease in vehicle operating costs; (ii) safety improvements may not lead to a reduction in
accidents; (iii) use of the Pavement Management System may not lead to improved road maintenance
administration; and (iv) EDI may not attract private investors.

These risks, with one exception, did not materialize and a number of project achievements are likely to be
sustainable. The trade facilitation component is likely to continue because of the involvement of the private
sector. The institutional capacity building and road safety components also are likely to be sustained
because of the competence of the implementing agency, and the support of the Government. One firm
indication of the latter is the significant increase in planned expenditures on road safety in the budget for
2005. The Pavement Management System is established with ENRA in operational terms, forming part of
the budgetary process, identifying priorities, and allocating resources to the network.

However, one ongoing area of concern pertains to the provision of funding for road maintenance and
sustaining the gains of the civil works projects. Estonia's road budget is composed of state treasury
allocations, European Union allocations, and loans from the IFIs, namely the World Bank, Nordic
Investment Bank, and the European Investment Bank. The IFI loans, however, have been cancelled.
Although the level of funding for roads in Estonia has increased in recent years, there has not been a
corresponding increase in funding for road maintenance. In 2000, out of the total road budget of EEK 795
million, EEK 599 million was used for routine maintenance of the network. Out of the total 2001 budget of
EEK 777 million, only EEK 485 million was used to maintain the network, as more funds were dedicated
for local counterpart financing of IFI loans. The 2002 maintenance situation was even more difficult. The
2002 total allocation for roads increased significantly to EEK 1118 million while only EEK 464 million
was used for maintenance. The 2003 total allocation also increased significantly to EEK 1513 million while
only EEK 465 million was used for maintenance. Required maintenance after the 2002-2003 winter when
weather conditions were significantly worse than usual highlights the need for sufficient funding for road
maintenance. The allocation of funds for roads in 2004 was EEK 1966 million, which includes EEK 516
million for maintenance. Planned expenditures in 2005 are EEK 2184, of which EEK 562 million would be
expended on maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations should, with one exception, prove relatively straightforward, as ENRA
has quickly built capacity under the project. However, in the absence of a source of independent revenue,
ENRA is reliant on the national budgetary process, whereby short and long term requirements, both capital
and current, are subject to the priorities of the Government. The lack of a defined, and increasing, budget
allocation for the maintenance needs of the road sector is undermining the benefits resulting from
rehabilitation in the project. The national road network represents a substantial asset for the country, and a
lack of recurrent expenditure on maintenance, when needed, is likely to increase the capital expenditures in
the future.




                                                      - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The World Bank's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the Project was satisfactory. Staff
identified and prepared a project that was consistent with the CAS. Project appraisal was undertaken by
World Bank staff in a thorough manner and in close cooperation with the Borrower. The appraisal decision
to establish a new PIU, comprised of ENRA staff, was appropriate and yielded benefits in project
implementation. The project objectives were clear and specific. The components supported the objectives of
the project and addressed issues on a timely basis. The project design combined civil works and
institutional capacity building which were appropriate to meet the transport needs existing during the
project implementation period and beyond. The project was consistent with the World Bank's strategy to
help improve the competitiveness of Estonia's trade supporting infrastructure and services. World Bank
staff and the Estonian counterparts who were responsible for project implementation enjoyed productive
and good relations.

7.2 Supervision:
The World Bank's supervision of the project was satisfactory. World Bank staff undertook supervision of
the physical and institutional project components in a professional and conscientious manner. Few major
issues arose during project implementation. When implementation of the environmental-related activities
was lagging, World Bank staff were proactive with the Borrower to ensure that this important aspect of the
project proceeded as designed. World Bank supervision was effective with respect to monitoring the
technical aspects of the project. Government counterparts expressed appreciation for the valuable
contributions by the World Bank's core staff. The supervision team generally included highway engineering
and environmental expertise, supplemented as necessary with other key skills. Continuity of team
leadership was a valuable asset to the project and the skill-mix was appropriate. World Bank supervision of
the financial aspects of the project, including the financial performance of the Borrower and its compliance
with financial covenants, was also effective. The quantity and quality of World Bank staff assigned to the
Project were suited to the project's requirements. There were no known deviations from World Bank
policies or procedures, and loan conditionalities were adhered to at all times.

World Bank Task Team members also participated in a number of seminars and conducted presentations
on roads and road transport in the Baltic States. A workshop to disseminate the main findings of the 2nd
Seminar on Transport Sector Restructuring in the Baltic States was held in Tallinn in 2004 and was
attended by representatives from the respective government offices, customs agencies, universities and the
private sector. Additional dissemination events were held as well. The MOTC expressed support for the
World Bank's Trade and Transport Facilitation Survey carried out in the three Baltic states in April-June
2004. The Government expressed agreement that the study results would be of great value in enhancing
trade in the region.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall World Bank performance was satisfactory. World Bank staff were responsive to clients in
identifying and appraising the project, and responsive during implementation as circumstances required.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation by the Borrower was fully satisfactory. Project preparation was undertaken in a manner
that reflected the competence and flexibility of Government and ENRA representatives in meeting the
demands, providing output, and providing documentation as and when needed, to the required standard.




                                                      - 11 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during implementation. Decisions were taken in a timely and
appropriate manner and staff were responsive to needs as they arose. Progress reporting, as well as the
submission of reports and financial statements, was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance was also satisfactory during implementation. Decisions were
taken in a timely and appropriate manner and staff were responsive to needs as they arose. Progress
reporting, as well as the submission of reports and financial statements, was satisfactory. The performance
of consultants employed under the project was satisfactory as well.

It took some time to build momentum for the road safety component because of the challenges associated
with implementing interventions and seeing results within a short time frame. Also, after some delay, an
in-house Environmental Unit was established in ENRA to oversee preparation of Environmental
Assessments and EMPs. The process of compliance with the environmental aspects of the project also took
time. Specifically, the required public disclosure process occurred after the loan was approved and became
effective, and after the final designs were completed for the two pilot project contracts. As a result, the
public was not able to raise issues that may have been incorporated into the project's design of the pilot
contracts.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory for the reasons cited above.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be learned from this project.

Management and Administration of the Project. Successful projects are the culmination of the actions of
competent people who are dedicated and able to take advantage of financial resources and new technical
and managerial approaches to improving how the work is undertaken in a client country. This was the case
in this project. Road administration and road rehabilitation projects are more successful when supervision
of contractors is undertaken in a conscientious and thorough manner to ensure the quality of the work meets
required specifications and environmental assessments are undertaken in a timely manner to avoid
unanticipated disruptions in work.

Role of EU Accession. The EU accession process has played a catalytic role in accelerating institutional
and policy reform in Central and Eastern European countries, and this was the case in this project. EU
standards for upgrading pavement and traffic safety, which were taken into account in this project, provide
a framework and goal to aim for.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The ICR was forwarded to the Borrower in draft form for their comments: The Implementing Agency, the
ENRA, stated that their evaluation of the World Bank's performance in undertaking the obligations inherent
in the Loan Agreement had been highly satisfactory. The staff of ENRA appreciated, and benefitted, from
the close professional relationship with World Bank staff during both the preparation and implementation
of the project, and the technical assistance components made a substantive contribution to strengthening,
and sustaining the technical capacity of the ENRA.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                    - 12 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Analysis of Road Rehabilitation Costs:
An analysis of the cost of rehabilitation per kilometer, of the road segments included in the project, is
provided in the following table. The table reveals that there has been an apparent increase in the contract
price per kilometer through implementation. However, this table presents the contract prices in current
prices; in constant prices, the increases were less marked, although higher than the original estimate at
appraisal. However, the costs still compare favorably with the survey of costs for similar rehabilitation
works worldwide, contained in the World Bank's ROCKs database. The range of costs for rehabilitation
with an asphalt concrete overlay goes from a minimum of US$45,069 per kilometer to a maximum of
US$657,747 per kilometer, with an average of US$262,992 per kilometer. The right hand column reveals
that the costs are still, for most road segments, below the average for similar activities elsewhere,
something that is supported by observation of the relatively flat terrain, with few undulations.

              Rehabilitation Costs per Kilometer for Road Segments in the Project at Appraisal
            and at Contract Signing (EEK Million per km and US$ Equivalent in Current Prices)

     Reference   Section              Section Length  Year of Contract  Capital Costs     Capital Costs
                 Start    Finish      (km)                              (EEK Mill per Km) (USD Equivalent
                                                                                          Mill per km)
           1     Aruvalla  Kose             13.8      N/A                      N/A               N/A
           2     Kose     Voobu             27.4                   2000               2.1              0.18
           3     Voobu     Purdi            12.5                   2000               2.3              0.20
           4     Purdi     Mao 1            6.2                    2000               2.3              0.20
           5     Mao 1     Mao 11           3.6                    2001               2.5              0.22
           6     Mao 11    Iimatsalu        93.0                   2002               2.7              0.23
           7     llmatsalu Torvandi         5.0                    2002               3.2              0.27
           8     Torvandi Uhti              6.0                    2004               3.9              0.34




                                                    - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
3.3 Regular increases in the ENRA's budget US$100 million (in 2005)                      Allocated amount in 2005 Budget is EEK
from US$50 million in 1999 to US$100                                                     2184 million (USD 171 million equivalent)
million in 2005
4.1 Estonia's non-bulk transit traffic         190,250                                   190,250, an increase of 370% from the
increases by 5 percent per year from 2000 to                                             appraisal baseline.
2005
1.1 Roughness of road reduced from an          Average IRI = 2.5 m/km                    Average roughness on Tallinn-Tartu-
average IRI of 4.0 m/km to 2.5 m/km by                                                   Luhamaa road 0.9 m/km as at December 31,
project completion.                                                                      2004.
2.1 Fatalities per 10,000 vehicles reduced     3.2                                       2.95
from 4.7 to 3.2 over the life of the project.

3.1 Routine maintenance contracted out         30% of overall routine maintenance budget 63% as at December 31, 2004
increased from 0 in 1999 to 30% of
overall routine maintenance budget over the
life of the project.
3.2 Pavement Management System (PMS)           100%                                      100%
installed and functioning


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Length of the Tallinn - Tartu - Luhamaa road 179.6 kilometers                            240 kilometers
rehabilitated
4.1 Pilot EDI installed and operating          100%                                      Funded by private sector, so excluded from
                                                                                         the project output indicators
2.1 Traffic management system installed        100%                                      80%
2.2 Number of accident black spots per year 8                                            8 - See illustrated map in Annex 10
improved
2.3 Safety education program in operation      100%                                      100%

1 End of project




                                                                 - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million   US$ million
1. Works - civil works for the rehabilitation of 270           44.50           49.29           1.11
kilometers of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa Road
2. Goods                                                        1.10             0.05         0.045
3. Services                                                     3.65             1.78          0.49

Total Baseline Cost                                            49.25           51.12
                          Total Project Costs                  49.25           51.12
                                           Front-end fee        0.34             0.22          1.00
                  Total Financing Required                     49.59           51.34


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            41.80             2.70          0.00          0.00       44.50
                                   (20.50)            (1.35)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (21.85)
2. Goods                             1.00             0.00          0.10          0.00        1.10
                                    (1.00)            (0.00)      (0.10)          (0.00)     (1.10)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          1.80          1.85        3.65
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.80)          (0.00)     (1.80)
4. Front End Fee                     0.00             0.00          0.34          0.00        0.34
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.31)          (0.00)     (0.31)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            42.80             2.70          2.24          1.85       49.59
                                   (21.50)            (1.35)      (2.21)          (0.00)     (25.06)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            49.29             0.00         0.00           0.00      49.29
                                   (14.78)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (14.78)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00         0.05           0.00       0.05
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.04)         (0.00)     (0.04)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         1.49           0.29       1.78
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (1.24)         (0.00)     (1.24)
4. Front End Fee                     0.00             0.00         0.22           0.00       0.22


                                                   - 15 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (0.22)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                49.29              0.00              1.76             0.29             51.34
                                           (14.78)            (0.00)            (1.50)            (0.00)           (16.28)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Works - civil works for     21.50        23.00                    14.78         34.51                 68.7     150.0
the rehabilitation of 270
kilometers of the
Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa
Road
2. Goods                        1.10         0.00                     0.04         0.01                   3.6      0.0
3. Services                     1.80         1.85                     1.24         0.54                  68.9      29.2




                                                           - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Economic Evaluation, involving the identification, quantification and comparison of the economic cost
and benefit streams, is based on the following consistent principles:

The original economic analysis is described in Annex 4 of the Transport Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). The only component that was subject to economic appraisal was project component 1 - the
rehabilitation and upgrading of 179 km of the Tallinn-Tartu-Luhamaa road. This component amounted to
87 percent of total project costs. The total cost of the road component (before contingencies) was US$37.7
million equivalent. The analysis was based on the standard approach in the economic appraisal of highway
investments, involving the definition of a 'do-nothing' scenario, without any intervention, and one, or more,
'do-something' scenarios, involving the different interventions being tested. The different economic costs
and benefits are identified over the defined appraisal period, 20 years in this case, then converted into
commensurate terms, prior to being discounted back to the base year, or present value terms, to allow
accurate comparison.

The benefits at appraisal stage were identified as the time and vehicle operating savings, together with the
accident cost savings, and the reduction in maintenance expenditures on the road in the do'something
scenarios over the life time of the road. All costs and benefits were discounted, as is orthodox practice,
using the standard 12 percent discount rate. The actual analysis was undertaken through the use of the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-III), Version III, which is often called a life-cycle
assessment model, which has been designed by the World Bank and partners, specifically to aid road
investment management and appraisal. Changes in road user costs were computed using this model based
on user defined inputs on vehicle fleet characteristics, utilization, economic unit costs, traffic volumes and
growth rates on the project segments over the lifetime of the project. The time and accident cost savings
were calculated separately and input into the final estimate of the Net Present Value (NPV) as exogenous
benefits. The former were also inflated by 4 percent per annum to reflect the expected growth in real
incomes over the appraisal period. Real income had grown by 8 percent per annum over the period
1993-1997. The results of the economic appraisal, presented in terms of the NPV and the Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for each of the eight road segments that were identified for inclusion in the
project at appraisal, and specified in the PAD, is provided in the following table. The PAD also reported
the total NPV of all eight road segments at EURO 31 million (US$33 million equivalent), and an aggregate
EIRR of 32.3 percent.

Table 3.1 Results of Economic Analysis on Project Road Sections at Appraisal (NPV EEK Mill and EIRR
                                                    percent)

       Reference  Section                Chainage              Section  Intervention    Base
                  Start      Finish      Start     Finish      (km)     Original         NPV       EIRR
                                                                                       (Mill EEK)   %
            1     Aruvalla   Kose             25.6         39.4    13.8 Rehabilitation        60.8    50
            2     Kose       Voobu            39.4         66.8    27.4 Rehabilitation       166.0    21
            3     Voobu      Purdi            66.8         79.3    12.5 Rehabilitation       132.1    28
            4     Purdi      Mao 1            79.3         87.4     6.2 Rehabilitation        28.9    67
            5     Mao 1      Mao 11           87.4          90      3.6 Rehabilitation        39.0    20
            6     Mao 11     Iimatsalu         90          183     93.0 Rehabilitation       190.6    44
            7     llmatsalu  Torvandi         183          188      5.0 Rehabilitation        37.1    25
            8     Torvandi   Uhti             189        195.3      6.0 Rehabilitation        61.9    36




                                                      - 17 -

After the completion of the project, the economic analysis of the completed road segments was redone,
using the actual capital costs per kilometer from the contract prices, together with actual traffic data
(Autumn 2004), collected from traffic counts on the project roads. The economic appraisal was undertaken,
on this occasion, using the Highway Design and Management Model (HDM-IV), Version 4, calibrated
using the same data from the Pavement Management System, as the HDM III model had been earlier. The
results of this exercise, which are presented in the following table, Table 3.2, are acknowledged to be not
strictly comparable (e.g. actual section lengths, in some cases, differ slightly from appraised section
lengths), but they are sufficiently similar to provide an indication of the economic performance of the
appraised sections based on the new data.

Table 3.2 Results of Economic Analysis on Project Road Sections at Appraisal (NPV EEK Mill and EIRR
                                                   percent)

            Reference     Section           Section LengthNPV (Mill EEK)       EIRR %
                        Start     Finish    (km)      Appraisal       Present  Appraisal  Present


                 1      Aruvalla  Kose         13.8             60.8    N/A            50  N/A
                 2      Kose      Voobu        27.4            166.0     128.5         21       18
                 3      Voobu     Purdi        12.5            132.1      75.9         28       26
                 4      Purdi     Mao 1         6.2             28.9      33.4         67       73
                 5      Mao 1     Mao 11        3.6             39.0      42.1         20       38
                 6      Mao 11    Iimatsalu    93.0            190.6     295.0         44       47
                 7      llmatsalu Torvandi      5.0             37.1      39.3         25       27
                 8      Torvandi  Uhti          6.0             61.9      83.7         36       38



Generally, the revised economic analysis indicates that five out of the original eight sections performed
better, in terms of their NPV and EIRR, in the revised economic evaluation, than at appraisal. Two sections
performed slightly worse, primarily due to static demand on those sections, as revealed in a comparison of
actual 2004 traffic data with estimated 2000 traffic data.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/15/1999                9    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); PROJECTS OFFICER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/08/1999                9    PROGRAM TEAM                     S               S
                                             LEADER (1); COUNSEL
                                             (2); FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1)


 Supervision

              04/28/2000                6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL EXPERT (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL EXPERT
                                             (1)
              09/01/2000                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (CONSULTANT) (1)
              09/01/2000                1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)          S               S
              06/05/2001                4    LEAD HIGHWAY ENGINEER            S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              10/26/2001                4    LEAD HIGHWAY ENGINEER            S               S



                                              - 19 -

                                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               03/01/2002              4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER               S    S
                                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               02/13/2003              2    PTL (1); OO (1)                   S    S
               11/25/2003              1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)           S    S
               03/24/2004              1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)           S    S
               10/05/2004                   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
                                            PROGRAM TEAM                      S    S
                                            LEADER (1); SENIOR
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); SENIOR TRANSPORT
                                            ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              n/a                          448
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   n/a                             -
  Supervision                             n/a                          290
  ICR                                     n/a                             -
  Total                                   n/a                          738




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Transport Project Appraisal Document, February 23, 2000, Report No. :19672 EE
2. Transport Project Development Credit Agreement
3. Minutes and Records of Negotiations
4. Every Transport Project Quarterly Report since 2000
5. Aide-Memoires and Archived PSRs from 2000
6. Correspondence of the Transport Project
7. QAG Assessment from Quality at Entry Review
8. Compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies: B. Baratz, June 2003




                                                - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution


         Mart Puust
         <mart.puust@mail.ee>       To <Cqueiroz@worldbank.org>
                                    cc "R. Martin Humphreys" <rhumphreys@worldbank.org>
         06/20/2005 11:19 AM    SubjectRE: Estonia: Transport Project (P035775) - ICR




Dear Cesar,

Thank you for forwarding the draft ICR. ENRA have no further comments on the
content, and are happy for you to include the ENRA map indicating the location
of the rehabilitated sections, supplied to Mr Humphreys during his last
visit.

Thank you very much for any kind of assistance and favourable respect to our
cooperation.

Best Regards,

Mart Puust
ENRA


"Anti Moppel"
Anti.Moppel@mkm.ee

02/18/2005 07:56 AM
To: Cqueiroz@worldbank.org, mart.puust@mnt.ee
Subject: RE: Estonia Transport, Implementation Completion Report, additional
information needed

Dear Cesar
Please find enclosed the draft for trade facilitation component.
Best regards,
Anti

Draft. 16.02.05
Trade Facilitation component

Trade Facilitation
This component was coordinated directly from MOTC. Given the progress in the
EDI   component    in     securing   funds    from     the      private      sector   for EDI
implementation, loan funds did not need to be used for this purpose. The
component of the project evolved in the following manner. As part of project
preparation, a Transport and Trade Facilitation study was carried out in
1998-1999.

The study produced a Strategic Plan and an Action Plan that were disseminated
in April 1999. In May 1999, the MOTC established the Estonian Infrastructure
and Transit Development Foundation (EDIT), which is financed partly under the
MOTC budget and partly by the private sector. Under the Vektor brand name,
this Foundation aims to promote Estonia as a transit hub not only for oil but
for unitized cargo flows as well.

A special area of interest for Vektor was to develop and offer EDI-based



                                           - 24 -

solution in Estonian trade and transport. The modern hard and software were
bought and the pilot project was finished in 2002. As of January 2004 the
EDI-Vektor Ltd was incorporated into Tallinn Port Ltd structure and in 2003,
Port of Tallinn acquired 100% of AS EDI Vektor shares from the State
Infocommunication Foundation. 100% of AS EDI Vektor shares were acquired on 31
October 2003.

Although EDI service has a great potential, AS EDI Vektor could not implement
the EDI service at level satisfactory to potential users. Since by the end of
2003 AS EDI Vektor was running out of financing received in 2000 and the
company had a negative cash flow, new investors were searched to continue the
EDI project. Port of Tallinn had an interest towards the project as more
efficient information flow provided by the EDI environment would help to
increase the efficiency of cargo and passenger flows in the port. Currently
the work group formed by Port of Tallinn in the summer of 2003 has prepared a
general EDI activity plan focusing on the possibilities of higher operations
efficiency related to the information flows in Port of Tallinn harbors and
between the companies of port community. The goal of the activity plan is to
review the former strategy of AS EDI Vektor and offer possible future steps
for the development of EDI environment. Until the activity plan is finalized
and approved by the project partners, the business activity of AS EDI Vektor
has been frozen. More active work started in 2005.




                                     - 25 -

Additional Annex 9. Map of Road Rehabilitation by World Bank Financing




                                        - 26 -

%    %




          %    %                                                %




                                                                                                                                Ł




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  、
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        




                                                                                                                                                                                                    




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                                                                                            




                                                                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        




                                                                                                                                                                    




                                                                                                                                                                            




                                                            




                                                    




                                                                                                                                            




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                            




                                                                                                      




                            




                                                                                                                                                                                    




                                                                                                                                                    




                                                                                                                                                                                                




                                                                                                                                                                




                                                                                                                   




                                                                                                                                                                        




                                                                                                                                                                                        




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             




                                                        




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         




                                                                                                                                                                                            




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     




                                            !


                                                                                                                                                                                




                                                                                                                                                




                                             !




                                              !




                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                        




                                                                     "    "                 "                          "




                    




                                                                                             #                          #




                                    




                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                       $




                            




                                                                                        

                                        

