Document of
FILE COPY                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2038-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
May 12, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at April 28, 1977)
Rs 1.00                =           Paise 100
US$1.00                =           Rs 8.73
Rs 1.00                =           US$0.1145
Rs-1 million           =           US$114,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee Exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in the appraisal
Report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI:     April 1 - March 31
ARDC:    July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC - Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI   -  Government of India
LDB   - Land Development Banks
RBI   - Reserve Bank of India



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to the Government of India (GOI) for the equivalent of US$200
million on standard IDA terms. The credit would support the activities of the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) in providing credit
mainly to farmers for on farm development purposes, primarily minor irrigation.
The proceeds of the credit would be channelled through the ARDC to cooperative
and commercial banks for on-lending to farmers. On-lending from GOI to ARDC
would be for 9 and 15 years at not less than 6.5% and 7.5X interest per annum,
respectively, depending on the type of investments to be refinanced by ARDC.
ARDC would on-lend the funds to banks at a minimum 7.5% and 8% annual interest
for up to 15 years, the actual terms again depending on the type of investments
refinanced. Banks would lend to farmers for minor irrigation investments at a
minimum annual interest rate of 10.5% and for other types of investments at a
minimum annual rate of 11%. Details of on-lending arrangements are presented
in Annex III.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 640 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investible resources: the net transfer of resources
from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as 0.8%
between 1969/70 and 1973/74; similarly, while India's domestic savings ef-
fort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP. The investment rate puts India
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Madhya Pradesh Extension and Research Project
(Report No. P-2011-IN), dated May 2, 1977.
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
in the lower third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is
the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10%
in the early 1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP
growth has remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the
efficiency of capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization,
long project gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive
projects and sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world, in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum (converted at the official exchange rate) and US$250 on a purchasing
power parity basis.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. Undoubtedly, changes in economic policies
and emphasis will be formulated in the course of the next few months. The
state of the economy was not a prominent election issue; in fact the economy
was generally stronger than at any time in the last six years. Although the
growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top
of the very good growth of 8.8% in 1975/76. Agricultural production is ex-
pected to have fallen by about 3%, but only because of the return to a more
normal harvest of 110-114 million tons of foodgrains after the record 121
million tons of the previous year. Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77,
which is significantly above the rates achieved in the late 1960's and early
1970's. Exports continued their bright performance, rising by 18% in US dol-
lars and 12% in volume terms. The overall resource position, with record
foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exceptionally strong, and gives
the Government considerable room for maneuver.



7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September, 1974 through March 1976,
rose 11% from the end of March to December, 1976 and continued rising into
1977. It is not yet clear whether this upsurge indicates a new inflationary
trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the relative
prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign ex-
change reserves, to a level of US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the trade deficit
is estimated to have fallen by US$1,080 million, due to a rise of US$845
million in exports and also to a fall of US$235 million in imports, primarily
because of lower prices and volumes of foodgrains and fertilizer imports. The
decreased trade deficit, along with a further increase in the net inflow of
miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad of US$540 million, more than
offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and the substantial repurchases
of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves,
which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the new Government the op-
portunity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task
is to raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%.
In the long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But
it will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptablly low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity



of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With
regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for rapid growth, as the most serious
constraints on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation
with respect to power, coal and imported raw materials and components. There
has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77 Central
Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In many
cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in their
markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain chemicals,
some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and vehicles.
But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand will grow
only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If the higher
growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize,
it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to
specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share that agri-
culture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for agricul-
tural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced
inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand signi-
ficantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       Improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for India's
ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organizational



and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been overcome,
production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable, and the
industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export demand.
Supply of electricity continues to be a concern, because of the vulnerability
of hydro power to variations in the monsoon and the continued existence
of local shortages, even when the overall power situation is satisfactory.
But the severe power supply constraints of the past have been relaxed for
the moment at least, and several institutional improvements promise to reduce
the future incidence of shortages: underutilization of capacity has been
virtually eliminated in well-established power stations; progress has been
made in the organized exchange of power between states thus relieving local-
ized power shortages; and the problems of slow implementation of power invest-
ment due to delayed delivery of materials and equipment have virtually dis-
appeared. In addition, the delays caused by the inability of State Electricity
Boards to finance projects expeditiously have been eased by their improved
financial position following tariff increases, and by increased Plan outlays
by the Central Government. The medium term prospects for the oil and gas
sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil and gas near the
large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to
shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an annual rate of 2
million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by
1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above
the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising
imports will be avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are
also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of
exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. This ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near



future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$808 million has been
repaid, and US$1,524 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$12.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$31.5 million, US$25.0 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for



- 7 -
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective use of existing capacity, stimulate investment and accelerate eco-
nomic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects
in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local expenditures.
India imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity of the
domestic capital goods industry. The import component of projects tends to
be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture, education, and
family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an appropriate con-
tribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is important to
cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
March 31, 1977, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$968 mil-
lion, of which US$512 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$456 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



- 8 -
PART III - AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN INDIA
23.       India 's agricultural growth strategy requires for its success
substantial cash investment on the part of millions of farmers in modern in-
puts and assets. The traditional system of family financing and rural money-
lending supplied a large portion of funds in the past; but these sources are
not well-suited to the needs of modern agriculture because of their consumption
orientation, lack of organization and, in most cases, high cost. Specialized
agricultural credit institutions with the ability technically to appraise proj-
ects and lend for them on the basis of their productivity; with access to funds
outside the rural sector; and with the ability to fulfill farmers' needs for
production credit at reasonable cost have come to play a crucial role in
facilitating and accelerating private agricultural investment.
24.       Private investment of the type financed by institutional agricul-
tural credit increased substantially in the period from the mid-1960s to the
early 1970s. In terms of total agricultural investment, institutional agri-
cultural credit financed less than 3% of total investment in agriculture in
1956; it reached 8% in 1961; then jumped to 20% in 1969 and has remained at
about this level through 1973/74. In terms of total farmers borrowings, by
the early 1950s, institutional credit provided only 7% of borrowings by
farmers; by 1962 it was 19%, by 1968 it was 38%, and currently it is about
40%. A very large proportion of farm investment remains in such traditional
assets as bullocks and the wooden ploughs and carts to go with them; but
between 1966 and 1972 investment in tubewells and pumpsets rose over 250%,
tractors about 175% and iron ploughs over 50%, compared to less than 3% for
the traditional assets. Overall, private investment in agriculture surged
from 1966 to 1971, and then fell somewhat in real but not nominal terms
through 1975. With the good monsoons of 1975 and 1976, there are indications
that private investment is picking up again.
25.       The bulk of loans from agricultural credit institutions to farmers
has been to finance minor irrigation investments - mainly tubewells and pump-
sets; but dugwells, river lift, tank and small surface diversion irrigation
have been financed as well. This is consistent with the need to expand the
irrigated area which is seen by most analysts of Indian agriculture as the
crucial variable in raising productivity. Minor irrigation (mostly private)
accounts for over half of current gross irrigated area and represents just
under half of the ultimate irrigation potential remaining to be developed.
Undeveloped potential for minor irrigation is particularly large in the Eastern
Region (West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Assam and eastern Uttar Pradesh) where
progress has been slow, despite a huge aquifer. Recently the Government of
India with the assistance of the Bank Group has been concentrating on raising
agricultural productivity in this region through a series of agricultural
projects with research and extension as their centerpiece. Several of these
have already been presented to the Board. These efforts are expected to lead
not only to significant increases in national foodgrain output and to improve-
ment of regional income distribution but ultimately also to stimulation of
large scale private investment in minor irrigation.



- 9 -
26.       The history of agricultural credit institutions is long, starting
with the Cooperative Credit Societies Act of 1904. The cooperative credit
system has provided the bulk of institutional credit for agriculture, over 60%
in 1973/74. However, since their nationalization in 1969, major commercial
banks have lent an increasing portion of their funds for agricultural projects
and have accounted for an increasing portion of institutional credit in the
sector. Both the cooperative and commercial banking systems provide short-
term crop loans and medium and long term project loans. The cooperative
system is comprised of a three-tiered system of cooperative societies at the
village, district and state levels that extend mainly short-term credit but
also some medium term loans; and a separate two-tiered structure of land
development banks at state and district levels that lend exclusively for
medium and long term, mostly against the security of land mortgages.
27.       Demand for medium and long term institutional credit for agriculture
is estimated to be about Rs 24 billion (US$2.7 billion) during the Fifth Plan
(1974-79). Funds are raised by sale of debentures, mainly to state governments,
commercial banks, Life Insurance Corporation of India, other agencies, and
also to individuals. An important and increasing part of medium and long term
credit disbursed through land development banks and commercial banks is re-
financed by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC).
In addition to providing funds, ARDC plays an important role in improving the
performance of agricultural credit institutions through technical assistance
and enforcement of performance standards.
28.       The main problems in the institutional credit sector are:    high loan
overdues in the cooperative system; marked regional disparities in volume of
lending; and difficulty in providing access to credit for the smallest farmers.
To some degree these problems are interrelated, as often areas where overdues
are highest are the areas where the volume of lending is lowest and the pro-
portion of small farms is highest. For the most part, these problems do not
originate in the agricultural credit system but are a reflection of more
fundamental problems of agricultural development, particularly extensive rural
poverty and low productivity. Nevertheless, lack of agricultural credit is
part of the problem and much can be done to improve the situation. Loan
overdues can be reduced by better technical and economic appraisal of projects,
improved supervision, and greater determination at the state level to enforce
repayment discipline both among farmers and within the institutions themselves.
Regional differentials can be reduced by strengthening the financial position
and administration of credit institutions in backward states and creating clear
expectations by use of targets for their growth. The volume of loans to small
farmers can be raised by increasing the incentives for credit institutions to
lend to small farmers and by providing credit terms that offer sufficient
inducement for small farmers to risk undertaking economically viable investments.
29.       To help meet these needs the Government of India established ARDC
in 1963 to increase the flow of medium- and long-term credit and to strengthen
local credit and supporting institutions. Since its creation, ARDC has estab-
lished a reputation for sound technical and financial appraisal standards for



- 10 -
refinancing lending schemes of local institutions. In 1969, the Bank began
its association with ARDC by using it as a vehicle for loans to seed growers
in the Terai Seeds Project (Ln. 614-IN). This was followed in the period
1970 through 1975 by ten agricultural credit projects, each at the state level,
mainly for refinancing loans to farmers through state land development banks.
These credits were basically concerned with minor irrigation development, land
levelling and, in some states, farm mechanization. In addition, there have
been thirteen operations where ARDC served as a vehicle for financing private
investment under various agricultural projects. Two of these operations
financed market development projects in Bihar and Karnataka; four provided
refinance of on-farm development, land shaping and watercourse construction
in irrigation projects; three were for dairy development; and other projects
dealt with apple processing and marketing, seeds production, cotton cultiva-
tion and ginning, and on-farm development in drought prone areas. In 1975, as
a consequence of experience gained from the ten agricultural credit projects,
IDA provided US$75 million to ARDC (Cr. 540-IN, ARDC I) to support its all-
India operations for a 24 month period. As in the state operations, highest
priority was given to minor irrigation. Progress of this first ARDC credit
has been exceptional. The Corporation has been scrupulous in its adherence
to agreements and undertakings and has been regular in submitting required
reports, documents and audited accounts. Disbursements under the project are
on schedule at this time and are expected to be completed ahead of the Closing
Date (December 31, 1977). Through the above 11 agricultural credit projects,
ARDC has had access to US$395 million of Bank Group lending over the last eight
years. Of this, as of March 31, 1977 it had utilized US$308 million or 77%.
30.       GOI and ARDC, with the support of the Bank Group, have been making
progress toward the solution of many of the problems discussed above. To make
inroads on the high level of overdues, ARDC has strived to improve standards
of appraisal, supervision and collection through programs of training staff
of local institutions; and has required institutions to meet schedules for
improvement in their overdues position as a condition of continuing refinance.
It has obtained in some cases state governments' commitments to enforce col-
lections discipline and has been active in project supervision and imple-
mentation activities. It has paid particular attention to strengthening
institutions in backward areas and has set targets for the proportion of funds
flowing to these areas. It has special provisions for encouraging lending to
small farmers, including lower down payments and longer repayment terms for
such loans and proportional targets for the volume of such lending.
31.       GOI has also taken other steps to alleviate some important insti-
tutional constraints to increasing the flow of rural credit. In areas where
the cooperative credit structure is weak, GOI has encouraged commercial banks
to take up the slack and open more rural branches. The Reserve Bank of India
(RBI), through a committee known as the Talwar committee, has made recommen-
dations, now adopted by ten states and being considered by a number of others,
for legal and administrative changes in state banking systems to put commer-
cial banks on an equal footing with cooperative banks. In the past, coopera-
tive banks have enjoyed certain advantages such as exemption or relaxation in



- 11 -
the payment of stamp duty and registration of liens, as well as priority on
claims. Partly as a result of these measures, commercial bank lending refi-
nanced by ARDC has been rapidly increasing in recent years and grew from
Rs 279 million in FY1975 to Rs 708 million in FY1976.
32.       Another significant step which could lead to substantial improve-
ment in the institutional framework for cooperative credit is the recent
completion of a comprehensive study undertaken by the Reserve Bank of India
and ARDC under ARDC I to examine the feasibility of merging the short and long
term cooperative credit structures. An RBI/ARDC committee (The Committee on
Integration of the Cooperative Credit Institutions) concluded that the two
cooperative structures should be merged to ensure that investment (long-term)
credit and production (short-term) credit needs of farmers are adequately met.
Under the present dual system, often one or the other type of credit is not
available to farmars when needed.    Also, there are often conflicting security
requirements and other problems associated with dealing with two separate
institutions. The result is that investments are not as productive as they
should be or, in some cases, are not undertaken at all, to the detriment of
farmers and the economy. GOI and IDA are pursuing the implementation of
these recommendations. Under the proposed project GOI and ARDC would provide
regular reports to IDA on the progress of implementation of the Committee's
recommendations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The project was prepared by the staff of ARDC and submitted to IDA
in August, 1976. It was appraised in November 1976, and negotiations were
held in Washington in April, 1977. The Borrower's delegation was headed by
Mr. I.J. Naidu, Secretary, Rural Development, Government of India. A report
entitled "Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit
Project" (Report No. 1520-IN), dated May 12, 1977) is being circulated to
the Executive Directors separately. A credit and project summary is attached
as Annex III.
Project Description
34.       The project would continue Bank Group support, over two years, for
ARDC's program of lending to farmers. The project would also continue support
for an intensive training program primarily for staff of land development
banks. The main focus of ARDC lending would continue to be minor irrigation
development to assist in increasing India's food production. The staff train-
ing program would enable the main rural banking institutions to meet more
effectively the growing credit needs of Indian agriculture.
35.       The project would provide loans to approximately 500,000 farmers.
The minor irrigation component would involve loans primarily for wells and
pumpsets, to supply an estimated I million ha with irrigation water. US$175
million of the credit would be utilized for minor irrigation and land devel-
opment.



- 12 -
36.       Credit would also be provided to farmers for development of tree
crops, dairy and poultry, sericulture, fisheries and several other agricul-
tural activities. US$24 million would be utilized for these diversified
lending purposes.
37.       US$100 million of the Credit would be reserved for small farmers
who would qualify for preferential borrowing terms provided that their anti-
cipated income was adequate to repay the loan over a prescribed period.
Small farmers would be identified on the basis of their predevelopment in-
come. A farm family earning Rs 2,000 or less per year at 1972 prices (or
about US$50 per capita) would be entitled to participate in the project
under less stringent terms for down payment and repayment period.
38.       The training component would provide for continuation and expansion
of training begun under ARDC I. Training would focus on staff of agricultural
lending institutions, particularly of land development banks, to accelerate
improvement in the quality and quantity of lending and recoveries. The train-
ing program should result in improvement of overall operating effciency of the
main rural credit institutions. US$1.0 million of the Credit would be devoted
to this component.
ARDC Description
39.       ARDC would be responsIble for carrying out the project.    ARDC is
qualified in terms of staff competence and experience to undertake the task.
During fiscal year 1976, ARDC disbursed refinance assistance amounting to
US$190 million, up from US$118 million the year before, and sanctioned 850
new lending schemes representing commitments of US$329 million. The aggregate
disbursement by ARDC since its inception amounts to US$660 million represent-
ing total agricultural investment of over US$800 million when contributions
of banks, state governments and ultimate beneficiaries are taken into account.
Refinancing for minor irrigation schemes accounts for the major portion of
ARDC's business. Up to June 30, 1976, this accounted for 75.2% followed by
farm mechanization (10.8%), land development, reclamation, and soil conser-
vation (5.8%), with the balance divided among plantation and horticulture,
diversified agriculture, storage and market yard schemes.
40.       ARDC had grown to a professional staff of 320 and 15 regional offices
as of June 30, 1976. ARDC has a nine member Board of Directors. The Chair-
man is a Deputy Governor of RBI. ARDC's shareholders include RBI, State Land
Development Banks, State Cooperative Banks, the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, commercial banks and investment companies.
41.       ARDC derives its operating funds through borrowings from GOI, RBI
and the market as well as from profits on investments. Its GOI borrowings
represent mainly the flow of IDA funds to ARDC under ongoing projects. As
of the end of FY76, ARDC's sources of funds were as follows: capital and
reserves Rs 250 million, GOI borrowings, Rs 2,500 million; RBI borrowings,
Rs 1,400 million; and capital market borrowings, Rs 1,377 million.



- 13 -
42.       ARDC's operations are conducted mostly through the refinancing of
lending schemes undertaken by state land development banks (LDB) and commer-
cial banks. Since ARDC's inception, LDBs have accounted for about 76% of
ARDC's total refinance of Rs 6,000 million through FY1976. Commercial banks
accounted for 21% and state cooperative banks 3%. The proportion of ARDC's
operations accounted for by refinancing of commercial banks has, however,
grown rapidly in recent years, and was 42% of ARDC's FY1976 disbursements.
This proportion is expected to level out at about 50% in the future. ARDC's
operating results are satisfactory. Profits have increased steadily with
ARDC's expanding operations and in FY76, profits before taxes were Rs 58.5
million. ARDC accounts for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1976 have been
audited and received an unqualified report.
43.       The schemes which ARDC supports are mostly area development pro-
grams for a particular type of investment on a large number of farms in a
compact area within a single state. The average size of investment in each
area scheme is about Rs 5 million. Schemes are assessed by ARDC in terms
of technical and financial feasibility. ARDC has expertise in groundwater
development, soil conservation, horticulture, animal husbandry, and fisheries.
The appraisal covers not only the financial feasibility of the schemes, but
also the administrative, organizational, and credit requirements for their
successful implementation.
44.       During the next few years ARDC plans to continue to expand its in-
vestments, particularly in minor irrigation, and to diversify its lending pro-
gram. Another objective is to achieve a more even spread of investments in
different regions (particularly in the lesser developed states in the eastern
and north eastern regions having major untapped groundwater resources). By
FY81, ARDC expects to reach an annual disbursements level of Rs 3,600 million
compared to Rs 1,700 million in FY76.
Project Implementation
45.       Project financing and organizational arrangements would follow the
pattern successfully established under ARDC I. The proceeds of the credit for
minor irrigation and diversified lending would be used by ARDC to refinance up
to 90% of participating banks' loans. ARDC would enter into refinance agree-
ments with participating banks under which eligibility conditions, relending
terms, and well spacing criteria as agreed with IDA would be applied. For
cooperative banks these conditions would include recoveries standards which a
bank must meet to maintain eligibility to receive ARDC refinance. The minimum
level of recoveries permissible would be 75%, with the additional provision
that the bank must have collected on its own at least 65% of debt service due;
the state government could provide the balance of up to 10%, to be applied
against a corresponding amount of arrears, as redeemable equity if necessary.
This standard emphasizes the need for cooperative banks to achieve viability
not through injection of state governmental capital, but through their own
efforts at recovering loans as they become due. To encourage project parti-
cipation and strengthening of LDBs in lesser developed areas, an intermediate



- 14 -
recoveries formula, agreed under ARDC I, would be included under this project
as well. Under this formula, LDBs would be eligible to receive ARDC refinance
according to a sliding scale arrangement which links the amount of refinancing
for which a bank is eligible to its recoveries performance. An LDB would be
eligible to receive a percentage of the refinance received the previous year,
depending upon current recoveries performance. Further, any bank that falls
in performance from one year to the next and achieves a recoveries level below
75% progressively loses its eligibility to receive refinance from ARDC. This
interim formula would be applied until October 31, 1978. After that date, all
LDB would be governed by the 75% minimum recoveries standard (see Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement).
46.       To facilitate lending to small farmers, ARDC, participating banks,
State Governments, and GOI have instituted a number of measures which would
apply under the project. These include: reducing down payments, and, if
necessary, permitting these to be spread over two years rather than paid
in one installment; special terms for participants in groups; and relaxation
of land mortgage requirements and provision of a State Government guarantee
in lieu. Furthermore, many small farmers at the lowest range of the small
farmer definition are also eligible for capital subsidy assistance ander GOI
and state sponsored small and marginal farmer development programs. Subsi-
dies range from 25% for minor irrigation investments to 33-1/3% for invest-
ments in activities such as dairying and poultry raising. Under the project,
the loan portion of investments undertaken by these small farmers would also
be eligible for project refinancing. However, to ensure subsidy funds are
adequately administered, farmer eligibility criteria would be checked for each
subloan by the participating banks, and ARDC would be responsible for overall
supervision.
47.       Interest rates charged under the project would be consistent with
the prevailing overall interest rate structure in India, which is considered
adequate. Inter-sectoral differentials in rates charged by institutions lend-
ing primarily to agriculture and those lending to industry are small. For
example, industrial financing institutions generally lend to industry at 11%
and 12%, and commercial banks for agricultural purposes at about 13% when
using their own funds. Under this project, participating banks, including
commercial banks, would receive funds from ARDC at minimum annual interest
rates of 7.5% for minor irrigation and on-farm development, and 8% for diver-
sified agricultural lending. Final beneficiaries would borrow at minimum
rates of 10.5% for minor irrigation and on-farm development, and 11% for other
agricultural purposes. (On-lending terms and conditions are detailed in Annex
III). Under the project, ARDC would ensure that interest rates charged on
loans would be sufficient to enable ARDC and participating banks to cover all
operating expenditures and charges, including taxes, and maintain adequate
provisions for bad debts and general reserves. While interest rates are gene-
rally adequate to cover the current costs of lending operations, most LDBs
would benefit from an increased "spread" to allow continued expansion and
diversification of operations to meet the needs of small farmers and to ensure
long-term viability. Under the project, ARDC, in conjunction with the Reserve



- 15 -
Bank of India, would carry out a study of interest spreads with particular
reference to the long-term needs of LDBs. The Government has agreed that
such a study would be completed by March 31, 1978 (see Section 4.01 of
Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Steps would be taken under the project to improve ARDC's capabili-
ties to monitor and evaluate its activities and impact. With regard to mo-
nitoring, sampling methodology would be reviewed and modified as appropriate,
and sample sizes increased to provide more accurate and complete information
on the progress of programs at the field level. ARDC's post project and
scheme evaluation system needs strengthening, particularly as ten IDA financed
agricultural credit projects will have been completed during the project
period and will require post project evaluation. To assist in this effort,
and to improve ARDC evaluation methodology, ARDC has agreed to establish, by
December 31, 1977, an evaluation task unit of 4 senior staff in ARDC head-
quarters and to appoint an agricultural economist in each Regional Office
(see Section 3.09 of the Project Agreement).
49.       Groundwater development in India, largely supported by ARDC, is
continuing at an impressive pace and is expected to do so for a number of
years. Together with this development, however, there is a danger of over
exploitation of groundwater in some areas and consequent loss of farmers'
investments and production. In a few areas, the development potential has
already been reached. Consequently, the need for groundwater legislation
is becoming increasingly necessary. Model legislation drafted by the Central
Groundwater Board has been available to states for a number of years    but
no state has enacted it. The State of Gujarat has recently promulgated an
ordinance based on the model legislation, and several other states are
actively considering legislation or similar ordinances, with strong encour-
agement from GOI, ARDC and IDA. However, groundwater is constitutionally a
state subject and in most states there is strong political opposition to
legislation. Therefore, progress is likely to be slow.
50.       On the other hand, institutional control of groundwater has made
significant progress in recent years, and has lessened the danger of over
development. Under previous IDA agricultural credit projects, state ground-
water institutions have been substantially strengthened and more information
on groundwater acquifers, use, and recharge has become available. Under ARDC
I, problem and potential problem areas for groundwater exploitation have been
delineated and are being closely monitored by the Central Groundwater Board
and ARDC. Well spacing criteria and restrictions in problem areas are being
applied by credit institutions throughout India. Also, in risky areas, farmers
are reluctant to invest their own funds, and control through financial institu-
tions is adequate. WIhile IDA, GOI and ARDC would continue to press for early
enactment of legislative controls over groundwater development, the project
would continue to place reliance on institutional controls to ensure that
groundwater problem areas are monitored closely and that institutional finance
for further development is restricted in those areas. ARDC has also agreed
to carry out, by December 31, 1978, studies in these areas to assess in more
accurate measure the remaining potential for development and the extent of
development through private sources of finance (see Section 3.08 of Project
Agreement).



- 16 -
51.       The project would continue and expand training programs for:    (i)
senior and middle level staff of the main agricultural lending institutions;
and (ii) LDB junior staff. At appraisal of ARDC I it was estimated that
about 6,600 agricultural credit banking senior and middle level staff would
require in-service training. About 25% of these will have received such
training by the closing date of ARDC I (December 31, 1977) if current sched-
ules are met. By December 31, 1979, estimated completion date of the pro-
posed project, this should have risen to about 45%. This rate of progress
is satisfactory given that banks have difficulties in releasing staff for
training during busy periods. A study of LDB junior level staff training
requirements conducted by ARDC as part of ARDC I indicated that all the junior
staff of LDB, some 17,500 in all, required training and that the training of
about 9,000 staff in special categories such as technical and recovery officers
should be given priority. All staff in the priority category are expected to
have had this training by completion of ARDC I, and the remainder would receive
it under the project. Present training arrangements and quality of training
are generally satisfactory. ARDC is aware that deficiencies have existed, and
in some instances, still exist in the training program - mainly the lack of
training materials at the LDB training centers. ARDC is adequately staffed,
however, to direct and monitor training programs and implement remedial mea-
sures when problems arise. The primary training center would continue to be
the College of Agricultural Banking (CAB) at Poona. The LDB training centers,
which would handle the bulk of the junior level training, would be required
to meet ARDC standards for the curricula and for staff experience and quality.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The credit would support ARDC's on-farm investment program over a
two year period costing a total of about US$583 million equivalent (includ-
ing duties and taxes) of which the foreign exchange component is about US$73
million or 12%. Included in this cost are about US$437 million for minor
irrigation and US$144 million for diversified lending. The project also
includes a total of US$2 million for training.
53.       The proposed IDA credit of US$200 million would cover 34% of the
total project cost, including the whole of the foreign exchange costs and an
estimated US$127 million of local costs. The remaining 66% of project costs
would be financed by farmers (7%), banks (9%), ARDC (49%), and GOI (1%).
54.       IDA funds for lending to farmers would be channelled by GOI to ARDC
for onlending to participating banks which would, in turn, relend the proceeds
to individuals or groups of farmers. The terms for small farmers would in-
clude less rigid downpayment criteria (5% rather than 10% or 15%) and repay-
ment over a longer period (up to 15 rather than 9 years). Project lending
rates would be in line with the prevailing rate structure in India and the
spreads proposed are reasonable in relation to the risk element involved and
the cost of appraisal and supervision of individual loans (see paragraph 47).



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Procurement would involve small investment items (mainly tubewells
and pumpsets) on individual, widely scattered farms throughout India with pur-
chases spread over two years. As in other ARDC operations finn.aced by the
Bank Group and as is usual in agricultural credit projects financed elsewhere,
project beneficiaries would be given freedom of choice in the procurement of
equipment, goods and services. Consequently, bulking for International Compe-
titive Bidding (ICB) would not be practicable, and ICB would not be used as a
means of procurement.
56.       Normal commercial channels provide an adequate choice of locally
manufactured equipment, good servicing facilities exist, and prices are com-
petitive, so that farmers have a fair choice of goods at reasonable cost.
57.       The credit is expected to be disbursed over two years.     IDA would
disburse against 55% of ARDC's refinance for minor irrigation and diversified
lending; and against 50% of the cost of training.
Economic Benefits and Risks
58.       The project's primary economic benefits would be an increase in agri-
cultural production for domestic consumption and export. At full development,
by about 1984, the annual value of increased production is estimated at about
US$367 million in 1976 prices.
59.       Economic rates of return have been calculated for the investment
models used in the financial analysis of the project. As they are based on
the experience gained under on-going ARDC schemes, they can be regarded as
indicative of the rates of return which would accrue. Results of the calcula-
tions are summarized in the following table which indicates that the overall
economic return of the project would be about 32%.
Economic Rate
of Return
Dugwell and pumpset                27
Shallow tubewell                   41
Pumpset (1.2 ha)                   35
Pumpset (2.0 ha)                   32
Land development             over 50
Coconut                            22
Dairy                              39
Poultry                            23
Mechanized fishing
vessel                          39
Mechanized canoe                   33
60.       Beyond the realization of substantial benefits arising out of pro-
ductive on-farm investments, the project aims at the build-up of stronger
institutions. Strengthening of ARDC's technical units and improvements in



- 18 -
the Corporation's monitoring and evaluation systems should result in better
preparation, appraisal and monitoring of schemes, thus reducing investment
risks. Strengthening of LDBs through intensive staff training would have
a similar impact. Mleasures to improve recovery performance of weak LDBs in
poorer areas should increase the availability of funds for investments and
contribute to a more equitable regional distribution of productive assets.
61.       The number of project beneficiaries would be substantial and is
estimated at about 1 million farmers, including farmers who would be expected
to purchase excess water from project borrowers. At least 50% of the credit
would be extended to small farmers and about 25% of the credit is expected to
be used in the less developed north eastern States. Incremental annual employ-
ment generated by project investment is estimated at about 175 million man-days.
Much of the additional labor would be supplied by unemployed or underemployed
members of beneficiary families. However, a significant part would be provided
by hired laborers, many of them landless people belonging to the poorest
segments of India's population.
62.       The main risk in this type of project is inadequate appraisal and
monitoring of schemes and individual borrowers, leading to poor performance
of some investments and individual loans. ARDC's experience shows that this
risk is slight, and continuing institutional improvement should reduce it
further. The vagaries of weather are an omnipresent risk, but with about 75%
of project investments planned for minor irrigation, the project by its nature
reduces weather risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d), of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Association and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed Development Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
65.       The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARDC has
been made an additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit (see Section
6.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 12, 1977






so   0S                                                                                                                              S
-8  am I                                                                           - 
0 a  SH
4  ;                                 4"     I                                                             1                        C
40  SC a
U  ft  Ut  7%  NO  0-00~~~~~'t  %  N~  .55  0     1%'                             e NCo           -rIt                  4  7
Om I   N          .N-C-M
am                                        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  ~ 
S~~~~~~
c-em  a                                                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  
mew  oc             -I  -I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w  o  1 
*  C  Zco  a  --  00~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ M                  1.N  0  Ot  0a-. =P0 0 t&ON            N                     o  oo
C-I  OS...  -  0-  4W  4~~~~~~ 0  . - -  00%  0 !00.0 0M.  W  aOCO  
46  OS...  -  0                               N~~~~~~V , :. !  Z =  a.0a                                                   -    a
am  ZZR                                                                            00W.                            .                 I
me  U                                                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZM 
3  C  -  a                                                                   5c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  WW:  64   ,  .  .  aZ  '      S
W  H      00 !0      *.   ,    .1   I 0   0 =C               *                   0 7
*  C  .43  C   *                   COHN~~~~~~-M Ow  a  W                                                                      .8
-  C  WI-.RC  C~~~2 7%. W   It rHs W..  Nt  C  ,   Co  CO,  OCm,                       ON 'Wmm4.CZ
Ce i-a...-  a  -t~~~~Ib ISMO  a                                                .a                                          :  -7
mc cam.                  5..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z c 
e                                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IC  *~~~~  a  CC  -*~~~~~~&Z-  M-   .. 0C, :4 I,  I,  Oa  I  'as t  - Z      *4    *ea           M
e-  rn                                     1%  C~~~~~~~~"u It  W -  W                                                    - - vIC   s   C aS C
C  I                                                                                        -           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-e~~~~~~O                                                                                                     : C(  .0W
e  on.     .   ..aW                                        4.           0a 



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
Unless otheevise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970 and for Moot Recent Eutinate between
1973 ad 1975
-- Brasl has been selected as an objective coutry because of ice sine end ecparable problems of regional inequalIty.
INDIA           1960     I    1951-61 avrage,        lb  1951-60;      /    Ratio of populatio     ncder 15 end 65 end over to labor, force age 15 and over,
Id   Regietared opplica.nta   for work;      In   1962;     If  Registered, not all practicing in the coun try;           /a   IncludIng
nidwives,      lb   1958;      If  1960-62.
19780    /    Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to labor force age IS and over,                /b   1967-68;     /c   Including midwive,
Id 1967.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:        Is   1971:     /b  Ratio of population cedar 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;                 in  1976,
Id   Including nidives         Ia   1969-71  -verge,       If  Population 10 years and ovr
INDONESIA       1970     I    1961-71;     /b   1971;     Ic   Oncludig nidwivas;         Id  Tote1 hospital bedo    i-coplote.
PHILIPPINIES    1970     /a   i  percen.tage of esploymet;         /b  Nat including priv-te voctional schools.
BRAZIL          1970     /a   gno   inalty active populetlon;         lb   Hospital personnel        In   Inside only.
RIO. April 58, 1977
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDPICAMORS
Land Ares (thou in )                                                                        Population par n.rsine peruno - Population divided by nubnhor          f procti-
Total -Total surfer. a    re   coprising lsnd area so nand          waters.                    ing osle sod fna1o greduate nurses,         tLrained  or 'certif-dn
Agri.. N-Mat recent eutinate of egricu1tura1 area used temporsrily or                         nuss     and austliery poroonne1 sitb training or coperifence.
pernanetly for crops, pastures, narbet & bitches garden           or to lhr              Population per hospils1 bed - Population divsded by nuobcr of hosplis1
fal1low                                                                                     beds   -ialsblo in public and private general sod upenialiond hospital
and rehabtlit.tatl     centers; ... (odes  -c-cg bones and estoblvnhnentc
GNP per capita (US$) - iNP pee capita estinates ut current earket prices,                     for cus todial and prev-tine carn.
calcul.atd by- can.ovosinnthod as World Bank Atlas (1973-71 bssis);                      Per capita sanely ofclrn           (7. of recoir-eonLt) - Coopoted fison
1960, 19 70 and 1975 data.                                                                  enercy eqival-nt ot net Iced uoppiies avilable          in counItry per -ap-r
po  dy  aalable ouppilco  copriso do.entic prod-t-c       , tu~ports loss
Pupalation sed vital ststcstirs                                        on~eportc, ad chsnges in otoob; net -oppiivseac lode asival feed, sends,
Popuatio       (mdyr    li-ins   - As of July first:     if nout avaclablo,                   qc-tittos used iv foo        rccsn        adlsscndsrbro,                  eqire-
- aerage of two end-year entiestes; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                nents were estinated by FAO based on phyuiologiccl needs for          -onn1
activity and health cons.idering e-vir-eeta1 t          peprator a, body enights,
Pocaindsity     e         e5a   in -  id-year population per sqoare bilb-             ag  ad son distibutions of popolation, and s1howig 107. for usete
nevetr4(100 hentarosp) ofttS        ra                                                      ath householdlvl
Popolation density-noer souse k beo        agric. land - Coeputed as above fur              Port capta supply'of prot.in (crans pcr day) - Protei          contour of per
agricolvuraIlaned only.                                                                     capita vet supply of food per day; vet supply of food in dfo-md as
above, reqaironntn for oil conilco          estsblished by USDA Eiruonic
Vital statistics                                                                               eaerchServIcesprovide for a nivinn a11uanc              of 60 grain   of
Crude birth rats per thousan.d. averaaen- An...o        IlIve births per thousand             total prtotin per day, and 20 gran       of aninol and pulae prot.vin, of
of old-pear population; ten-year arith-stic        -veragno ending in 1960 end              uhich 10 grays should be aniool protein; thes         standurds arc loser
1970,and fve-per aveage eding in 1975 fornes        recet    ....se.                 baItos         7  irInc0     oa      pro reesd 23 grain    oPavf   a   protein
Crude deat   rac   or    hboead.a      re-Assa          eths per thousand of old-             aan     vegefoe rho       nId, proposed by POi          h    hidWrdPn
yeee populetion, ~~~ten-year eritlnetic  -veragee ending in 1960 and 1970 and          Survey.
rive-pea  average ending Lv 1975 fo   ser recent es tinste.                         Pe   aiauoesspl                rneisal and pnIon - Protrais inpply of food
Infest orra licy rate I/thou) -Annual deaths         finfants under one year                  derived Iro aE    n     adptusi         gan.prdy
of age per thousan.d lIve births.                                                        Sooth ra.te i/thou)   Aees [.4 - Annual deaths per thb.nand in agr group
Life espectancv at birth (pro) - Average nunber of pears of life           eas                1-4 years, to rhcldreo is thi      age group, suggested    asa      nia     or  f
ing at birth, usually five-your       cer-g-c ending in 1960, 1970 and                      -al-tritin..
1975fur d-eelpiog c..ontriesl.
Gr..ss roseoductics rate - Av era ge nbnhr of liceda-gh tars aune-nill                      Edu...ti..
hear in, hoe. norol reproduction perio       i  she vee      ene   peeset ago-           Adiasted enrolment ratio - prinary school - Enru11uont of all ag-na
prfcfriiytt       es    suly-lv-ea              -rges ending.     160                percentage of privry school-age popolarc-n, inclodve         chcidr-    aged
1970 end 1975 for develo,ping cootriecbilpar                                                             u   ajs    edfordifferent lengths of priosr. r.d-ctc-,
Popalatios groth rar      (7)-ua        - _Conpond anulgroth rates of esd-                    fur   outrie      wIth  stu rroa  educatio,   enrols etvy vicd 1 00
ps population for    1950-60., 196O-70 and 1970-75.                                      uince non   popils ore hbol or above the official urhool ago.
Poultion groath rt      (7)-ubn-Cospated like groth rate of total                        Adlcsted erl        netetn-      onodary school - Coopotda          oos
population; diffsret df-cittuen of orb anrense say affect voepara-                          secodary education reqoiren at leat four yearn of approvd peccay
bclity .7 data amng c..ustr Ies.                                                            i-trrucion; pr-vd- general,        -ocac-na    or teaher iracecog
irbas population_(7. of coral) - gatin of urban to total popoSatios                            otrcie        fur pupils of 12 to 17 years fi age; correpc-dev-
different defisitlon     of urban smu- nay effect      -oparblilty of data                  ccone    sngera     lly   ecldd.
_ongvrootI_ enearn of schoolieg pr-ided (first and secnd levels) - Totl1 yearn of
Age   tI.L pfre (Percent) - Children (S-I4 year)..        eie-g       (15-ib years),          schoolc-g; at secodary level,: vctional intutinny be par-
years s6sdy.     ever)aspercenta-ges of ed-ypese popultion                     t,ily ir c-pletnely sloded
Age dependenc     ato- hti       ofppltion under 15ad 65             n    !vr t             oainlerluo              (7.  o  eonay         Voa     Ioa  "Iisulcti   s
those of ages 15 thr-cgh 64.                                                               inclue technical, ind-sirio1cc other priaooch operte
iconoic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end b5 and evr                      indepesdcetly or so departoesnt     of -or..ndoryistotnn
in the labor force iv age g roup of      5-b 6  osro.                                    Aduolt literacy ratc (7)       itorare sdo1s (ableto road and oto)           an
Painl   planning - acceytror    (-umoltin-. thou) - C ...lar...e Iobe t      of               Pe rcentage of total adlt populatio       aged IS year    and over
acceptor   of birth-conrol devices under        -apice   of national faty
planning p,rugai   ucc icption.                                                          Hoo-ing
Famly     lniganr           7  IL inarriod c-v) - Perceotagen of earned                    Persons.per rune (ucben) - A-ergn       -ober of persoc      per rune i
annen of child-bearing age ((-4Lb years) who us         birth-contro    devices            ucepid c_nenti..ol duelling, si          urbuno-e   , das11logs novlode
tc ci    .oreced .unce  in sane age group.                                                 nun-p raen Istructir_       and unoccu pi ed parts.
Occu..pied dueicoas, without piped eater (7. - Occupied convetional
inpiovoent                                                                                   doelligS' inura       and rura   areas without inside or outide piped
Total labr farir (housand)- ELc..onically arrive persons, including                  eater fac ilities as porcentage o       l   ccupied daellcvgn.
aree d forces and   seep1yd hot secluding chouewve,            tdenti, eta.,             Acceus en electricIty (7. of all deelic-os) - Co-neni ti..a deellisgu
de  aIc L In    aiu     coant'rie   areI nt coparebIe                                    withe     triyin        ivg q-trers as ycrc.on        of total dashllo.gsi
Labor fo rce ivauricltror (7.      - Agricultural   labor forc    (in faming,                urbansd ruralaes
forestry, hasting ad fishing) anpretg               ftotal labor force.                  ina    uliescnetdt                electricity (7.  - Coeputed as above for
iecod(7cIflbrfre          - Oseopnyod se uau aly def ined as                        rIa     dulirg     ony.
pean .he are able and willing to tub         o,oa       fajb vs
g-in    day, r. eaend nor of ajob, and seeking ann ,for          specified               Cn-opt-In
oinnperid nout e-eding one wek; say not he coparable botun-                         Radio receiver    (prr thou yap) - All types of receiv--        for radio broad-
data   e.,e  opiopen     ofiesatistics,sipesm                s    oplur                    niesdrciesa               cnctrsen andc- years whnrgstaino
useepinynent insaaco.                                                                      radio cots was in effect'; dora for recent ynors nay not bknuonpar..ble
s:vceeso-L       rle    abolished IIcencc.S
Lacen Distriboti.o     - P-rvovige of peil.eanico (bcth is vaub sod                        Pa_unour cors (pr thai paP) - Pani.engu- cars vaoyrsnv votor cars
hind) frheceive,d b.y richest 57., richest 207., porarvo  207., and punrontcotn                     les    ha   eight Pccov-, enciodev ahbaiseve, heerens and
LO.o  oshods                                                                        elit_ry vhcles
Electric-tv (huh/yr eer cap) - Anv...l c-n-cpti-s of industrial, von-
Distribatio of land Isvn     sp-Pecnasof lie d owned bpyelbii                                veria ,hpblitad piay                 rliya        iiatbo           e    aia
10. and poorest 107. of land cave rn..nr                                                          i   baedonprdut         .io  data  aithoct allowance fur I. nies   _
grids hit    llowing fur iopor     ad eports of ecle,tic ivy.
Health and Sriio                                                                           eio,riot (he,/yr per cap) - Pr caIta ac.. I....u.vptiun ce bilogr-n
Population, per physicc-n - Popu!lattu     di.ided.by cueher of prac      ,ic fg             e-timtd iron domestic productio         plus net imports of sewpr-nt.
phycici..s qualified feom         . I sonica   eolatuiverst y level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
BCON0MC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975 i UsS 190
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76                                                   ANBUAL RATE OF GROTH N. onrtant prices)
USS Bln.        6                                     1960/61-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices            82.8       100.0                                          3.8                3.7                2.6
Gross Domestic Investment       -I6.7       20.1
Gross National Saving           16.0        19.3
Current Account Balance        -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5        -1.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
USt Bin.    B                        Mile      9             1St    % Of National Average
Agriculture                     24.5            46.6               130.0    72.1           188            64
Industry                        11.8            22.3                20.2    11.2           582           199
Services                        16.31.1                              0.2    16.7           542           186
Total/average                   52.6           100.0               180.4   100.0           292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                     Central Government
Tis. ~Bin             %of GDP                       oR.MTf GDP
1975/76       1975/76  1973/74-1975/76               1975              /76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                 133.34        18.5          16.7                      79.11         11.0         9.8
Current Xxpenditures             118.77        16.5          15                       70.01           9.7         8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit           14.57         2.0          1.4                       9.06           1.3         1.0
Capital Expenditures 2/           54-27         7.5           6.2                     40-75           5.6         4.6
External Assistance (net)         13.89         1.9          1.3                       13.89          1.9         1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES               1965/66     XL72      1972/73   1973/74    1974/75   1975/76     September 1975   September 1976
(Billion Re outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    61.4      122.4      142.2     169.1      187.2     213.6          199.0            238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             40.8       69.o      82.5       92.9      102.6     108.5         112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector            28.1       64.4      76.0       90.1      109.5     134.2          106.0            143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1976     January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        24.0       26.4       27.9      27.1      26.2       27.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      188.4      207.1     254.2     313.0      302.8         290.0             320.5
Annual peroentage changes in:
Wholesale Prime Index                     7.7        4.0       9.9       22.7      23.1                                       10.5 fl
Bank Credit to Public Sector             12.9       21.3      19.6       12.6      10.4        5.7                            4.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector            12.8       13.6      18.0       18.5      21.5       22.5                           24.6
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, oalculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of CNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and Statee have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
_f   Net bank credit to Government Sector.
S/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECON0tI1C DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                ANNEX i
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1273/74          25/76                1976/77             MCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
CUSS lMillion)                                                 UIS 8{n. 
Esports of Goodo                   3,239        4,174       4,555        5,400               Sugar                     342         9
Imports of Goods                 -3,971       -5,794       -6,085       -5,850              Jute manufactures          317         8
Trade Balanoe                     - 732       -1,620       -1,530         -450              Tea             V          249         6
NFS (net)  i/                       n.a.        n.s...       n.a.        n.e.                Cotton Textiles           413         10
Iron Ore                  206          5
Resource Gap                        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.               Engineering Goods          391        10
Others                  2.071         S2
Interest Payments (net)    i,     - 233        - 260        - 250        - 280              Total                    3,989       100
Other Factor Payments (net)         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.s.
Net Trarwfere j/                    n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.h
Balanoe on Current Accounts         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                EXTERNL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1976
USS Billion
Official Aid
Disbursements                  1,249        1,766       2,326       2,050               Repayable in foreign currency         12.3
Amortisation                   - 459        - 519       - 516       - 560                Repayable through axport of goods     0.7
Transactions with IMF                 75          515         205       - 565               Total Outstanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other Items                      205           80         559       1,100
FDMBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77      15.5  percent
Increaae in Reservee (-)           -105           38        - 794      -1.495
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,416        1,378       2,172       3,667               ITRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1976   (USS Iln.)
Net Reserves (end year)            1,341         783        1,332       3,202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed          452.7     3208.4
Imports                              720        1,451       1,417       1,625               Undiebured                         510.3     1140.5
of whioh: Petroleum               719        1,451       1,417       1,625               Outstanding including
Exports                               20           26          41         n.a.              Undiebursed                        963.0     4348.9
of whioh: Petroleum                16           17          22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE 2/
Prior to mid-Deoember 1971        sS81.00  = Re 7.5                                          After end June 1972   :   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  = USSO.133533                                      Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to             USS1.00  = Re 7.27927                                                 approx. USS1.00 - Ne.   8.80475
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00  = US$O.137576                                                approx. Rs 1.00 = US$   0. 113575
1/ Estimated.
i/ Included with 'All other Items'.
j/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
t/ Including garments.
j   Amortization and interest payments (excluding ILF transaotions) as a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                 US$ Million-/
Credit No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                      (Net of Ca..cellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                     1,032.5
42 Credits fully disbursed                                             2,271.9
614-IN         1969   India      Tarai Seeds                     13.0     -            3.8
203-IN         1970   India      Punjab Agricultural Credit       -        27.5        8.1
226-IN         1971   India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -         24.4        2.0
242-IN         1971   India      Power Transmission II            -        75.0        7.9
250-IN         1971   India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit   -        35.0        5.3
264-IN         1971   India       Cochin II Fertilizer            -        20.0        0.9
267-IN         1971   India      Wheat Storage                    -         5.0        3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI       Industry DFC IX                59.0     -            2.3
278-IN         1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit       -       40.0         1.9
294-IN         1972   India      Bihar Agricultural Markets       -       14.0        11.3
312-IN         1972   India      Population                       -       21.2         9.1
342-IN         1972   India      Education                        -       12.0        11.3
356-IN         1972   India      IDBI                                     25.0        15.4
377-IN         1973   India      Power Transmission III           -       85.0        35.0
378-IN         1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets      -        8.0         7.3
902-IN         1973   ICICI       Industry DFC X                 70.0     -            9.6
390-IN         1973   India      Bombay Water Supply              -       55.0        40.3
392-IN         1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.   -       38.0        13.5
403-IN         1973   India      Telecommunications V             -       80.0        19.2
427-IN         1973   India      Calcutta Urban Development       -       35.0        15.8
440-IN         1973   India      Bihar Agricultural Credit        -        32.0       18.5
456-IN         1974   India      HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0        11.7
481-IN         1974   India      Trombay IV                       -       50.0        24.6
1011-IN         1974   India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD         52.0     -           41.9
482-IN         1974   India      Karnataka Dairy                  -       30.0        29.8
502-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Canal CAD              -       83.0        58.2
520-IN         1974   India       Sindri Fertilizer               -       91.0        37.5
521-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Dairy                  -       27.7        27.4
522-IN         1974   India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy             -       16.4        16.1
526-IN         1975   India      Drought Prone Areas              -        35.0       30.2
1079-IN         1975   India       IFFCO Fertilizer              109.0     -           90.4
1097-IN         1975   India       Industry DFC XI               100.0     -           67.3
532-IN         1975   India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation      -        45.0       35.1
540-IN         1975   India      ARC Credit                       -        75.0       37.6
541-IN         1975   India      West Bengal Agrc. Dev.           -        34.0       32.0
562-IN         1975   India       Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD    -        24.0       21.5
572-IN         1975   India      Rural Electrification            -        57.0       55.9
582-IN         1975   India      Railways XIII                    -       110.0       50.0
585-IN         1975   India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply       -        40.0       40.0
598-IN         1975   India       Fertilizer Industry             -       105.0       98.0
604-IN         1975   India      Power Transmission IV            -       150.0      150.0
609-IN         1975   India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -         4.0        4.0
610-IN         1976   India       Integrated Cotton Development   -        18.0       18.0
616-IN         1976   India       Industrial Imports XI           -       200.0        8.0
1251-IN(TW)     1976   India       Andhra Pradesh Irrigation     145.0      -         145.0
1260-IN         1976   India       IDBI II                        40.0      -          40.0
1273-IN         1976   India       National Seed                  25.0      -          25.0
1313-IN         1976   India       Telecommunications VI          80.0      -          61.8
1335-IN         1976   India       Bombay Urban Transport         25.0      -          25.0
Total                                                       1,750,5   4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                    782.6      25.9
Total now outstanding                                         967.9  4,086.2
Amount Sold                              111.5
of which has been repaid             111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                967.9   4,086.2
Total undisbursed                                              512.1  1,012.2    1,524.3
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                            Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                            Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9        -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4       -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.7       0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8       1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0      0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6      2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1      3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                         6.6      -         6.6
TOTAL                           49.6      8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                             6.0      1.6       7.6
Repaid                          12.4       -       12.4
Cancelled                       6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                        25.0      6.5      31.5
Undisbursed                     5.6       -         5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,524 million as of March 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to com-
mitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902     Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097    Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14. 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
All equipment for Power Transmission III has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri project plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date., June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (RaJasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Raiasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Twelve states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal]
and three more have applied for participation. The project got off to a slow
start, due principally to the need to adapt specifications and tender documents
to international competitive bidding procedures, but these problems have been
overcome. As of March 31, 1977, contracts with a total value of US$45.6
million had been or were about to be awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1313    Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in
progress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project
are under way.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of 1st April     ; Effective Date:  July 1, 1977
(expected) Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1, 1977
(expected); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 22, 1977 (expected); Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected)
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Cr. No. 685     Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) and banks for on-lending to farmers for on-
farm investments.
Amount:              US$200.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:     GOI to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less
0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to
15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.75% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
ARDC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum for minor
irrigation schemes (including on-farm development);
(b) Annual interest rate of 8.0% minimum for diver-
sified lending;
(c) Installment repayments to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(d) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans
up to 90% of individual loans.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Minor irrigation:
(i) annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(ii)  optional initial evaluation fee may be
charged in the amount of 0.5% of the cost
of the project investment;
(iii) downpayment required would be at least
10%; for small farmers the downpayment
required would be 5%; 1/
(iv)  repayment period for pumpsets to be a
maximum of 7 years;
(v) repayment period for tubewells to be a
maximum of 9 years except for small farmers
who could be given up to 15 years to repay
minor irrigation loans other than for pump-
sets;
(vi)  technical standards, in particular well
spacing criteria, as laid down by ARDC to
be observed.
(b) Diversified lending:
(i) annual interest rate of 11% minimum;
(ii)  optional initial evaluation fee may be
charged in the amount of 0.5% of the cost
of the project investment;
(iii) downpayment to be at least 10% except for
small farmers who would need at least 5%
down; 1/
(iv)  repayment period up to 15 years including
grace period;
Farmers having an annual income of Rs 3,500 or more would be required
to pay 15% down; small farmers would be defined as those having an annual
income not exceeding Rs 2,000 at 1972 prices.



ANNEX III
Page 3
(v) no loans to be given for tractors, markets or
storage investments without prior IDA approval;
(vi)  refinance of lending schemes other than minor
irrigation having total investment costs of more
than US$0.5 million to be approved by IDA.
(c) General:
(i) ARDC would specify security arrangements to
apply to lending to farmers;
(ii)  ARDC to refinance only sound subprojects which
are financially viable (15% financial rate of
return, minimum), and are backed with satis-
factory technical and administrative manage-
ment.
Project
Description:      The purpose of the project is to support a two-year ARDC
program of lending to farmers and an intensive training
effort primarily for the staff of land development banks
(LDB). Lending under the project would be mainly for
minor irrigation, but credit for development of other
on-farm activities such as dairying, poultry raising,
and sericulture would be provided.
Estimated Cost:                                           (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign  Total
Minor Irrigation                 385.3   51.5    436.8
Diversified Lending              122.7   21.5    144.2
LDB Training and Studies           2.0    -        2.0
Total Project Costs           510.0   73.0    583.0
Financing Plan:                                          (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                       127.0   73.0    200.0
Local Financing:
GOI                           1.0    -        1.0
ARDC                        289.3    -      289.3
Banks                        54.8    -       54.8
Farmers                      37.9    -       37.9
Total                  510.0   73.0    583.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated                            FY78       FY79        FY80
Disbursements                     Amount     Amount      Amount
Annual           60.0       95.0       45.0
Cumulative       60.0      155.0      200.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      The procurement of investment items (mainly tubewells
and pumpsets) would be through normal local commercial
channels by individual farmers according to their
choice. Capital equipment orders would be difficult
and costly to group for centralized procurement to
attract international competitive bidding. Dugwells
would be made by the farmers themselves and tubewells
would be contracted directly by the farmer with a local
well driller. Competitive bidding would not be practical.
Rate of Return:      The overall economic rate of return would be about 32%.
Appraisal
Report:           No. 1520-IN dated May 12, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND ARDC CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Several months during 1976.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
ARDC
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of first mission to consider the project
July, 1976 and September 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1, 1976
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 25, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1, 1977.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
none
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) ARDC would apply agreed regulations for determining
eligibility of LDBs to receive refinance (para 45);
(b) ARDC, in conjunction with RBI, would carry out by
March 31, 1978 a study of interest spreads with
particular reference to the needs of LDB (para.
47);



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(c) ARDC would by December 31, 1977 establish a Project
Evaluation Task Unit satisfactory to IDA and pro-
vide all regional offices with an agricultural
economist (para 48); and
(d) ARDC would carry out a study by December 31, 1978
of groundwater problem areas to provide more ac-
curate data on the extent of the areas involved
and of the effect of continued minor irrigation
investments in those areas (para 50).



1-60 12630
_.-       _7~                   _             J;;                  ,>I N D I AERuOY 1977
Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project
AFGHANISTAN   )   C-                          GENERALIZED OCCURRENCE OF GROUNDWATER, RAINFALL AND EVAPORATION
'         an Ks <;37k               F- -- TmOlimodM.tkr eelpe
i,           \>                     lM  -,nio-n us 07eld
s_.f             t\\\/<<~~~~~~' (N5 HIACnn$ -             t 4779 Frroinfo 7zr. nmereis
~~~~~~~~~~ KPvAEs      KISTN\ ~-,-3R ~~\. *79tD 97Znu7 m-7097777  .ro9 ,ar7777S
'-7
PAKISTAN -r,                                                  T.-, -r.nusdn_.es
/       -       |.>\  m1; iw<      -.                       - S
A >a7boon  /     171                       NEPAL                  k -X.piT -    -nNf
;F~~~~~~~~~~~~             '-N.          -        - -J 
.X  >1   / < 0 *%577.                                    I
PBHAOSHAL%
.      '-,1-(
7>   '                                          ir"  _,
-                  \' --A%    J  BANI LANKA 
--7'  t P  / 
I"' y~>  -y  7 \~K(7~$4~     c-'~'\x>.,        '~   BURMA
990-  MAW)As%JR                           ~~~~Bay
Arob,cn~~~~~~~~~~ I 
'I, "174                        '99 I  799~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I  509



