Report No 1520-IN
Second Agricultural Ref inanced Development
Corporation Credit Project India
May 12, 1977 V
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                             FILE  Cpy
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their otficial duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    =   Rs 9.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACD        -       Agricultural Credit Department (RBI)
APC        -       Agriculture Projects Course
ADB        -       Agricultural Development Branches
ARDC       -       Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
ARDC I     -       First Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Credit Project
BTC        -       Bankers Training College
CAB        -       College of Agricultural Banking, Poona
CB         -       Commercial Banks
CCAS       -       Coordination Committee for Agricultural Surveys and
Studies
CGWB       -       Central Groundwater Board
DCCB       -       District Central Cooperative Banks
FSS        -       Farmers' Service Societies
GOI        -       Government of India
HYV        -       High Yielding Varieties
LDB        -       Land Development Banks (Generic term for all
SLDB and PLDB whether operating on a fed-
erated or unitary system)
NIBM       -       National Institute of Bank Management
PCR        -       Project Completion Report
PCS        -       Primary Cooperative Societies
PLDB       -       Primary Land Development Banks
PPA        -       Project Preparation and Appraisal Course
RBI        -       Reserve Bank of India
RRB        -       Regional Rural Banks
SCB        -       State Cooperative Banks
SFDA       -       Small Farmers Development Agencies
SLDB       -       State Land Development Banks
CROPPING SEASONS
4                         Kharif  -  June to September
Rabi    -  October to February
Summer - March to May
FISCAL YEAR
ARDC    -  July I to June 30
GOI     -  April 1 to March 31
1/   Until September 25, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1.00 to Rs 9.00, which was the short term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................... i - v
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................1.................. 
II.   BACKGROUND ........................ .                           1
A.   The Agricultural Sector .........................   1
B.   Agricultural Credit and Agricultural Credit
Institutions ...........                              3
III.   PERFORMANCE OF BANK GROUP FINANCED AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECTS IN INDIA .............................    8
IV.   THE PROJECT .....................................  11
A.   General .....................................   11
B.   Detailed Features ...............................  11
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .... .....................  15
A.   Cost Estimates ..................................   15
B.   Proposed Financing    ..............................  16
C.   Procurement .....................................   16
D.   Disbursement ....................................  17
VI.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND LENDING ARRANGEMENTS ........  17
A.   Organization ........................................  17
B.   Lending Arrangements .....        .......................  18
C.   Accounts and Audit ......       ........................  21
D.   Lending to Small Farmers and in Lesser
Developed States ....... . ..     ........ .......  21
E.   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ....        ........  22
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO PROJECT BENEFICIARIES ....         ...............  23
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION            ...................  25
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....         ...........  27
Schedule A - Groundwater Utilization - Districts Containing
Intensively Developed and/or Potential Problem Areas
Schedule B - Criteria for Spacing a-cxd Density of Wells
Schedule C -  Project Lending Terms and Conditions
Schedule D - Small Farmer Definitior£
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
I    Bank Group Projects Financed through ARDC
Table 1 - Summary of Bank Group Projects Financed through ARDC
Table 2 - Summary of Results from ARDC Evaluation Studies
Table 3 - Selected Financial and Economic Indicators from
Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project (191-IN) PCR
Table 4 - Preliminary Results from Farm Benefit Survey
in Andhra Pradesh
2    Groundwater and Minor Irrigation
Table 1 - Surface Water Resources - Estimated Runoff
Table 2 - Estimated Groundwater Availability and Utilization - 1973/74
Table 3 - Net Area Irrigated by Sources - 1970/71
Table 4 - State Groundwater Organization Staffing - November, 1976
Table 5 - Irrigation Wells - Anticipated Achievement as at June 30,
1974
Table 6 - Villages Electrified as at March 31, 1974
3    Cooperative Banks, Cooperative Land Development Banks and Commercial
Banks
Appendix 1 - Summary of the Main Recommendations of the Committee
on Integration of Cooperative Credit Institutions
Appendix 2 - Summary of the Recommendations of the Talwar Committee
Appendix 3 - Review of the Status of Agricultural Credit and
Agricultural Credit Institutions on a State-by-
State Basis
Appendix 4 - Interest Rates in India
Table 1 - State Cooperative Banks - Summary of Overdues (1971/72
to 1975/76)
Table 2 - State Land Development Banks and Primary Societies -
Summary of Overdues (1971/72 to 1975/76)
4    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Table 1 - Average Borrowing and Lending Rates (1963/64 to 1975/76)
Table 2 - Analysis of Interest Rate Structure
Table 3 - Board of Directors
Table 4 - Projected Staff Estimates - 1976/80
Table 5 - Organization Chart
Table 6 - Schemes Under Consideration as at September 30, 1976
Table 7 - Purposewise Disbursements since Inception
Table 8 - Local Resources Mobilization
Table 9 - ARDC Condensed Statement of Income and Expenditure -
1971/72 - 1980/81
Table 10- ARDC Condensed Balance Sheets - 1971/72 - 1980/81
Table 11- ARDC Cash Flow - 1972/73 - 1980/81
Table 12- Growth since Inception



-3-
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
5    Diversified Lending in Agriculture
Table 1 - Index Numbers of Area, Productivity and Production -
1949/50 - 1975/76
Table 2 - Progress of Agricultural Programs - 1971/72 - 1975/76
Table 3 - Fertilizer Consumption in India
Table 4 - Growth Rate of Production of 38 Major Crops - 1950/51 -
1975/76
6    Training
Table 1 - Training of Senior and Middle Level Officers under
ARDC I
Table 2 - Projected Training of Senior and Middle Level Officers
Table 3 - Estimated Training Cost - Project Period 1978 and 1979
(calendar)
7    Small Farmers Development Agencies
8    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
Appendix 1 - On-going Agricultural Surveys
Appendix 2 - End-of-Scheme Reports
9    Financial Analysis
Table 1 - Minor Irrigation Models:  Cropping Patterns
Table 2 - Minor Irrigation Models:  Crop Budgets for one ha
Table 3 - Minor Irrigation Models:  Income Statement
Table 4 - Minor Irrigation Models:  Cash Flow Projections
Table 5 - Model 6:  Coconut (without irrigation) 0.5 ha
Table 6 - Model 7:  Dairy (2 cross-bred cows)
Table 7 - Model 8:  Poultry (1,000 layers)
Table 8 - Model 9:  11 m. Mechanized Fishing Vessel
Table 9 - Model 10: Mechanized Canoe
Table 10- Financial Rate of Return Sensitivity Tests
10    Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Rates of Return
Table 2 - Economic Rate of Return Sensitivity Tests
Table 3 - Financial and Economic Prices
11    Schedule of IDA Estimated Disbursements
12   ARDC Lending Program
Table 1 - Estimated Project Lending Program
Table 2 - ARDC Total Estimated Disbursements - 1977/78 and
1978/79
Table 3 - Indicative Cost Estimates
MAP
IBRD 12630 Generalized Occurrence of Groundwater, Rainfall and Evaporation






INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since 1969, the Bank and IDA have financed 25 projects in India
which involve, in one degree or another, the provision of agricultural credit.
The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) has been a key
agency in all these operations. Twelve projects were solely agricultural
credit operations; of these, eleven supported credit programs in individual
States and one was a general line of credit to ARDC (ARDC I). Through the
twelve agricultural credit projects ARDC has had access to some US$429 M of
Bank Group lending over the last eight years. Of this, it has utilized so
far US$287 M (67%).
ii.       The institutional developments sponsored under the State oriented
projects have strengthened ARDC, Land Development Banks (LDB), and State
Groundwater Boards. These improvements were such that in 1975 IDA decided
that a line of credit could be provided by IDA to ARDC in which field level
appraisal, carried out by IDA in the case of the State projects, could be
undertaken by ARDC itself. Credit 540-IN for US$75 M financed the ARDC I
project and became effective in August 1975. Project costs totalled US$168.5
M. Of this credit, US$69 M (92%) was allocated for minor irrigation, US$5 M
(6%) for diversified agricultural lending, and US$1 M (2%) for training and
studies. Disbursements, as of December 31, 1976, amounted to US$31.2 M or
100% of appraisal estimates. Projections, based on ARDC commitments, indicate
that Credit 540-IN will be fully disbursed by June 30, 1977 (six months ahead
of the current Closing Date).
iii.      The perennial problem plaguing medium and long term credit objec-
tives in India is excessive LDB overdues the level of which varies from State
to State. In some States they persist at high levels, for example, about 59%
in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh. Agreement was reached between ARDC and
IDA during negotiations of ARDC I credit that a system of gearing the issuance
of special debentures to recovery performance would be introduced. This was
implemented by ARDC as of June 1975, and applied later by the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) to ordinary debentures. The gearing formula, the objective of
which was to achieve a minimum standard level of recoveries, would also apply
to the proposed project.
iv.       Also under ARDC I, GOI agreed to establish a committee to examine
the desirability of integrating the short term and long term activities of
the cooperative credit structure. The Committee on Integration of Cooperative
Institutions concluded that there is inadequate short term credit support for
investment credit granted by LDB and that this results in investments being
under-productive. Conversely, development credit has not always been forth-
coming in areas where short term credit is being provided to farmers. The
Committee has recommended integration, in a phased manner, of the two activ-
ities at all levels of the cooperative credit structure.



- ii -
v.        The project appraised in this report, ARDC II, is a follow-up to
the 1975 ARDC I operation. The increase in the amount of the proposed credit
from US$75 M for ARDC I to US$200 M reflects the substantial increase in ARDC's
projected lending program, which itself is based on past performance and on GOI
National Commission on Agriculture's credit requirement estimates. The project
lays special emphasis on meeting the medium and long term credit needs of small
farmers, and of those States where agricultural development is lagging. The
project would provide finance for the continuation of on-going programs of minor
irrigation development and of other agricultural, livestock, and fisheries de-
velopment activities planned for implementation during the two years beginning
July 1977 and for which a need for refinancing by ARDC is anticipated. Minor
irrigation loans would be made to individual farmers or groups of farmers.
Investments would include open dugwells, pumpsets, and shallow tubewells. On
the basis of experience under ARDC I, about 350,000 minor irrigation units
would be installed under the Project, which would provide either primary or
supplemental irrigation water to a total of about 0.9 M ha. Well construction
would present few problems as, in addition to public sector corporations estab-
lished for this purpose in each State, there are many private contractors
skilled in and equipped for this work. Electric and diesel pumpset supplies
are satisfactory and should pose no constraints to development. Adequate spare
parts and good servicing facilities are available. To obtain maximum benefits
from minor irrigation, some farmers would also be granted loans for on-farm
development such as land leveling, bunding, field drainage, and realignment of
field boundaries. Loans for deep tubewells, each of which would provide water
sufficient for several farmers and command between 20 and 100 ha, would be made
to groups of farmers, cooperatives and State Corporations. Many States have
public sector corporations which own and operate such equipment and sell irri-
gation water to farmers. Similar arrangements would be employed for large
capacity pumps for irrigation from rivers and other surface water sources.
Minimum spacing between wells is essential to avoid over-exploitation of the
resource and interference between individual water users. Guidelines for
minimum spacing and permissible density of wells have been defined and would
be enforced. Finance would not be provided for investments in areas defined
in this project as restricted for further groundwater development unless the
State Government concerned had either instituted controls acceptable to ARDC
over sinking new wells in these areas, or had carried out studies satisfactory
to ARDC that indicated that such areas could be removed from the list of
restricted areas.
vi.       Diversified lending would include a range of agricultural, livestock
and fisheries activities. Many of these activities have been the subject of
State oriented Bank Group financed projects under which technologies and lending
techniques have been proven.
vii.      The project would involve relatively small investments on individ-
ual farms throughout India. As in other ARDC operations financed by the Bank
Group, project beneficiaries would be given freedom of choice in the procure-
ment of equipment, goods and services.
viii.     The north eastern region of India, comprising the States of Assam,
Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal is an area where agricultural development lags.



- iii -
Yet most of the region enjoys moderate to heavy monsoon rains and large areas
of relatively fertile soils, and there is a vast, mainly unexploited, surface
and groundwater resource. ARDC has recognized the need to increase lending
levels in these and other lesser developed States and has participated with
IDA in review of their potentials. Under the project a minimum of 25% of ARDC
refinancing is expected to be disbursed in such States which, in addition to
lesser developed areas in the north eastern region States, include parts of
Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Jammu and Kashmir. Lending in many of those
States would be facilitated by on-going or proposed IDA financed projects
directed at improving agriculture research, extension and other supporting
agricultural institutions.
ix.       Present training arrangements for lending institutions are gener-
ally satisfactory. ARDC is aware that deficiencies have existed, and in
some instances still exist in the training program - mainly the lack of
training materials at the LDB training centers. The project would continue
to expand training programs for: (i) senior and middle level staff of the
main agricultural lending institutions; and (ii) LDB junior staff. Both
activities have been initiated under the ARDC I credit and are proceeding
satisfactorily.
x.        Project costs are estimated at Rs 5,247 M (US$583 M) of which about
US$26 M are duties and taxes. The proposed IDA credit of US$200 M would be
made to GOI on standard terms, and would finance about 34% of total project
costs or about 36% of project costs net of duties and taxes. The credit would
cover the foreign exchange costs of about US$73 M and about US$127 M (25%) of
local costs. About 50% of total project costs would be provided by ARDC and
GOI, 9% by participating banks, and 7% by borrowers. A Subsidiary Agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, would be executed between GOI and ARDC, under which GOI
would make: (i) US$1 M of the IDA proceeds available to ARDC, as a grant for
staff training, and for a groundwater survey; and (ii) US$199 M available to
ARDC, repayable partly over 9 years at 6.75% and partly over 15 years at 7.25%
(with 0.25% rebate for prompt repayments of principal and interest) depending
upon the repayment period of ARDC refinance to participating banks. GOI would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
xi.       Cost estimates are based on the ARDC indicative lending program for
the period 1977/78 to 1978/79 which is drawn from estimates of agricultural
investments requiring ARDC refinance, prepared for the various States. Ad-
justments have been made for finance provided under on-going IDA projects.
Estimates are expressed in current prices and incorporate a price increase
contingency at an annual rate of 7% in accordance with Bank estimates of
future price movements in India.
xii.      The IDA disbursements would be made against ARDC certified state-
ments of loans made by participating banks and refinanced by ARDC, and of
expenditures on training, and the groundwater survey. Disbursements would
be 55% of ARDC refinance for minor irrigation and diversified agricultural
lending (excluding special categories such as tractors, energization of pump-
sets, and forestry schemes which would be financed wholly from ARDC own re-
sources), and 50% of the cost of training and survey. Final beneficiaries



- iv -
would be individual or groups of farmers and fishermen, cooperatives and
public and private sector companies and corporations. Emphasis would be given
to small farmers who would receive at least 50%, in terms of amount, of loans
made under the project, and to States where agricultural development is lagging.
xiii.     ARDC would have primary responsibility for carrying out the project.
Through its refinancing of participating banks, it would control the flow of
project funds and contribute to the sound development of agricultural credit
institutions throughout India. ARDC would refinance, by way of loans or pur-
chase of special debentures, up to 90% of individual loans issued by partici-
pating LDB, commercial banks (CB) and State Cooperative Banks (SCB). Parti-
cipating banks would compete for project business: there would be no specific
allocations of funds between them. To be eligible to participate, LDB would
have to meet the overdues criteria (para iii), and SCB would have to have a
recovery rate of not less than 75% of demand. All CB, which are regulated
by RBI, would be eligible.
xiv.      The ARDC lending program is implemented through a large number of
area schemes. Under each scheme, credit is provided for one particular type
of investment, for example, pumpsets or dairy cattle, within a compact area.
Initiation and formulation of a scheme is normally by local banks in coopera-
tion with State Government agencies. In lesser developed States, however,
ARDC assists with scheme formulation and preparation. Schemes are submitted
to ARDC for appraisal. Appraisal covers not only technical and financial
feasibility, but also an assessment of the administrative and organizational
capacity of supporting institutions, including extension, input supply and
seasonal credit.
xv.       ARDC performance under the ARDC I project has been consistently
good as has been the case in the other Bank/IDA financed projects in which
it has participated. ARDC has been scrupulous in its adherence to agreements
and undertakings and has been regular in submitting required reports, docu-
ments and accounts.
xvi.      The structure of interest rates in India is considered to be ade-
quate. There is little inter-sectoral distortion: the differentials charged
by institutions lending primarily to agriculture and those lending to industry
are small. To industry the rate is between 11% and 12%. Commercial bank
lending rates for agricultural purposes are about 13% when using their own
funds. Under this project, participating banks, including commercial banks,
would receive funds at minimum annual interest rates of 7.5% for minor irri-
gation and on-farm development, and 8% for diversified agricultural lending.
Final beneficiaries would borrow at minimum rates of 10.5% for minor irriga-
tion and on-farm development, and 11% for other agricultural purposes. Under
the project, ARDC would ensure that interest rates charged on loans would
be sufficient to enable ARDC and participating banks to: (i) cover all
operating expenditures and charges, including taxes (if any), and interest
payments on borrowings; and (ii) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts
and adequate general reserves. While present interest rates are generally
adequate to cover the costs of lending operations, most LDB would benefit
from an increased "spread" to allow continued expansion of operations to



- v -
meet the needs of small farmers, and in the interest of long term financial
viability.
xvii.     Reports from participating banks and field supervisions by ARDC,
termed 'follow-up' studies, are the main source of information on the progress
of ARDC refinanced schemes. During the project period several hundred schemes
per annum would be inspected by ARDC and several thousand beneficiaries visited.
ARDC would improve the efficiency of its scheme supervision through: (i)
clearer guidelines for the selection of schemes for supervision and of bene-
ficiaries for interview; (ii) standardization of data collection; and (iii)
refinement, reduction and timely analysis of data collected.
xviii.    The project's primary economic benefits would be an increase in
agricultural production for domestic consumption and export. At full devel-
opment, the annual value of such increases is estimated at about US$367 M in
terms of 1976 prices. Economic rates of return have been calculated, based
on the experience gained under on-going ARDC schemes. They should be regarded
as indicative since they are only a sample of what might be achieved. The
overall economic return of the project would be about 32%.
xix.       Beyond the realization of substantial benefits arising out of
on-farm investments, the project aims at the continued build-up of stronger
institutions. Strengthening of the ARDC technical units and improvements in
the Corporation's monitoring and evaluation systems should result in better
preparation, appraisal and monitoring of schemes, thus reducing investment
risks. Strengthening of LDB through intensified staff training would sup-
port this. Measures to better control overdues through tying the issuance
of new debentures to recovery performance should lead to further reduction
in LDB overdues and thus increase the availability of funds for investments.
The number of project beneficiaries would be substantial; an estimated 1.0 M
farmers would participate. Incremental annual employment generated by project
investment is estimated at about 175 M man-days. Much of the additional labor
would be supplied by unemployed or underemployed members of beneficiary fam-
ilies. However, a significant part would be provided by hired laborers.
xx.      The main risk in this type of project is inadequate appraisal
and monitoring of schemes, leading to poor performance of some investments.
ARDC experience shows that the risk is slight, and continuing institutional
improvement through this project should further reduce it.
xxi.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$200 M on standard
terms.



k



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In August 1975, an IDA credit (540-IN) for US$75 M, was made to
India's Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). That
credit, which supported a project costing US$168.5 M, is now entirely com-
mitted and expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1977, six months ahead
of schedule. In July 1976, the Government of India (GOI) asked IDA for further
financial assistance to ARDC.
1.02      The project proposed for IDA financing gives special emphasis to
meeting the medium and long term credit needs of small farmers, and to those
States where agricultural development is lagging. The project would be a
follow-up to a number of past and on-going projects in which IDA and ARDC have
participated and which are described in Chapter III and Annex 1.
1.03      This report is based on an application prepared by ARDC and on the
findings of an appraisal mission which visited India in November 1976, consist-
ing of Messrs. R. L. Headworth, C. Helman, G. Slade and R. Van Wagenen (IDA),
and K. Anderson, H. L. Manning and Mac E. Whitsitt (Consultants), W.R. Grawe
(IDA) also contributed to the report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01      India's 610 M population is growing at the rate of about 2.3% per
year and per capita income (US$115 in 1975) at about 1.4%. Agriculture is
the most important sector. It employs about 70% of the population, contributes
about 45% of GNP, and provides a major share of exports. A basic problem of
the economy is the low growth rate in agricultural production, especially
foodgrains, which has been only about 2.3% per annum over the last decade and
about the same as the rate of population increase. Even in normal years, it
is necessary to rely on stock or imports to meet the demand for foodgrains,
and it is only in exceptional growing seasons that there is a surplus of
production.
2.02      Much progress has been made already in increasing the use of
improved technology and expansion of the irrigated area. For example, over
the last five years (1971/72-1975/76), the area planted in high yielding
varieties (HYV) increased by about 70% to some 31 M ha. Fertilizer consump-
tion, which grew rapidly between 1960/61-1973/74 from 294 to 2,839 thousand
tons of nutrients, while declining during 1974/75 to 2,591 thousand tons as a



- 2 -
result of price increases, increased to 2,892 thousand tons in 1975/76 and
is expected to resume its growth in the wake of GOI efforts to stimulate
demand. Between 1971/72-1975/76, the gross irrigated area increased by about
18% to about 45 M ha, of which about 40% is served by groundna_er, much of it
a result of groundwater development financed under ARDC schem2s (Annex 2).
2.03      GOI attributes the highest priority to achievement 5f self-
sufficiency in food. The strategy enunciated for agriculture In the Fifth
Plan, 1974/79, acknowledges that because of the limited scope for bringing
new land into cultivation the greatest part of future increments in food pro-
duction, and of foodgrains in particular, must come from increases in levels
of land productivity. The Plan acknowledges also that a prerequisite for
this is an assured irrigation water supply to:  (i) permit  uiltiple cropping;
rainfall over most of India permits only one assured crop a year; and (ii)
provide supplemental irrigation. in the rainy season; in many s-asons rainfall
is inadequate for optimal produ.ction of the single rainfed crici   Consequently,
the Plan provides for major investments in irrigation both by the public sec-
tor, mostly in major surface irrigation schemes, and by the private sector
in groundwater development though minor irrigation involving idugwells, pump-
sets, and shallow tubewells,  The project appraised in this -egort would
provide support for this latter effort. The groundwater prcgram is parti-
cularly important in that it mobilizes private resources for development and
generally results in a more efficient use of irrigation water than is usually
the case in public sector surface schemes which generally involve heavy sub-
sidies of both capital and operating costs. Also significant is that over
the last 25 years the rate of growth in groundwater based on irrigation has
far exceeded that of surface water schemes reflecting the more difficult
institutional problems associated with public surface water schemes.
2.04      The area irrigated from groundwater resources increased from about
6.5 M ha in 1950, to 9.5 M ha in 1965 and to 17 M ha in 1975, when it compared
with about 27 M ha water surface irrigation.  The sharp rate 3f increase since
1965 has been partly a result of the introduction of high yielding crop varie-
ties (HYV) to India and recognition by farmers and the authorities that
obtaining the full potential from these needed an assured wa-_e- supply. It
is estimated that, at full development, India's groundwater resources could
irrigate over 35 M ha. There is, therefore, considerable sco7e for further
development of this resource although there is wide variation between States
in the extent to which it has so far been developed. States such as Gujarat,
Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu have operated intensive groundwater
development programs for many years and now have exploited at least 50% of
their resources. On the other hand, in many of the poorer States such as
West Bengal, Orissa and Bihar, resources are large and the extent of exploita-
tion very low. In a review of the foodgrain production situation in the
States of the eastern region 1/ which covered the preceding S_ates as well
as the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh, and Assam, the Bank identified consid-
erable scope for groundwater development and, in conjuction with GOI, the
1/   The Eastern Region Foodgrains Production Reviews (972- U; 1173-IN,
1175-IN).



- 3 -
State Governments, and ARDC, has formulated plans for the accelerated devel-
opment of groundwater which would be financed in part under the proposed
project.
2.05      While expanded foodgrain production, and in its pursuit, the
exploitation of groundwater resources, demand the highest priority, there is
a growing need for other and more diversified agricultural development. Such
diversification is important to: (i) better utilize India's diverse climatic
and soil resources; (ii) produce a wider range of foods and raw materials in
the interests of better nutritional standards, for example milk and fish, and
of increased agricultural exports, such as coffee or cashew products; and
(iii) improve income and employment prospects of the rural poor who either
have no or very little land but who can participate in activities such as
poultry and dairying. Diversification would be sponsored under the proposed
project. This would include a wide range of investments in horticulture and
tree crops - coconut, coffee, tea, mango, citrus; livestock - dairy, poultry,
sheep; fisheries - marine and inland, as well as investments in storage facili-
ties, and some farm machinery.
B. Agricultural Credit and Agricultural Credit Institutions
2.06      The great bulk of short term credit, possibly as much as 70%, for
agriculture in India has been provided traditionally by private money lenders,
usually at very high interest rates, and the remainder by cooperative and
commercial banks. In recent years, there has been a significant growth in
institutional credit and the relative importance of private money lenders has
declined. Institutional short term credit for agriculture amounted to about
Rs 11,840 M in 1976 and long and medium term institutional credit to about
Rs 5,250 M.
2.07      Institutional credit for agriculture is provided by cooperative
institutions and commercial banks. The cooperatives, organized on a State
by State basis, comprise two distinct classes of institutions. The short/
medium term credit structure is three-tiered. Consisting of a State Coopera-
tive Bank (SCB), Central Cooperative Banks and Primary Societies, it dis-
burses loans for periods not exceeding five years for seasonal crop inputs
as well as their marketing, and also for other investments in agriculture.
The long term credit structure comprises a State Land Development Bank (SLDB)
which functions through branches or affiliated Primary Land Development Banks
(PLDB) and provides long term loans for periods ranging from 5 years to 15
years, for agricultural development. Since its organization over 70 years
ago, the cooperative system has considerably expanded in some of the States.
However, performance has been variable from State to State and from year to
year. It has been relatively poor in the lesser developed States of the north
eastern region.



2.08      In view of the remaining inadequacies of the cooperative structure,
particularly in the north eastern States, GOI in recent years has sponsored
a multi-agency approach to agricultural credit. Thus, where the cooperative
credit structure is weak and limited in its agricultural lending (e.g. because
of excessive overdues) the commercial banks (CB) have been induced to parti-
cipate and encouraged to open more rural branches. As a consequence, and
with the encouragement of IDA, major progress in agricultural lending has been
recorded by the commercial banking structure in recent years. The Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), refinanced some Rs 710 M for
agricultural lending by the CB in 1975/76 compared with Rs 280 M in 1974/75.
Initially, CB experienced some disadvantages, mostly of a legal and adminis-
trative nature, vis-a-vis the cooperatives. These issues were examined by a
committee (known as the Talwar Committee) headed by a former Chairman of the
State Bank of India. The recommendations of this committee are summarized
in Annex 3, Appendix 2. They have been implemented by about ten States and
in these States CB enjoy the same privileges as cooperative banks in such
matters as exemptions or relaxations in the payment of stamp duty, registration
of charges, as well as priority in claims over charges created on security
offered (para 2.18).
2.09      More recently, with a view to supplementing the resources of coopera-
tives and CB and in particular to meet the credit requirements of small and
marginal farmers, cottage industries, and rural artisans, GOI has started to
establish Regional Rural Banks (RRB) especially in lesser developed areas.
These RRB are expected to combine the operational efficiency of CB and the
intimate local knowledge of the cooperatives. So far, about 30 such RRB have
been set up under the sponsorship of scheduled commercial banks. As RRB are
still fairly new and have yet to prove their capabilities, they would not be
included in the project.
2.10      In Annex 3, Appendix 3, the status of agricultural credit and
agricultural credit institutions is reviewed on a State by State basis. The
review indicates a very wide range of circumstances. Problems that are common
to a number of States are summarized below:
(i) slow progress of the financial and organizational
rehabilitation of cooperative banking institutions -
Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala;
(ii) inadequate number of trained bank personnel and thus
a constraint on expansion - Andhra Pradesh, Bihar;
(iii) State Ordinances that prevent LDB lending other than
for purposes directly connected with land - Gujarat,
Tamil Nadu;
(iv) constraints on commercial bank lending - Kerala,
Gujarat and other States where recommendations of
the Talwar Committee are yet to be implemented
(para 2.18);



- 5 -
(v) out of date land records which constrain loans requiring
security of a land mortgage - Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa;
and
(vi) inadequate agricultural extension services which constrain
the demand for agricultural credit - Assam, Bihar, MIadhya
Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal.
2.11      Progress is being made in resolving the above problems.  Given,
however, the very large numbers of institutions and the complex administra-
tive and legal issues involved, the pace of progress has varied from State
to State. The rehabilitation of cooperative institutions usually involves
better credit and financial discipline and the measures being taken in this
regard are discussed in para 2.15. Training of bank personnel is being fi-
nanced under ARDC I and will also be a component of the proposed Project
(para 4.08). A GOI committee has recommended changes in the security re-
quirements employed by LDB (para 2.12), and IDA is financing a project that
includes updating land records in Orissa. Also, IDA is financing or is
preparing projects that consist primarily of improving extension services
in Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal.
2.12      Under ARDC I, GOI agreed to establish a committee to examine the
desirability of integrating the short term (SCB) and long term (LDB) activi-
ties of the cooperative credit structure. The Committee on Integration of
the Cooperative Credit Institutions concluded that, generally, there is in-
adequate institutional short term credit support for investment credit granted
by LDB and that this results in investments being underproductive. Conversely,
development credit has not always been forthcoming in areas where short term
credit is being provided to farmers. The Committee has recommended integra-
tion, in a phased manner, of the two activities at all levels of the coopera-
tive credit structure. Provisions in the statutes of several LDB that can
lend only against security of land were also identified by the Committee as
preventing LDB from diversifying their lending operations into for example,
financing schemes for dairy development and sheep breeding. The main recom-
mendations of the Committee are summarized in Annex 3, Appendix 1. During
negotiations it was agreed that GOI would continue its on-going discussions
with State Governments with the objective of initiating implementation of
the recommendations of the Committee in at least two States during the proj-
ect period, and would advise IDA of progress through ARDC progress reports.
2.13      Given the complex nature of the problems and the different agro-
economic and political conditions in the various States, a specific deadline
for resolving all the problems affecting agricultural credit would be impos-
sible to set and to enforce. However, during negotiations GOI and ARDC con-
firmed that they would continue their dialogue with individual States on
problems affecting agricultural credit. The objective of such discussions
would be to agree on the major problems and identify a specific action pro-
gram and timetable designed to alleviate constraints over a reasonably short
period. Progress would be recorded in ARDC progress reports.



-6-
Land Development Banks (Annex 3)
2.14      During 1975/76, LDB accounted for about 21% of long and medium
term institutional lending for agriculture in India, and for about 58%
of ARDC refinancing volume. Farmers and State Governments are the main
shareholders of the LDB, which are established under State laws, and are
inspected and their borrowings regulated by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI). The LDB provide both long and medium term credit mostly against
the security of land mortgages. The main sources of State Land Development
Bank (SLDB) funds are: (i) ordinary debentures; and (ii) special debentures.
Issue of ordinary debentures is sanctioned by RBI on the basis of each bank's
need and financial viability, and are available for purchase by individuals,
State Governments, CB, and other institutions, such as the Life Insurance
Corporation of India. Ordinary debentures are guaranteed by the State
Government of the issuing SLDB, are for a fixed term, usually between 5 and
15 years, and bear interest, currently about 6.5%. Special debentures are
purchased by ARDC and the government of the concerned State, and are also
guaranteed by the State Government. They differ, however, in being retired
by annual installments in agreement with ARDC and the financing institutions.
The proportion of total LDB financing through special debentures increased
from 22% in 1971/72 to about 52% in 1974/75 and is expected to increase
further.
2.15      The perennial problem of LDB is overdues 1/.  Levels vary from State
to State, ranging from nil % to 60% at SLDB level and from 3% to 42% at pri-
mary land development bank (PLDB) level. In some States, they persist at
high levels, for example, about 59% in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh
(Annex 3, Table 2). Agreement was reached between ARDC and IDA during nego-
tiations of Credit No. 540-IN (ARDC I) that a formula of gearing the issuance
of special debentures to recovery performance would be introduced. This was
implemented by ARDC as of June 1975, and applied later by RBI to ordinary
debentures.  In accordance with the formula, LDB would be eligible to issue
a percentage of debentures (ordinary and special) issued in previous years
(annual average of last three years, or the previous year, whichever is the
greatest) according to a set sliding scale of recoveries. Under the formula,
an SLDB branch or PLDB would not be eligible for ARDC refinance unless it
had a recovery rate of not less than 40%. Any SLDB branch or PLDB which had
already achieved 75% recovery rate would not be refinanced by ARDC if its
recovery rate fell below 75%, taking into account any State Government in-
jection of equity paid in to reduce overdues (limited to 10%, maximum). At
the same time, any SLDB branch or PLDB which had not achieved 75% would not
be eligible for refinance if its recovery rate was less than tbiat of the
previous year; in other words, the formula does not permit backsliding. In
1/   In India, overdues at the end of the fiscal year are expressed as a
percentage of "demand" (principal and interest falling due during the
year, plus overdues from previous years). Given the greatly varying
criteria used in different countries, it is not possible to compare
India overdue performance with that elsewhere.



FY76, there was an improvement in a number of States, for example, SLDB re-
coveries in West Bengal increased to 100% from 75% in FY75. There are signs
that this improving trend is continuing. Most State Governments, appreciating
the serious effect of high LDB overdues on future agricultural development,
are actively assisting LDB to recover overdues; the results of their efforts
should favorably reflect in LDB accounts for the year ending June 30, 1977.
The objective of the arrangements under ARDC I was to bring all LDB to a
minimum standard level of 75% recovery; these arrangements would continue
until October 31, 1978. After that date, the arrangements are that ARDC would
not refinance any SLDB branch or PLDB if its collection was less than 75% of
demand, of which up to a maximum of 10% could be by way of additional equity
provided by the State Government. However, in some of the lesser developed
States, where recovery progress has been slower than in other States, and
where lending is essentially geared towards the special needs of small farmers,
it may be necessary for the formula to be modified slightly from time to time.
Such modifications, which would be temporary, would be agreed between IDA and
ARDC, provided that such modifications would not detract from achieving the
objective of the criteria to strengthen the rural credit framework.  An RBI/
ARDC committee has been formed to develop common norms for issuance of LDB
debentures; this committee, which is operating satisfactorily, would recommend
to IDA any proposed formula modifications. It was agreed during negotiations
that the arrangements described above for the issuance of both ordinary and
special debentures would apply throughout the duration of the project and that
any modifications would be subject to IDA approval.
2.16      A further problem common to many LDB arises from the practice by
State Governments of seconding State Government officers to head LDB. Often
those officers do not have the necessary training and experience to run an LDB
efficiently. Most staff at this level are seconded from cooperative divisions
of State Governments and are subject to transfer at short notice. These staff
changes, which occur frequently, have an adverse effect upon the efficiency
of LDB. ARDC has requested State Governments to ensure that State staff on
deputation remain with the LDB for at least three years after their training.
During negotiations IDA discussed with GOI and ARDC the possibilities of LDB
drawing up programs for permanent staffing as a condition of obtaining refin-
ance from ARDC; those discussions would be followed up during project super-
visions.
State Cooperative Banks (Annex 3)
2.17      The cooperative credit system is the major source of short term
institutional credit to farmers, providing about Rs 8,875 M during 1975/76.
This was about 52% of total direct institutional lending for agriculture.
The main sources of SCB funds are share capital, deposits, and loans from
RBI. SCB are eligible for ARDC refinancing but received less than 1% of
total ARDC refinancing during 1975/76. As with LDB, the main problem of
SCB is heavy overdues which in 1974/75 ranged from nil% in Haryana to 68%
in Himachal Pradesh. Because of the small amount of refinance made available
to them, ARDC influence over SCB is small. However, to participate in ARDC
schemes, including those to be financed under the proposed project SCB must
have a recovery rate of not less than 75%.



-8-
Commercial Banks 1/ (Annex 3)
2.18      The CB started lending in a modest way for agricultural purposes
in 1969. During the last few years they made significant progress, providing
about 33% of long and medium term direct institutional credit for agriculture
in 1975/76, as well as some short term funds. Contributing to the increased
activity of recent years have been participation in ARDC development schemes
supported by provision of refinance by ARDC, and implementation by some States
of recommendations of the Talwar Committee (para 2.08), that have improved the
competitiveness of CB vis-a-vis LDB by removing some of the costs incurred by
CB borrowers. Ten States have enacted legislation embodying the Talwar rec-
ommendations and draft bills are ready in several others. ARDC is encouraging
early implementation of this legislation in all States, thus, CB now compete
with both LDB and cooperative banks for available business and provide stimuli
for improvement in the agricultural sector as a whole. A growing problem of
CB has been overdues on their agricultural loans. However, CB have been better
able to withstand arrears than LDB due to their diversified and remunerative
lending in other sectors.
III. PERFORMANCE OF BANK GROUP FINANCED AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECTS IN INDIA
3.01      Since 1969, the Bank and IDA have financed 25 projects in India
which involve, in one degree or another, the provision of agricultural credit.
ARDC has been a key agency in all these operations. Twelve projects were
solely agricultural credit operations; of these eleven supported credit
programs in individual States. The success of these State oriented projects
led to IDA financing an India-wise agricultural credit project (ARDC I)
(Credit 540-IN) in 1975 (para 3.03). Through the twelve agricultural credit
projects ARDC has had access to some US$429 M of Bank Group lending over the
last eight years. Of this, it has utilized so far US$287 M or 67%. The in-
dividual projects are listed in Annex 1.
3.02      State Oriented Projects.  Eight of the State oriented agricultural
credit projects are on-going and three have been completed recently. A typical
State agricultural credit project has financed a three to four year lending
program to farmers covering investments mostly in minor irrigation (about 80%
of investments), land leveling, and farm mechanization. Under these projects
particular attention has been paid to strengthening the institutions involved
in project implementation, most importantly the participating LDB (as described
in para 2.14) and the States' groundwater agencies. Each State project has
1/   Nearly all commercial banks are scheduled.  A banking institution can
claim inclusion in the Schedule, provided: (i) it satisfies RBI that
its affairs are not being conducted in a manner detrimental to the
interests of its depositors; and (ii) its paid-up capital and reserves
have an aggregate value of not less than Rs 0.5 million.



- 9 -
required the State Government either to establish a Groundwater Directorate
or to strengthen an existing agency in the interest of ensuring proper use
of groundwater and thereby of project funds provided for minor irrigation.
General preconditions of Bank Group support for the State projects have in-
cluded: (i) participation of a viable LDB with acceptable levels of staff and
financial operations; (ii) satisfactory policies and procedures for lending;
and (iii) adequate support services for participating farmers, especially
agricultural extension, input procurement and distribution, marketing, and
short term production credit. In all the State projects disbursements have
tended to lag behind appraisal estimates because of lower than anticipated
demand for loans for land development, and procurement problems in the case
of farm mechanization. Conversely, disbursements for minor irrigation usually
have been in advance of forecasts. Of the eight on-going project, six are
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1977, and the remaining two by
December 31, 1978 and March 31, 1980 respectively.
3.03      ARDC I.  The institutional developments sponsored under the State
oriented projects have strengthened both ARDC and the LDB. These improvements
were such that in 1975 GOI and IDA decided that a line of credit could be
provided by IDA to ARDC in which field level appraisal, carried out by IDA in
the case of the State projects, could be undertaken by ARDC itself. Credit
540-IN for US$75 M financed the ARDC I project, and became effective in August
1975. Project costs totalled US$168.5 M. Of the IDA credit, US$69 M (92%)
was allocated for minor irrigation, US$5 M (7%) for diversified agricultural
lending, and US$1 M (1%) for training and studies. Disbursements, as at
December 31, 1976, amounted to US$31.2 M, 100% of appraisal estimates. Pro-
jections based on ARDC commitments indicate ARDC should fully disburse Credit
540-IN by June 30, 1977 (six months ahead of the current Closing Date).
About 55% of actual disbursements have been made against loans to small far-
mers, (see para 6.13 and Schedule D), compared with an appraisal target of
50%. Disbursement proportions of about 90% of total lending for minor irri-
gation and 7% for diversified agricultural development are in line with
appraisal estimates. Estimates of individual investments financed under
the project up to October 31, 1976, are shown in the following table:
Dairy
Dugwell &                     Fishing Cattle/  Tree Crop
Dugwells  Pumpset  Tubewells  Pumpsets  Boats  Sheep    Plantings
-------------------- No.                   (ha)---
Lesser
Developed
States      1,550    1,150    4,300       15,900     -        400         137
Other
States        -      19,100    4,200      24,500    194   10,100        1,627
Total         1,550   20,250    8,500       40,400    194   10,500        1,764
A short description of the above types of investment appears in Chapter IV.



- 10 -
The project included some training for LDB staff and this program is progress-
ing satisfactorily (para 4.08). It provided also for a comprehensive study of
the training needs of junior level LDB staff. This was completed and the
training program recommended would be financed under the proposed project.
Importantly, the Committee on Integration of Cooperative Credit Institutions
was established under the project. This Committee and its findings and
recommendations are discussed in para 2.12.
3.04      ARDC performance under the ARDC I project has been consistently
good as has been the case in the other Bank/IDA financed projects in which
it has participated. The Corporation has been scrupulous in its adherence
to agreements and undertakings and has been regular in submitting required
reports, documents, and audited accounts. Full details of ARDC are in
Annex 4.
Economic Impact of IDA Financed ARDC Projects
3.05      Investment in minor irrigation, under State based agricultural
credit projects, began in 1970. However, as it takes farmers about three
to four years to adjust cropping patterns and techniques to optimize returns
from investments in irrigation it was 1974 before a meaningful assessment
of benefits became possible. The first ex-post evaluation of minor irriga-
tion schemes by IDA was in 1975, in the course of preparation of a Project
Completion Report (PCR) for the first State agricultural credit project
(Gujarat, 191-IN). Despite two severe drought years during the project
implementation period resulting in the complete drying of several wells and
reduced water availability in numerous others, estimates of financial rates
of return (FRR) ranged from 12% to 30% for minor irrigation investments, with
economic rates of return for the same investments averaging 28%. These returns
were later confirmed in an audit by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department
(Report No. 1303).
3.06      ARDC itself has recently completed the evaluation of minor irri-
gation investments elsewhere and these indicate FRR ranging between 29% and
over 50%. In addition, a large number of beneficiaries have been inter-
viewed during ARDC monitoring studies, which included a comparison of crop-
ping patterns, inputs and outputs with planned ones. The findings indicate
that most farmers benefit substantially from investments in minor irrigation
and that further investments are justified. During 1970/76 the number of
motorized dugwells and tubewells in India doubled, increasing in number by
about 1.4 M units. Additional data is being gathered by ARDC and LDB and
will be analyzed in the PCR for the nine agricultural credit projects
(including ARDC I) which are scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1978.
Evaluation surveys are already underway for three of these projects and
preliminary results from one of them, Andhra Pradesh, are summarized in
Annex 1, Table 4.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General
4.01      The project would provide finance for the continuation of on-going
programs of minor irrigation development and of other agricultural, livestock,
and fisheries development activities planned for implementation during the
two years beginning July 1977, and for which a need for refinancing by ARDC
is anticipated. Project funds would be channeled through ARDC which would
refinance loans made by participating banks. Final beneficiaries would be
individual or groups of farmers and fishermen, cooperatives, public and pri-
vate sector companies, and corporations. The project would be a follow-up
to ARDC I (para 3.03), and project activities would be a continuation of and
similar to those financed under that project. As under ARDC I and the State
oriented projects, participating banks would develop schemes under which a
single activity, for example, shallow tubewells, fisheries, etc., would be
promoted in a limited physical area in which all necessary support services
would be provided to participants (para 6.07). As under ARDC I, minor irri-
gation development would predominate, and is estimated to utilize about 75%
of project costs which are estimated at US$583 M. The project would also pro-
vide finance, US$1.95 M for the training of agricultural banking staff, and
US$0.05 M for a sample agro-economic survey of tubewells and other groundwater
structures in eastern Uttar Pradesh. As in ARDC I, emphasis would be given to
small farmers who would receive at least 50%, in terms of amount, of loans
made under the project and to States where agricultural development is lagging
and where a minimum of 25% of project funds would be disbursed. Funds would
not be allocated to specific States, but during negotiations ARDC agreed to
continue in its lending operations to support and give priority to other Bank
Group projects, particularly in the lesser developed States.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
4.02      Minor irrigation loans would be made to individual farmers or groups
of farmers. Investments would include open dugwells and shallow tubewells.
Wells would be equipped with either electric or diesel powered pumpsets.
Typically, these would be 3 to 5 hp units for dugwells and shallow tubewells.
The cost of typical installations would be Rs 9,500 for a d-ugwell and pumpset,
and Rs 9,000 for a fully equipped shallow tubewell. Locally constructed
pumping units, such as Persian wheels, would also be financed. The numbers
of each type of investment cannot be estimated accurately at this time and
will depend on individual farmer's preferences and the groundwater environ-
ment. On the basis of experience under ARDC I, however, it would appear that
about 350,000 minor irrigation units would be installed that would provide
either primary or supplemental irrigation water to a total of about 0.9 M
ha. A considerable number of pumpsets are due for replacement during the
next few years and in order to assess the magnitude of such replacements,



- 12 -
ARDC would carry out a survey of probable pumpset replacement requirements
over the next five years and the most appropriate means of financing them,
such data would be available by December 31, 1978. This was agreed during
negotiations. Well construction would present few problems as, in addition to
public sector corporations established for this purpose in each State, there
are many private contractors skilled in and equipped for this work. Electric
and diesel pumpset supplies are satisfactory and should pose no constraints to
development. Adequate spare parts and good servicing facilities are available.
To obtain maximum benefits from minor and surface irrigation, some farmers
would also be granted loans for on-farm developments such as land leveling,
bunding, field drainage, and realignment of field boundaries.
4.03      Participating banks would make, and ARDC would refinance, loans to
State Electricity Boards for spur lines and associated equipment needed to
provide power to areas in which minor irrigation schemes are being developed.
The average cost of step-down transformer, low voltage cable and 11 kv spur
line is estimated at Rs 4,500 per pumpset. During negotiations it was agreed
that ARDC would finance these loans from its own resources. The Rural Electri-
fication Corporation is, in time, expected to take over this type of financing.
4.04      Loans for deep tubewells each of which would provide water suffi-
cient for several farmers and command between 20 and 100 ha would be made
to groups of farmers, cooperatives and State Corporations. The costs of
such an installation are about Rs 150,000. Many States have public sector
corporations that own and operate such equipment and sell irrigation water
to farmers. Similar arrangements would be employed for large capacity
pumps for irrigation from rivers and other surface water sources.
4.05      Areas where the risk of over-exploitation of water resources is
high have been delineated by the GOI Central Groundwater Board (CGWB) and
are listed in Schedule A. Minimum spacing between wells is essential to
avoid over-exploitation of the groundwater resources and interference between
individual water users. Guidelines for minimum spacing and permissible den-
sity of wells are given in Schedule B. These criteria would be applied in the
case of all minor irrigation financed under the project. These restrictions,
however, are not a deterrent to farmers who can use their own resources to
install wells since there is no legislation controlling groundwater exploit-
ation. During negotiations it was agreed that GOI and ARDC would continue to
encourage State Governments to regulate groundwater exploitation by enacting
suitable legislation. Under the project, finance would not be provided
for investments in the Schedule A areas unless the State Government concerned
had either instituted controls acceptable to ARDC over sinking new wells in
these areas, or had carried out studies satisfactory to ARDC that indicated
that such areas could be rescheduled. Under the project, ARDC itself would
carry out a study on a sample basis, under Terms of Reference acceptable to
IDA, of the scheduled areas to refine its knowledge of the groundwater situ-
ation and the potential for minor irrigation investment; such study would be
completed by December 31, 1978. This was agreed during negotiations.



- 13 -
Diversified Lending
4.06      Diversified lending would include a range of horticultural, live-
stock and fisheries activities. Details of these are given in Annex 5. Many
of these activities have been the subject of State oriented Bank Group financed
projects under which technologies and lending techniques have been proven. Ex-
amples are dairy development projects (Credit 482, 521 and 522-IN), the Drought
Prone Areas Project (Credit 526-IN), and market development projects financed
under Credits 294 and 378-IN. Under ARDC I, about 7% of the IDA credit was
allotted for diversified lending. Under this project, the proportion would be
increased to about 12% reflecting the increasing demand for finance for these
activities. Dairy loans would cover the costs of dairy cattle and equipment
needed by farmers wishing to participate in dairy enterprises that are so suc-
cessful in India. A typical investment, costing about Rs 5,600 would cover
the facilities for and the purchase of two dairy cows. Poultry loans would
be made to groups as well as individuals. A typical group or cooperative in-
vestment would be a 1,000 layer battery unit costing about Rs 60,000. For
small and marginal farmers many of whom would be participants in Small Farmers
Development Agencies (SFDA) sponsored programs, a typical investment would be
for a 50 layer unit costing about Rs 3,000. Fisheries loans would be mainly
in the marine fisheries sector and be both for the purchase of mechanized
vessels and traditional canoes. The typical mechanized vessel is an 11 m
trawler cum gillnetter costing, including gear, about Rs 140,000. Loans to
small, traditional fishermen would be for the purchase of canoes, average cost
Rs 15,000, and outboard motors, average cost about Rs 5,600. Most tree crop
loans would be for the rehabilitation of existing plantings. Typically, loan
beneficiaries would make investments in soil preparation, planting materials,
and provision of irrigation, where needed. The principal crops involved would
be coconuts, tea, coffee, mangoes and citrus fruits. Investment cost is esti-
mated to average Rs 5,000 per ha but this would vary according to the crop
and the region, as would the loan repayment period, which would not, however,
exceed fifteen years. Small, medium and large farmers would all be involved
in this type of investment. Storage, Markets, Farm Equipment: There is an
increasing need in India for storage to cope with the substantial increase
in the production of foodgrain and other crops to which IDA is contributing
through this and other on-going IDA agricultural credits. ARDC would provide
refinance to CB against loans given by them mainly to private entrepreneurs
for construction of godowns. Godowns would range in capacity from 2,500 to
5,000 tons and cost (including land) about Rs 400,000 and Rs 800,000 respec-
tively. Under curcurrent arrangements, the Food Corporation of India (FCI)
leases such godowns for a minimum period of 3 to 5 years using them for the
storage of buffer stocks and for distribution of foodgrains to the public. It
is essential that ARDC lending for storage be linked with GOI national storage
plans for which Bank Group financial assistance is under consideration. Con-
sequently, proposals for lending for storage would be referred to IDA before
being sanctioned by ARDC. There is also some demand for ARDC refinancing of
investments in regulated market yards. As yet, IDA has insufficient experience
with the two on-going state market development projects. In particular the
economic benefits are as yet uncertain, although financial returns are very
high. Therefore, proposals for markets would also be referred to IDA for



- 14 -
approval before being sanctioned by ARDC. There is an increasing awareness
of the advantages of small threshers and dryers, which would not cause labor
displacement, to avoid spoilage and other losses at harvest time, particularly
in those areas subject to adverse harvest weather conditions. Under the proj-
ect, ARDC would encourage such investments by promoting them in the schemes
for minor irrigation and other developments which it is refinancing.
Training (Annex 6)
4.07      The project would continue and expand training programs for:  (i)
senior and middle level staff of the main agricultural lending institutions;
and (ii) LDB junior staff. At appraisal of ARDC I it was estimated that
about 6,600 agricultural credit banking senior and middle level staff would
require in-service training. About 25% of these will have received such
training by the closing date of ARDC I (December 31, 1977) if current schedules
are met. By December 31, 1979, estimated completion date of the proposed
project, this should have risen to about 45%. This rate of progress is satis-
factory given that banks have difficulties in releasing staff for training
during busy periods. A study of LDB junior level staff training requirements
conducted by ARDC as part of ARDC I indicated that all the junior staff of LDB,
some 17,500 in all, required training and that the training of about 9,000
staff in special categories such as technical and recovery officers should be
given priority. All staff in the priority category are expected to have had
this training by completion of ARDC I, and the remainder would receive it under
the project. Details are in Annex 6. Present training arrangements and quality
of training are generally satisfactory. ARDC is aware that deficiencies have
existed, and in some instances, still exist in the training program - mainly
the lack of training materials at the LDB training centers. ARDC is adequately
staffed, however, to direct and monitor training programs and implement remedial
measures when problems arise. The primary training center would continue to
be the College of Agricultural Banking (CAB) at Poona. The LDB training
centers, which would handle the bulk of the junior level training, would be
required to meet ARDC standards for the curricula and for staff experience and
quality. Details of the courses are in Annex 6. An assurance was obtained
from ARDC at negotiations that it would carefully monitor the training programs
and particularly the workshops for trainers, and revise training programs in
the light of its evaluations.



- 15 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Project costs are estimated at Rs 5,247 M (US$583 M) of which about
US$26 M are duties and taxes. The costs are summarized below:
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---------(Rs M)---------   -----(US$ M)---------    (%)
I. Minor Irrigation
Minor Irrigation   3,018.0   412.0   3,430.0  335.3   45.8   381.1           12
Land Development      110.0      6.0      116.0   12.2    0.7    12.9         5
Subtotal         3,128.0   418.0   3,546.0  347.5   46.5   394.0          12
II. Diversified
Lending
Plantation and
Horticulture        218.0    24.0      242.0   24.2    2.7    26.9         10
Dairy                 194.0    22.0       216.0   21.6    2.4    24.0        10
Poultry and
Sheep               117.0    13.0      130.0   13.0    1.4    14.4         10
Fisheries              81.0      9.0       90.0    9.0    1.0    10.0        10
Farm Mechanization   290.0    97.0        387.0   32.2   10.8    43.0        25
Other                  94.0    10.0       104.0   10.5    1.1    11.6        10
Subtotal           994.0   175.0   1,169.0  110.5   19.4   129.9          15
III. Training                18.0      -        18.0    2.0      -       2.0       -
Total before
Contingencies    4,140.0   593.0   4,733.0  460.0   65.9   525.9           13
IV. Price Contingen-
cies                450.0    64.0      514.0   50.0    7.1    57.1         13
Total Project
Cost              4,590.0   657.0   5,247.0  510.0   73.0   583.0          13
Estimates are expressed in current prices and incorporate a price increase
contingency at an annual rate of 7% in accordance with Bank estimates of
future price movements in India. Cost estimates are based on the ARDC indi-
cative lending program for the period 1977/78 to 1978/79 which is drawn from
estimates of agricultural investments requiring ARDC refinance, prepared for
the various States. ARDC has had long experience with investments of the type
to be financed under the project and their costs; this is a two-year time slice
of ARDC estimated five year program (excluding on-going IDA projects channelled
through ARDC) and as with most agricultural credit projects, no allowance has
been made for physical contingencies. Details of project costs are in Annex 12.



- 16 -
B. Proposed Financing
5.02      Financing would be as follows:
Borrowers    Banks       ARDC/GOI          IDA          Total
US$M    %   US$M    %   US$M        %    US$M   %      US$M    %
Minor
Irrigation 26.3    6   30.1    7   205.4 /a  47   175.0  40   436.8   100
Diversified
Lending    11.6    8   24.7   17    83.9 /a  58    24.0  17   144.2   100
Training
and Survey   -      -     -      -     1.0 /b  50      1.0  50      2.0   100
Total      37.9    7   54.8    9   290.3        50   200.0  34   583.0   100
/a   ARDC
lb   GOI
5.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$200 M would be made to GOI on standard
terms, and would finance about 34% of total project costs or about 36% of proj-
ect costs net of duties and taxes. The credit would cover the foreign exchange
costs of about US$73 M and about US$127 M (25%) of local costs.  About 50% of
project costs would be provided by ARDC and GOI, 9% by participating banks,
and 7% by borrowers. A Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be
executed between GOI and ARDC, under which GOI would make: (i) US$1 M of the
IDA proceeds available to ARDC, as a grant for LDB staff training and for a
groundwater survey; and (ii) US$199 M available to ARDC, repayable partly
over 9 years at 6.75% and partly over 15 years at 7.25% (with 0.25% rebate for
prompt repayments of principal and interest) depending upon the repayment
period of ARDC refinance to participating banks. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that GOI and
ARDC had executed a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA.
C. Procurement
5.04      The project would involve relatively small investments on indivi-
dual farms throughout India. As in other ARDC operations financed by the
Bank Group and as is usual in agricultural credit projects financed else-
where, project beneficiaries would be given freedom of choice in the procure-
ment of equipment, goods and services. Consequently, bulking for Interna-
tional Competitive Bidding (ICB) would not be practicable, and ICB would
not be used as a means of procurement. Normal commercial channels provide
an adequate choice of locally manufactured equipment, good servicing facil-
ities exist, and prices are competitive with those on world markets.



- 17 -
D. Disbursement
5.05      The IDA disbursements would be made against ARDC certified state-
ments of loans made by participating banks and refinanced by ARDC, and of
expenditures on training. For ease of administration disbursement of the
IDA credit would be made against: (i) 55% of ARDC refinance for minor irri-
gation and diversified agricultural lending (excluding tractors, energization
of pumpsets, and forestry schemes which would be financed wholly from ARDC
own resources); and (ii) 50% of the cost of training and survey. Documents
would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by ARDC and
be available for inspection by IDA during project supervision. A schedule of
estimated quarterly disbursements is in Annex 11.
VI.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organization
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
6.01      ARDC, a subsidiary of RBI, was established by an Act of Parliament
on July 1, 1963. Its main objective is to provide credit for agricultural
investments by making long and medium term funds available mainly to LDB,
SCB and CB to refinance approved agricultural schemes which are economically
sound and located within a reasonably compact area. In its development role,
ARDC helps formulate schemes, particularly in lesser developed States, and
consequently is able to influence lending policies and procedures of agencies
it assists. It was agreed during negotiations that GOI would advise IDA of
any proposed amendments to the ARDC Act. ARDC would have primary responsi-
bility for carrying out the project. Through its refinancing of participating
banks, it would control the flow of project funds and further contribute to
the sound development of agricultural credit institutions throughout India.
6.02      Organization and Management:  The Managing Director (who is the
chief executive) is assisted by some 300 professional staff of whom about
200 are located at head office in Bombay. The rest are in 15 regional
offices (Map 12630) located in State capitals where they maintain contact
with State Governments and financing institutions.  The regional offices
assist lending institutions in project preparation, implementation of ARDC
policies and procedures, and scrutiny and appraisal of new schemes.
6.03      Source of Funds (Annex 4):  Four main sources of funds are available
to ARDC:
(i)  Share Capital and Reserves:  As of June 30, 1976, issued and
paid-up capital was Rs 250 M and reserves stood at Rs 44 M.
The ARDC has no bad debts or overdues, and the reserves are
adequate given that most of its lending is guaranteed by
State Governments. The principal shareholders are RBI
56%, LDB 18%, CB 16% and SCB 9%;



- 18 -
(ii)  Borrowings from GOI:  As of June 30, 1976, borrowings from
GOI, representing the rupee counterpart of disbursements
made on IDA credits, stood at Rs 2,500 M;
(iii)  Issue and Sale of Debentures and Bonds Guaranteed by GOI:
This source of funds helps mobilize savings from a variety
of institutions, e.g. insurance companies, commercial
banks, etc. During fiscal year 1976, bonds for an aggre-
gate amount of Rs 385 M were issued, raising total market
borrowings to Rs 1,377 M; and
(iv)  Borrowings from RBI:  Borrowings from RBI are of two kinds:
(a) for periods not exceeding 15 years under the National
Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund of RBI.
Under this arrangement, borrowings reached Rs 600 M during
1975/76. Repayments on earlier loans were Rs 98 M, leaving
a balance outstanding of Rs 1,384 M as of June 30, 1976;
and (b) short term borrowings (less than 18 months); ARDC
has a limit of Rs 150 M to accommodate temporary require-
ments; as of June 30, 1976, the outstanding balance was
Rs 17 M.
6.04      Use of Funds.  The major portion of ARDC past refinance has been
for minor irrigation (75.2%).  Other purposes of ARDC refinance include farm
mechanization (10.8%), diversified agricultural purposes (8.2%), and land
development (5.8%). Since its inception, ARDC has made significant contri-
butions to increased production through financing of about 209,000 tubewells,
302,000 dugwells and 481,000 pumpsets. Land developed on irrigation projects
and land improved under soil conservation schemes aggregate about 635,000 ha.
Through its investments, ARDC has assisted in bringing about 2 M ha under mul-
tiple cropping. Other activities financed under ARDC include development
of plantation and horticultural crops, poultry, sheep breeding, fisheries,
dairy, and construction of storage facilities and market yards. Details are
in Annex 4, Table 7.
6.05      Operating Results.  ARDC operating results are satisfactory.  Pro-
fits before taxes in 1975/76 were Rs 58.5 M; with a statutory 10% transferred
to reserves (Rs 5.9 M) and taxes of Rs 30.9 M, this left a net profit for dis-
tribution of Rs 21.7 M. After paying a share capital dividend of Rs 10.9 M,
the balance was added to reserves. From 1975/76 to 1980/81, ARDC loans and
debentures are projected to increase from Rs 5,500 M to Rs 17,000 M, paid up
share capital from Rs 250 M to Rs 650 M and reserves from Rs 44 M to Rs 310 M.
Projected Balance Sheets to 1980/81 are in Annex 4, Table 10. The ARDC ac-
counts for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1976, have been audited and have
received an unqualified report.
B. Lending Arrangements
Participating Banks
6.06      ARDC would refinance, by way of loans or purchase of special deben-
tures, up to 90% of individual loans issued by participating LDB, CB and SCB.



- 19 -
Participating banks would compete for project business: there would be no
specific allocations of funds between them. To be eligible to participate,
LDB would have to meet the overdues criteria mentioned in para 2.15 and SCB
would have to have a recovery rate of not less than 75% of demand. All CB,
which are regulated by RBI, would be eligible.
6.07      Appraisal of Schemes.  The ARDC lending program is implemented
through a large number of area schemes. Under each scheme, credit is pro-
vided for one particular type of investment, for example, pumpsets or dairy
cattle, within a compact area. Initiation and formulation of the scheme is
normally by local banks in cooperation with State Government agencies. In
lesser developed States, however, ARDC frequently assists with scheme formu-
lation and preparation. Schemes are then submitted to ARDC for appraisal
and approval of refinance. Appraisal covers not only technical and financial
feasibility, but also an assessment of the administrative and organizational
capacity of supporting institutions, including extension, input supply and
seasonal credit. Where necessary, time-scheduled undertakings are obtained
that services and institutions will be brought up to required standards.
Technical appraisal is conducted by ARDC specialist staff supplemented by
consultants of which ARDC maintains a large panel. Under the first line
of credit, ARDC built up a satisfactory technical capacity for most ground-
water development schemes which account for a large part of on lending oper-
ations. However, for appraisal and supervision of lift irrigation and deep
tubewell schemes, ARDC needs additional technical expertise and an assurance
was obtained from ARDC at negotiations that a person whose qualifications
and experience are appropriate would be employed by ARDC as a permanent staff
member by not later than August 31, 1977.
6.08      Following scheme appraisal, a report is prepared for approval by
ARDC Board of Directors. However, if the total refinance requested amounts
to Rs 5 M or less, the scheme may be approved by the Managing Director. The
period of time between receipt of scheme application and approval depends on
standards of preparation and type of investment but normally averages about
6 months. Following approval, the terms and conditions of refinance are
formally communicated to participating banks. ARDC appraisal procedures and
standards, which have gradually evolved and improved over the eight years in
which it has been associated with the Bank Group, are satisfactory.
Lending Terms
6.09      Interest Rates.  Generally, the structure of interest rates in India
is considered to be adequate. There is little inter-sectoral distortion: the
differentials charged by institutions lending primarily to agriculture and
those lending to industry are small. In general, institutions lend to industry
at between 11% and 12%, and commercial banks for agricultural purposes at about
13% when using their own funds. Under this project, participating banks,
including commercial banks, would receive funds from ARDC at minimum annual
interest rates of 7.5% for minor irrigation and on-farm development, and 8% for
diversified agricultural lending. Final beneficiaries would borrow at minimum
rates of 10.5% for minor irrigation and on-farm development, and 11% for other
agricultural purposes. Under the project, ARDC would ensure that interest
rates charged on loans would be sufficient to enable ARDC and participating
banks to:



- 20 -
(i) cover all operating expenditures and charges, including taxes (if any),
and interest payments on borrowings; and (ii) maintain adequate provisions
for bad debts and adequate general reserves. While interest rates are gen-
erally adequate to cover the costs of lending operations, most LDB would be-
nefit from an increased "spread" to allow continued expansion of operations
meeting the needs of small farmers and in the interest of long term financial
viability. This would also enable direct recruitment of permanent senior staff
to replace staff now on secondment from the State Governments (para 2.16).
Such a move would strengthen LDB. It was agreed during negotiations that ARDC,
in conjunction with RBI, would carry out a study of interest spreads with
particular reference to the needs of LDB; such study would be completed by
March 31, 1978. Interest rates in India are discussed in Annex 3 Appendix 4,
and project lending terms and conditions are detailed in Schedule C.
6.10      Security.  Security would be in accordance with arrangements between
ARDC and participating banks. CB secure medium and long term loans by dis-
cretionary first mortgages on land, chattel mortgages, guarantees, or other
acceptable securities. In most States, LDB are required by law to obtain a
first mortgage on land for all loans, and in most cases they also take a lien
on any equipment purchased with loans. If LDB lend a farmer more than 60% of
the value of his land, a State Government guarantee of the loan is required;
this has been readily forthcoming when necessary.
6.11      Borrowers' Contribution to Investment Cost and Repayments.  Under
the project, the minimum contribution of a borrower with pre-development in-
come between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,500 (based on 1972 prices) would be 10% 1/ of
investment costs. For farmers with pre-development incomes exceeding Rs 3,500,
the minimum contribution would be 10% 1/ of investment costs for minor irriga-
tion and land development and 15% 2/ for other investments. For small farmers
(defined in Schedule D), the contribution would be 5% for all lending. Bor-
rowers' contributions would include the value of any family labor applied to
the investment, as estimated by the lending bank. For loans from LDB, the
down payment would include a mandatory 5% contribution to the share capital
of the LDB. Repayment periods would not exceed the life of assets financed.
For pumpsets these would be for a maximum of seven years; for tubewells,
fifteen years for loans to small farmers, and nine years maximum for other
farmers. For other agricultural lending, the repayment periods would con-
form to the farmer's ability to repay, with a maximum of fifteen years. Where
necessary, grace periods would be allowed.
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



- 21 -
C. Accounts and Audit
6.12      Accounting and auditing procedures would be as in other on-going
Bank Group financed agricultural credit projects in India. Under these,
audited accounts of participating banks are submitted through ARDC to IDA
within four months of the end of the fiscal year, together with a statement,
certified by ARDC, showing lending and recoveries under the project. CB
accounts are audited by commercial accounting firms and scrutinized by RBI;
LDB accounts are audited by an audit section of the State cooperative depart-
ment. These audit procedures are satisfactory and audits under on-going
projects are up to date. ARDC would continue to have its accounts audited by
auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurances on these points were obtained from
ARDC during negotiations.
D. Lending to Small Farmers and in Lesser Developed States
6.13      Small Farmers.  ARDC and GOI agreed during negotiation that at least
US$100 M (50%) of the total amount of loans made available to beneficiaries
under the project would be disbursed to small farmers. ARDC confirmed that
records would continue to be kept to clearly identify such lending. ARDC
defines a small farmer (see Schedule D) as one who is cultivating land that
produces, before any improvements are made, a maximum annual net return to
the farm family of Rs 2,000, based on 1972 prices. Assuming that the farm
family has no other income, this is equivalent to an annual per capita income
of about US$50. 1/ Under ARDC I, disbursements to small farmers thus defined
are running at about 55% of total disbursements. To facilitate lending to
small farmers, ARDC, participating banks, State Governments, and GOI have
instituted a number of concessions. These include: (i) reducing down payments,
and, where necessary, permitting these to be spread over two years rather than
paid in one installment; (ii) special terms for participants in groups; (iii)
relaxation of land mortgage requirements and provision of a State Government
guarantee in lieu; and (iv) facilities for liberalizing debenture issues in
cases where a participating bank has a major small farmer program and incurs
special costs through, for example, justifiable deferral of down payments and
loan repayments. Furthermore, GOI and some States make capital grants avail-
able to small farmers and entrepreneurs. The largest of such programs is that
operated by the Small Farmers Development Agencies (SFDA) (Annex 7).
1/   While such farmers are very poor, they are not always the poorest rural
people. The latter are mostly landless laborers. They benefit indirectly
from ARDC minor irrigation operations as a result of the improved on-farm
employment opportunities resulting from intensification of land use.
They also benefit directly from certain diversified lending operations.



- 22 -
6.14      It is proposed that, under the project, ARDC refinancing of loans
made to participants in SFDA and other capital grant schemes would be eligible
for IDA finance provided IDA was able to reach agreement with GOI on the fol-
lowing points:
(i) use of a maximum of 2 ha of dry land or 1 ha of irrigated
land 1/ (or the ARDC small farmer definition, whichever is
lower) as the upper limit for allowing refinance of parti-
cipants in SFDA under the Project: this would ensure that
only genuinely small farmers refinanced by ARDC under the
IDA credit have access to the capital subsidy; and
(ii) subsidy funds granted by SFDA in connection with ARDC sub-
loans would be channeled through the banking system, farmer
eligibility criteria agreed with IDA would be observed, and
suitable field supervision and auditing procedures would be
followed: this would ensure that subsidy funds allocated
within ARDC-financed schemes would be adequately administered.
During negotiations GOI confirmed that the above arrangements would be applied.
6.15      Lesser Developed States.  The north eastern region of India, com-
prising the States of Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal is an area where
agricultural development lags.  Yet most of the region enjoys moderate to
heavy monsoon rains and large areas of relatively fertile soils, and there is
a vast, mainly unexploited, surface and groundwater resource.  ARDC has re-
cognized the need to increase lending levels in these and other lesser de-
veloped States and has participated with IDA in review of their potentials.
Under the project, a minimum of 25% of ARDC refinancing is expected to be
disbursed in lesser developed regions which, in addition to lesser developed
areas in the north eastern region States, include parts of Himachal Pradesh,
Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir. Annex 12 shows ARDC plans for State by State
lending. As noted in para 7.01, lending in many of those States would be
facilitated by on-going or proposed IDA financed projects directed at improving
agriculture research, extension and other supporting agricultural institutions.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6.16      Monitoring.  Reports from participating banks and field supervisions
by ARDC termed "follow-up" studies are the main sources of information on the
1/   This is the SFDA small farmer definition; the ARDC definition is shown
in Schedule D. The main difference between them is that the ARDC defini-
tion is based on a minimum income which is then converted into ha at
District level and the SFDA definition relates to a fixed ha level. For
most cropping patterns and in most States, the SFDA definition is con-
siderably more restrictive than the ARDC definition, i.e. it is targeted
at a lower farm size. Thus, the bulk of SFDA small farmers also qualify
as small farmers under the ARDC definition.



- 23 -
progress of ARDC refinanced schemes. During the project period several hundred
schemes per annum would be inspected by ARDC and several thousand beneficiaries
visited. ARDC intends to improve the efficiency of its scheme supervision
through: (i) clearer guidelines for the selection of schemes for supervision
and of beneficiaries for interview; (ii) standardization of data collection;
and (iii) refinement, reduction and timely analysis of data collected.
6.17      Evaluation.  An improved evaluation system is needed to provide ARDC
with better data on costs, benefits and financial viability at farm level of
the main investments it refinances. ARDC plans to evaluate ten ARDC schemes
and participate in evaluation of ten completed IDA financed agricultural credit
projects during the project period. At the same time a major effort would be
made to develop more suitable evaluation methodology through the establishment
of an Evaluation Task Unit consisting of 3-4 senior staff who would dedicate
their full time to that purpose. The possibility of coordinated evaluation
efforts of different agencies, including ARDC, at the State level would be ex-
plored through the establishment, in each of an initial five States, of a Co-
ordination Committee for Agricultural Surveys and Studies (CCAS), in which the
State Government, ARDC, banks, and universities would participate. In order
to implement this program ARDC would provide each of its regional offices
with an agricultural economist.
6.18      Reporting.  ARDC would send quarterly and annual progress reports
to IDA using guidelines set out in Annex 8.
6.19      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ARDC would:  (i)
follow monitoring, evaluation and reporting procedures as agreed with IDA;
(ii) establish an Evaluation Task Unit satisfactory to IDA by December 31,
1977; (iii) conduct ten evaluation studies; the type of investments, location
of study and methodology to be agreed by IDA; and (iv) provide all regional
offices with an agricultural economist by December 31, 1977.
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Production
7.01      About 0.9 M ha would be irrigated as a result of project financed in-
vestments in minor irrigation and land development and, as a consequence bene-
ficiary farmers would increase cropping intensities, yields, and the proportion
of high value crops in their rotations. These changes would be facilitated and
supported in several States by improvements in extension and agricultural re-
search services many of which are taking place with IDA assistance. 1/ Project
1/   IDA has financed the reorganization of extension and research services
in Orissa and West Bengal, appraised such projects for Rajasthan, Madhya
Pradesh and Assam, and is assisting in the preparation of similar proj-
ects for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.



- 24 -
induced annual incremental production from minor irrigation at full develop-
ment, is estimated as follows: (i) about 700,000 tons of foodgrains (about
0.6% of production in 1975/76); (ii) about 800,000 tons of potatoes and other
vegetables; and (iii) sugarcane, groundnuts and fibercrops valued at about
Rs 1,300 M (US$144 M). Total value of this output is estimated at Rs 2,500 M
(US$278 M) at constant end of 1976 farm-gate values.
7.02      Diversified lending would lead to production increments from tree
crops, for example - coconuts, coffee and tea, livestock - milk, eggs and
wool, and fisheries - fish and shrimps.  Part of this production, for ex-
ample, coffee and shrimp, would be exported. The value of incremental out-
put resulting from diversified project lending, at full development, is
estimated at about Rs 800 M (US$89 M) per annum, at 1976 farm-gate prices.
Marketing
7.03      Most incremental production would be of domestically consumed pro-
duce such as foodgrain, vegetables and livestock products, for which demand is
good and expected to rise as a result of population increase. Export market
prospects for items such as shrimp, sugar and coffee are good. Marketing
difficulties are not anticipated as incremental output would amount to a
small proportion of present production, would come from numerous and widely
dispersed areas throughout India, and could easily be handled by existing
marketing channels.
Prices
7.04      Financial prices used in this report are based on end 1976 farm-
gate prices. Prices used in economic analyses are based on Bank projections
of world prices. Details are in Annexes 9 and 10.
Financial Benefits
7.05      The financial viability of the principal categories of project
investments have been tested through the analysis of ten representative
models. The financial rates of return (FRR) and incremental benefits are
summarized below:



- 25 -
Annual Incremental
Income After Debt
Model               Area (Size)        Rs      FRR           Service
(%)            (Rs)
1.  Dugwell and pumpset         1.2 ha         9,500     26           1,650
2.  Shallow tubewell            2.0 ha         9,000     41           2,750
3.  Pumpset (3 hp)              1.2 ha         3,500     38              990
4.  Pumpset (3 hp)              2.0 ha         3,500     43           1,170
5.  Land development            1.2 ha         2,000   over 50        1,870
6.  Coconut                     0.5 ha         4,100     30           1,500
7.  Dairy                       2 cows        5,600   over 50         1,410
8.  Poultry                   1,000 layers   60,000      26           5,700
9. Mechanized fishing
vessel                  11 m.         140,500      33          17,700
10. Mechanized canoe            9 m.          31,400     30           2,900
7.06      These rates of return are only illustrative, but they show that
proposed project investments would be attractive to sub-borrowers and that
demand for investment funds provided by ARDC is likely to remain strong.
However, it must be recognized that as ARDC operations expand to reach smal-
ler farmers, particularly in lesser developed areas, financial returns may
not always be as attractive as indicated by these averages. In particular,
effective extension and provision of modern inputs and improved water sharing
among small farmers is often a prerequisite to profitable minor irrigation
investment. Thus, continued expansion of sound ARDC lending operations is
substantially dependent on the development of such complementary services
promoted under a variety of GOI programs, often under the support of Bank
Group projects.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's primary economic benefits would be an increase in
agricultural production for domestic consumption and export. At full develop-
ment, by about 1984, the annual value of such increases is estimated at about
US$367 M in terms of 1976 prices, see paras 7.01 and 7.02.
8.02      Economic rates of return have been calculated for the investment
models used in the financial analysis of the project, para 7.05. Based, as
they are, on the experience gained under on-going ARDC schemes they can be
regarded as indicative of the rates of return which would accrue. Results
of the calculations which are summarized in the following table indicate
that the overall economic return of the project would be about 32%.



- 26 -
Economic Rate of Return
Best     Investment   Operational   Benefits
Estimate     + 10%       Costs + 10%      -10%
1.  Dugwell and pumpset       27           24             24            20
2.  Shallow tubewell          41           37             36            32
3.  Pumpset (1.2 ha)          35           31             30            26
4.  Pumpset (2.0 ha)          32           28             26            22
5.  Land development        over 50      over 50       over 50       over 50
6.  Coconut                   22           20             21            19
7.  Dairy                     39           32             24            17
8.  Poultry                   23           20             10             7
9. Mechanized fishing
vessel                 39           34             32            27
10.  Mechanized canoe          34           29             24            19
8.03      Beyond the realization of substantial benefits arising out of pro-
ductive on-farm investments, the project aims at the build-up of stronger
institutions. Strengthening of the ARDC technical units and improvements in
the Corporation's monitoring and evaluation systems should result in better
preparation, appraisal and monitoring of schemes, thus reducing investment
risks. Strengthening of LDB through intensified staff training would have
a similar impact. Measures to better control overdues through tying the
issuance of new debentures to recovery performance should lead to further
reduction in LDB overdues and thus increase the availability of funds for
investments and contribute to a more equitable distribution of productive
assets in the countryside.
8.04      The number of project beneficiaries would be substantial and is
estimated at about 1.0 M farmers; this estimate includes farmers who would
benefit through the purchase of water. At least 50% of the credit would
be extended to small farmers, see para 6.13 and about 25% of it deployed in
the lesser developed north eastern States of Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West
Bengal and parts of other lesser developed States (para 6.15). Incremental
annual employment generated by project investment is estimated at about 175 M
man-days. Much of the additional labor would be supplied by unemployed or
underemployed members of beneficiary families. However, a significant part
would be provided by hired laborers, many of them landless people belonging
to the poorest segments of India's population.
8.05      Project Risk.  The main risk in this type of project is inadequate
appraisal and monitoring of schemes and individual borrowers, leading to poor
performance of some investments and borrowers. ARDC experience shows that
this risk is slight, and continuing institutional improvement should further
reduce it. The vagaries of weather are an omnipresent risk, but with about
75% of project investments planned for minor irrigation, the project by its
ature is risk reducing.



- 27 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following points:
(a) ARDC would apply agreed regulations for the issuance of LDB
debentures, and any modifications would be subject to IDA
approval (para 2.15);
(b) ARDC would continue in its lending operations to support and
give priority to other Bank Group projects (para 4.01);
(c) ARDC would carry out a survey of probable pumpset replacement
requirements for the next five years (para 4.02);
(d) ARDC would carry out a study of groundwater problem areas
(para 4.05);
(e) ARDC, in conjunction with RBI, would carry out a study of
interest spreads with particular reference to the needs of
LDB (para 6.09);
(f) at least US$100 M (50%) of the total amount of loans made
available to beneficiaries under the project would be dis-
bursed to small farmers (para 6.13); and
(g) ARDC would follow monitoring, evaluation and reporting
procedures as agreed with IDA (para 6.19).
9.02      A condition of effectiveness would be that:
(a) a Subsidiary Agreement between GOI and ARDC, acceptable to
IDA, had been executed (para 5.03).
9.03      Subject to these agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$200 M on standard terms. The Borrower would be the Government
of India.
May 12, 1977



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Groundwater Utilization
Districts Containing Intensively Developed and/or Potential Problem Areas
State           District             Tehsil/Taluk               State           District           Tehsil/Taluk
Gujarat         Ahmedabad           Daues                       Haryana         Hissar             Barwala
Viramgam                                                      Hansi-I
Sirsa
Banaskantha         Deodar                                     Jind               Rajannd
Deesa
Dhanera                                    Karnal             Assandh
Madlauda
Junagadh            Mangrol                                                       Missang
Veraval                                                       Nilokheri
Panipat
Kutch               Anjar                                                          Samalka
Bachan
Lakhpet                                    Kurukshetra        Gulha
Mundra                                                        Ladwa
Naliya                                                         Pundri
Rapar                                                          Sahabad
Thanesar
Mehsana             Mehsana
Patan                                      Mohindergarh       Atalinangal
Vijapur                                                        Bawal
Khol
Haryana         Ambala               Barara                                                         Khanina
Jagadhari                                                     Narnaul
Naraingarh                                                     Nangal-Chowdri
Rewari        > 
0.
I -a
tbm



State           District            Tehsil/Taluk               State          District           Tehsil
Bhiwani            Bhadra                                     Rohtak             Bahadurgarh
Bhiwani                                                      Beri
Dadri I                                                      Jhajjar
Dadri II                                                     Kharkhoder
Dadri II                                                     Kalanaur
Loharu                                                       Nahar
Rohtak
Gurgaon            Balabhgarh                                                    Shalawas
Gurgaon
Hathin                                    Sonepet            Ganaur
Nuh                                                          Rai
Pataudi                                                      Sonipat
Punhana
Sohana                    Maharashtra    Ahmednagar          Akola
Rahuri
Karnataka       Bangalore           Bangalore south                                              Kopargaon
Devanahalli                                                  Sangamener
Doddaballapur
Hoskote                                   Dhulia             Dhulia
Nandurbar
Belgaum            Attani
Chikodi                                   Nasik              Chandur
Gokak                                                        Kalwan
Hukkeri                                                      Malegaon
Raibagh                                                      Satana
Bellary            Harpanahalli                               Sangli             Khanapur
Mallapur                                                     Miraj
Bijapur            B. Bagewadi                Orissa          Ganjam             Aska-Block
Bijapur
Indi                       Punjab         Faridkot           Nilsinghwala
Jamkhandi                                                    Moga and southern
Mudhol                                                       parts of Jagraon
Sindgi                                                                           d
(D o
9 5D



State           District            Tehsil/Taluk               State          District           Tehsil/Taluk
Chitradurga        Challakere                                 Kapurthala West   Entire district except
Chitradurga                                                  5 km. wide belt along
Hiriyur                                                      river Beas
Jagalur
Molakalmuri                               Ludhiana           Complete district
except in the block
Dharwar            Mundargi                                                      along river Sutlej
Kolar              Bagepalli                                  Patiala            Parts of Nabha and
Bangarpet                                                    Sirhind Tehsil, Samana
Chikkaballapur
Chintamani                                Sangrur            Complete district
Gudibanda                                                    except in the southern
Kolar                                                        part of Sangrur tehsil
Malur                                                        and western part of
Mulbagal                                                     Barnala tehsil
Sidlaghatta
Barmer            Entire district except
Mandya             Mandya                                                        Siwana block
Pandavapur
Srirangapattana                           Ganganagar         Excepting the eastern
parts and areas
Mysore             Yelandur                                                      adjacent to canals
Raichur            Koppal                                     Jaisalmer          Whole district excepting
areas south of
Tumkur             Bavagada                                                      Jaisalmer
Koratagere
Madhugiri                                 Jalore             Entire district
Sira
Jodhpur           Jodhpur-Nathania area
Pali              Entire district
t cn
rr,D
I-.>



State           District            Tehsil/Taluk               State          District           Tehsil/Taluk
Tamil Nadu      Coimbatore          Avinashi                  West Bengal    Birbhum             Bolpur
Coimbatore                                                  Labhpur
Palladam                                                    Mayureshwar
Murarai
North Arcot        Arni                                                         Nalhati
Polur                                                        Rampurhat
Wandiwash                                                    Upper Nanur
Ramanadhapuram     Arupukottai                                Burdwar'          Kalna
Sattur                                                      Katwa
Srivalliputhur
Hooghly           Arambagh
Salem              Attur                                                        Balagarh
Salem                                                        Ganghat
Pursurah
Tirunelveli        Koilpatti
Nanguneri                                 Malda              Kharba
Ratna
Uttar Pradesh   Aligarh             Areas around Aligarh;
Iglas in Iglas Tehsil                     Murshidabad        Bharatpur
and Sansi in Hathras                                         Burwan
Tehsil                                                       Kandi
Khargram
Badaun             Alapur in Datagani
Tehsil and Kisrua                         Nadia              Krishnagar-l
in Badaun Tehsil
Bulandehahr        Jewar and Rabupura in
Khurja Tehsil
Meerut             Baraut, Chhaprauli
Kisanpur Baral and
Daha in Baghpat Tehsil
Nidinagar and Pilkhua in
Gaziabad Tehsil, Kharkhuda,
Babugarh and Hapur in                                                             IV
Hapur Tehsil, Bhawanipur                                                          9 =
and Jani-Khurd in                                                                 M ff
Meerut Tehsil                                                                     4- 
Source: Central Groundwater Board



Schedule B
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Criteria for Spacing and Density of Wells
Participating banks and State agencies shall determine, for each
scheme submitted to ARDC involving groundwater development, permissible
spacing and density of wells and anticipated water quality based upon local
geologic and hydrologic conditions. Such determinations shall be reviewed
by ARDC prior to sanction of any scheme. In the event any scheme proposes
development exceeding the following guideline criteria, ARDC may sanction
the scheme only after receipt and approval of additional detailed support-
ing data. ARDC shall maintain a record of all requests for relaxation of
the following criteria, including the supporting data submitted and action
taken,. for periodic field review by IDA.
A.        Well Spacing (minimum spacing in meters)
Aquifer and              ----------------Annual Rainfall in mm --------------
well type                Up to 500    500-1,000    1,000-1,500       Over 1,500
Dugwells
Without pumpset /a        180  m       150  m        110  m          100  m
With pumpset /b           250  m       200  m        150  m          100  m
Tubewells in Alluvium
Shallow Tubewells /c      275  m      225  m         175  m          150  m
Deep Tubewells /d       1,000  m      800  m         600  m          500  m
Tubewells in Sedimentary Rocks
Medium Tubewells /e       700  m       700  m        700  m          700  m
/a   Typical annual withdrawal 5-6,000 m3
/b   Typical annual withdrawal 10-12,000 mi
/c   Typical annual withdrawal 15-25,000 m3 at 25-40 m /hr
/d   Typical annual withdrawal 300-400,000 m3 at 150-200 m3/hr
/e   Typical annual withdrawal 75-125,000 m 3at 75-100- m /hr
32



Schedule B
Page 2
(Before reducing above spacing criteria, consideration must be given to
such factors as: rainfall seasonal distribution, reliability, and intensity;
cropping pattern and water requirements, reliability and intensity; cropping
pattern and water requirement; local geology, soils, and topography; existing
development and historical water-level observation or aquifer tests; proposed
withdrawal rates and volumes; and potential added private developments).
B.        Well Density
Permissible density of wells to be based upon a water-balance study
of the appropriate elemental area, considering all existing development and
potential concurrent private development, and using actual field data when-
ever possible instead of empirical assumptions.
33



Schedule C
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in imple-
menting the project and would not be altered without prior IDA agreement:
1.        GOI to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARDC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum for minor irrigation
schemes (including on farm development);
(b) Annual interest rate of 8.0% minimum for diversified
lending;
(c) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(d) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans up
to 90% of individual loans.
34



Schedule C
Page 2
3.        Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(I) Minor Irrigation and On Farm Development:
(a) Annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the
cost of project investment may be charged;
(c) Farmer's contributions (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions
in cash or kind);
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5%
for the cost of any investment;
(ii) for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources
ranging from Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 based on
1972 prices, a minimum of 10% 1/ of the
investment cost; and
(iii) for other farmers, a minimum of 10% 1/ of the
cost of pumpsets and 15% 2/ for other minor
irrigation and on-farm development investments.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, and life of assets to be purchased,
but not to exceed:
(i) for normal lending:
(1) 7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether
financed as separate loans or included
in other minor irrigation loans; and
(2) 9 years on loans for minor irrigation
and on farm development loans, other
than pumpsets;
(ii) for lending to small farmers:
(1)  7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether
financed as separate loans or included
in other minor irrigations; and
1/ 7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/ 10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
35






Schedule C
Page 3
(2) 15 years for all other minor irrigation
and on farm development loans;
(e) Grace periods not exceeding 23 months from the date of
the first installment of the loans, except in exceptional
circumstances, may be granted at the discretion of ARDC,
provided that the repayment period of such loans is not
exceeded.
(f) Technical standards, in particular criteria for spacing
and density of wells as laid down in Schedule B to be
observed. For lift irrigation schemes, a careful determin-
ation of water availability would be made. In evaluating
water supply attention would be given to net depletion
resulting from recent and future groundwater developments
and the effect this would have on the base flow of the
stream.
(g) IDA funds to be withheld from problem areas identified
in Schedule A unless the State Government concerned has
either instituted acceptable controls over the sinking
of new wells or has carried out further studies proving
that there is no longer a problem in those areas and,
that such areas could, at the discretion of ARDC be
removed from the problem list. ARDC would maintain a file
of such studies at head office for IDA inspection.
(h) If his cultivated area was significantly smaller than that
which could be adequately irrigated by the tubewell con-
cerned, the borrower would undertake to sell water sur-
plus to his needs, or to hire out his pumpset, or to par-
ticipate with other farmers in the joint investment and
operation of the tubewell.
(i) Corporation or farmers' group borrowing for lift irriga-
tion or deep tubewell schemes would operate such schemes
in a manner that would ensure adequate water deliveries
to each beneficiary and that would generate sufficient
revenues to cover operating expenses and repay the
capital investment with interest.
II. Diversified Lending:
(a) Annual interest rate of 11% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of investment may be charged;
36



Schedule C
Page 4
(c) Farmers' contributions (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in
cash or kind);
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5% of
investment cost;
(ii) for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources ranging
from Rs 2,001 to.Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a
minimum of 10% 1/ of the investment cost; and
(iii) for other farmers, 15% 2/ of the investment cost.
(d) For the purpose of diversified lending, the terms
"small farmer" and "farmer" include all beneficia-
ries of schemes other than minor irrigation; for the
purpose of determining the equivalent of small farmers
and farmers among such beneficiaries, the definition
of small farmer and the description of farmers set out
in sub-paragraph (II) hereof shall be adopted to mean
'"any person primarily engaged in an activity other than
minor irrigation which provides a pre-development net
return to family resources not exceeding Rs 2,000" and
"ranging from Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500," respectively. "Net
return to family resources" shall mean gross family in-
come from the activity less costs actually incurred.
(e) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity and life of assets to be purchased,
but not to exceed 15 years (including grace periods
where necessary).
III. General
(a) ARDC and lending banks would maintain separate records
for small farmers;
(b) Security would be in accordance with arrangements between
lending banks and ARDC;
(c) ARDC would refinance only sound sub-projects which, on
the basis of careful study were considered to be financially
viable, have a minimum financial rate of return of 15%,
and backed with satisfactory technical and administra-
tive management.
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
37



Schedule C
Page 5
(d) ARDC would forward all applications for refinance of
diversified lending schemes having total investment costs
of US$0.5 M equivalent and over, with appraisal reports
and all other relevant data, to IDA for final approval.
(e) ARDC would apply the agreed criteria relating percentage
overdues to LDB debenture eligibility.
38



Schedule D
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farmer Definition
1.        "Small Farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing
an annual predevelopment net return to family resources to such farmer and
his family not exceeding Rs 2,000, based on 1972 prices.
2.        For the purpose of determining said net return, the following
criteria shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by the
farmer, notwithstanding the fact that ownership of such
land may vest in one or more persons;
(b) "net return to family resources" shall mean gross
family income from the land, less costs actually
incurred (including cash value of farmer's own inputs
including seed, fertilizer, hired human labor, hired
bullock labor, feed consumed by family bullocks, irriga-
tion charges, land revenue, interest on crop loan, and
rent on leased land); and
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by
applying the current price index of the All-India
Agricultural Laborers Index 1/ for the State in which
the land is located to the amount set forth in para-
graph 1 hereto.
39
1/   Source:  "Agricultural Situation in India" published by the Directorate
of Economics and Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Group Projects Financed Through ARDC
1.        The ARDC has been closely associated with the formulation and
implementation of 25 Bank Group projects. Details of projects are given
below and summarized in Table 1.
A. Agricultural Credit Projects
2.        The IDA has sanctioned 11 agricultural credit projects to be imple-
mented through ARDC in the States of Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil
Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, l1aryana, Maharashtra and,
West Bengal. The main components of these projects include investments in
minor irrigation, land leveling and tractors. The West Bengal project is
an integrated one involving minor irrigation, establishment of agro-service
centers, development of markets, and completion of lift irrigation units.
3.        The aggregate lending program for minor irrigation purposes in
the various IDA projects was about Rs 4,530 M of which IDA provided about
Rs 2,630 M. Implementation of minor irrigation programs has proceeded satis-
factorily as land development banks (LDBs), the main financing institutions,
were familiar with this type of lending. In addition, the shift to a higher
level of technology in agricultural production also contributed to increased
demand for minor irrigation investments.
4.        Three projects, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Haryana, have been fully
disbursed. The minor irrigation component (after reallocation) has been com-
pleted in the Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu projects. In Karnataka, while the
original credit allocation for minor irrigation investment has been completed,
some credit has been reallocated from land development and/or farm mechaniza-
tion to minor irrigation. The revised program is likely to be completed
within a few months. The projects of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh
are under various stages of implementation. In the West Bengal project, which
was declared effective during 1975, the banking plan allocating the investment
program between participating banks was recently' finalized by ARDC and project
implementation is expected to gain momentum.
5.        The land development program under IDA projects did not initially
progress well due to lack of demand by farmers for land leveling loans. Much
of the land leveling work was done by family labor, for which no borrowing was
required. Also a legal ceiling on land holdings, difficulties in creation of
mortgages by borrowers in favor of LDB, and inadequate water in canals
40



ANNEX 1
Page 2
restricted demand. The demand for minor irrigation investments was very high,
however, and consequently, after consultation with GOI and IDA, there was a
reallocation of funds from the land development component to minor irrigation
in the Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka projects. In
Haryana, there was reallocation of credit from farm mechanization to minor
irrigation. The position of IDA credit for minor irrigation before and after
reallocations is presented in the following table:
IDA Credit Allocation and Reallocations Under Agricultural Credit Projects
(US$ M)
Original IDA    IDA Credit
Credit Allo-   After Reallo-
Name of Project          Category                        cation          cation
1.  Gujarat             M.I.                             27.30           32.48
F.M.                             7.40             2.50
Others*                          0.30            0.02
35.00           35.00
2.  Andhra Pradesh      M.I.                             14.00           16.32
L.D.                             5.24             3.04
F.M.                             4.88            4.79
Others*                          0.28            0.25
24.40           24.40
3.  Haryana             M.I.                              4.40           12.40
F.M.                            17.40           12.10
(Tractors)
Harvesters and Combines          0.50             0.50
Spare Parts                      2.70
25.00           25.00
4.  Maharashtra         M.I.                             22.68           26.94
L.D.                             2.72             1.20
Others*                          4.60            1.86
30.00           30.00
5.  Tamil Nadu          M.I.                             22.70           24.06
L.D.                             2.10            0.74
F.M.                             5.00            6.15
Others*                          5.20            4.05
35.00           35.00
6.  Karnataka           M.I.                             13.10           25.00
L.D.                            10.00            2.00
F.M.                             6.70            9.20
Others*                         10.20            3.80
40.00           40.00
*    Other items include procurement of well drilling rigs, earth moving
equipment, consultancy services, spare parts, etc.
41



ANNEX I
Page 3
6.        The agricultural credit projects for Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Karnataka had envisaged, inter alia, financ-
ing of farm mechanization equipment in particular, tractors. The progress of
disbursements under this component was halted in the earlier project years
mainly due to procurement problems of financing domestically made tractors.
This issue was resolved by IDA Board action in December 1974, and progress has
been quite rapid since then. The closing dates of Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka,
Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu projects were extended for this purpose.
B. ARDC I
7.        The main objective of this general line of credit, which resulted
from experience gained by ARDC through successful implementation of the
above mentioned State agricultural credit projects, was to transfer to ARDC
appraisal functions formerly done by IDA and for ARDC to commit specific
amounts for individual schemes within an IDA-approved overall lending pro-
gram. The project, besides replacing the State credit projects, enabled
IDA to support worthwhile schemes too small for IDA to appraise individually.
8.        The IDA credit amounting to US$75 M supports a two year lending
program totaling US$168.5 M, for minor irrigation and diversified lending,
throughout India. The credit became effective on August 5, 1975 and project
lending started October 1975. In States where on-going IDA credit projects
were under implementation, financing institutions were already conversant
with project lending; in other States, considerable work was necessary to
make the State Governments and financial institutions aware of project
requirements.
9.        Schemes brought under the project were of three categories:
(a) balance of on-going schemes started under existing agricultural credit
projects in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu; (b) on-going ARDC schemes
satisfying project lending terms; and (c) new schemes.
Performance
10.       As the project has been operational for only just over twelve
months, it is too early to assess its full impact. The IDA disbursements
as of December 31, 1976, amounted to US$31 M (100% of appraisal estimates).
However, projections based on ARDC commitments for schemes already sanctioned
show that the credit should be fully disbursed by June 30, 1977, six months
ahead of schedule.
11.       The ARDC disbursements in support of loans to small farmers, as of
the same date, was about 60% of total disbursements (appraisal target 50%).
12.       The total number of schemes sanctioned was 828 for which the
total ARDC commitment amounted to Rs 2,838 M (US$315 M), an average of
Rs 3.4 M (US$0.4 M) per scheme. About 15% of the ARDC commitment (17% of
schemes) was in the less developed eastern and north eastern States; 28%
42



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(26% of schemes) in other under-developed States, and the remaining 57%
(57% of schemes) in other States. About 91% of the disbursements were for
minor irrigation and 9% for diversified lending (appraisal estimates of 93%
and 7%, respectively). About 75% of ARDC disbursement was to LDBs and 25%
to commercial banks.
13.       A training cell has been set up in ARDC to organize LDB staff
training included in the project. The program is well under way and full
details are in Annex 6.
14.       The project also included the following features:  (i) a revised
small farmer definition; (ii) establishment of a standing committee to for-
mulate common requirements for issuance of LDB debentures; (iii) common
criteria relating overdues with eligibility for issuance of LDB debentures;
and (iv) introduction of identified Districts having intensely developed or
potential problem areas relating to groundwater for which additional studies
would be required before ARDC sanctioned schemes there. All of these features
have been successfully implemented and show good results.
15.       The ARDC I provided for a study of the feasibility of merging
short-term and long-term cooperative credit institutions. The study has
been completed and the report strongly recommends a merger; GOI is expected
shortly to decide on implementation of the recommendations.
16.       The ARDC I is making satisfactory progress; disbursements are up
to appraisal estimates, all project terms and conditions fulfilled, and all
studies completed. Although it is too early to assess project benefits
the results of ARDC lending for similar projects indicate that rates of return
for this project are unlikely to differ greatly from appraisal estimates.
Preliminary results from evaluation studies are shown in Tables 2 and 4.
C. Market Developments
17.       Two projects for market development viz., Bihar market yards, and
Karnataka agricultural wholesale markets are under implementation. These
projects were designed to help with establishment of wholesale markets in a
number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the Bihar project has
generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in Bihar was delayed due
to legal challenges arising out of the State's acquisition of land for market
sites; however, these difficulties have been satisfactorily resolved. Con-
struction of markets is well advanced and a number have opened for business.
Progress under the Karnataka project is much less satisfactory, however,
largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design and construction.
These problems and remedial actions have been brought to the attention of
the State and Central Government. The project is being monitored closely
to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implementation.
43



ANNEX 1
Page 5
D. Fruit Processing and Marketing
18.       The Himachal Pradesh apple processing and marketing project is
designed to promote apple processing and marketing. The project, which com-
prised grading and packing centers, cold storage, juice processing plant,
road improvement and cable ways, encountered initial difficulties which could,
by and large, be traced to managerial and technical problems. A sub-project
report has been prepared by the Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Produce Market-
ing and Processing Corporation Ltd., in respect of two packing and grading
centers, and these have been earmarked to two commercial banks for implement-
ation.
E. Dairy Development
19.       Three integrated projects for dairy development are being imple-
mented in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. In all these projects,
banking plans for financing dairy unions have been finalized. The ARDC has
organized short duration training programs in Bangalore, Bhopal and Jaipur
for officers of participating banks and other agencies connected with project
implementation. In Rajasthan, a Dairy Development Corporation has been set
up and key staff appointed. The ARDC has also given clearance for technical
services for two dairy unions. In Madhya Pradesh, a Dairy Development Corpo-
ration has also been set up and senior staff positions filled. One scheme
covering the technical requirements of Bhopal Dairy Union has been cleared by
ARDC. Detailed design studies for plant construction are expected to commence
shortly. In Karnataka, there has been some delay in project implementation.
Improvement is now expected with the recent appointment by the Karnataka Dairy
Development Corporation of a management consultant.
F. Command Area Development
20.       Three command area development projects, two in Rajasthan and one
in Madhya Pradesh are under implementation. The respective State governments
have set up a command area development authority for each project. Banking
plans required under these projects have been finalized. In command area
development, the entire area coming within a chak is fully developed. In
the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Rajasthan), ARDC has cleared
technically one catchment area program while in the Rajasthan Canal Command
Area Development Project, 302 chaks have been cleared. In the Madhya Pradesh
project, two schemes have been technically cleared by ARDC. The fourth project,
viz., Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project
envisaging command area development on 72,000 ha in four irrigation commands
in Andhra Pradesh was sanctioned by IBRD in June 1976. One of the difficul-
ties experienced in effective implementation of the command area program was
44



ANNEX I
Page 6
the need to find resources for development of farms, the owners of which were
not eligible for normal banking loans. The ARDC, in consultation with GOI,
has now formulated a scheme to overcome this and development should now
proceed.
G. Integrated Cotton Development
21.       The Integrated Cotton Development project included all aspects
relating to production of improved varieties of cotton and processing in
selected areas of Punjab, Haryana and Maharashtra. It envisages modernization
of ginning and cotton seed processing facilities and research. A significant
feature of this project is provision of short-term funds for financing short-
term credit requirements of cotton growers. For the first time, ARDC will be
providing refinance against short-term credit. Commercial banks which will
participate in the project have been identified, and necessary guidelines
issued by ARDC.
H. Drought Prone Areas Project
22.       The Drought Prone Areas project, which covers six Districts in
Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Rajasthan, envisages investments
in minor irrigation, sheep and dairy development, horticulture, fisheries,
sericulture, etc. The ARDC is required to prepare a banking plan covering,
inter alia, the volume and type of agricultural credit required, legislative
and institutional changes required to facilitate credit flow, and the role to
be played by various credit institutions in the area. The corporation has
accordingly constituted separate studies for each State and has prepared
banking plans for the six Districts.
I. Seeds Development
23.       Two seeds projects, one in the Tarai region of Uttar Pradesh, and
the other a national seed project, have been sanctioned by IBRD. The loan
to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in the production, process-
ing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding varieties. The Corp-
oration is working effectively and has developed an excellent reputation for
quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants is well under way.
Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and retendering, because
of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery schedules necessitat-
ing an extension of the Closing Date by one year to December 31, 1977. With
regard to the national seed project, the National Seeds Corporation has with-
drawn from seeds production as planned, having handed over to State Seeds
45



ANNEX I
Page 7
Corporation (SSC). Detailed production programs, by variety and responsible
institution, have been prepared for breeder, foundation and certified gen-
erations. GOI and State Governments have made equity contributions to SSC
thus ensuring financing of major project activity. Orders will shortly be
placed for processing machinery to provide bridging capacity pending the
construction of new processing plants. Tender documents for the first pur-
chases of farm machinery have been finalized.
24.       A summary of projects showing effective dates, closing dates and
disbursements is given in Table 1.
April 1977
46



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of Bank Group Projects Financed through ARDC
Credit   Effective   Closing   Project         IDA    Disbursed to
No.      Date          Date       Cost    Credit   December 31.1976
-------US$ (H-------
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Gujarat                        191        9/70       3/75        67.0      35.0        35.0
Punjab                         203        9/70       6/77        40.0      27.5        16.8
Andhra Pradesh                 226        5/71       6/77        45.0      24.4        22.2
Haryana                        249       11/71       6/77        44.5      25.0        25.0
Tamil Nadu                     250       11/71       6/77        62.3      35.0       29.6
Karnataka                      278        9/72       6/77        70.4      40.0        34.6
Maharashtra                    293        1/73       6/77        51.9      30.0        30.0
Madhya Pradesh                 391       10/73      12/77        59.7      33.0        30.1
Uttar Pradesh                  392       10/73      12/77        72.5      38.0        20.0
Bihar                          440        3/74       6/77        60.0      32.0       11.8
ARDC                           540        8/75      12/77       168.5      75.0        31.2
West Bengal                    541        8/75       3/80        67.0      34.0         0.5
Sub-total                                         808.8    428.9       286.8
MARKETS
Bihar                          294        7/72      12/78        23.3      14.0         2.4
Karnataka                      378        9/73      12/79        12.0       8.0         0.4
Sub-total                                          35.3      22.0
PROCESSING
HP Apples                      456        9/74      12/78        21.7      13.0         1.3
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT
Karnataka                      482       12/74       9/82        63.7      30.0          -
Rajasthan                      521        8/75      12/82        51.8      27.7         0.2
Madhya Pradesh                 522        7/75       6/82        31.2      16.4          -
Sub-total                                         146.7      74.1         0.2
COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
Rajasthan                      502       12/74       6/81       174.0      83.0        23.6
Chambal                        562        9/75      12/79        46.6      24.0         1.9
Chambal (Rajasthan)           1011       12/74       6/81        91.5      52.0         9.6
Andhra Pradesh                1251         -        12/82       297.0    145.0           -
Sub-total                                         609.1    304.0         35.1
INTEGRATED COTTON                610        8/76      12/81         30.0     15.0          -
DROlGHT PRONE AREA                526        6/75       6/80        21.7      35.0        2.1
SEEDS
Tarai Seeds                    614        9/69      12/76         22.4     13.0         9.2
National Seeds.               1273         -         6/81         52.7     25.0          -
Sub-total                                          75.1      38.0         9.2
Total                                    1748.4    933.0        337.5
47



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Summary Results from ARDC Evaluation Studies-/
Land Development                  Minor Irrigation
Karnataka   Andhra Pradesh   Maharashtra          Haryana
Sample size                        78              76               39                 118
Benefitting area (ha)                3.0             3.0              2.0                 3.5
Cropping intensity (%)            176             185              114                 179
Average net income from
benefiting  area (Rs)          9,055           6,742            3,210              10,678
Incremental net income from
benefiting  area (Rs)          7,939           5,806            2,548               4,616
Financial Rate of Return (%)   over 50          over 50             29               over 50
Total investment (Rs)           3,005           3,435            n.a.                n.a.
1/  The ARDC Evaluation Cell which was set up in January 1974 has conducted the
following four evaluation studies of land development and minor irrigation
schemes:
(i) Land Development Scheme in Karnataka.
(ii) Land Development Scheme in Andhra Pradesh.
(iii) Minor Irrigation Scheme in Maharashtra.
(iv) Minor Irrigation Scheme in Haryana.
Reports on the land development studies have been published; the results from
the minor irrigation schemes are, however, preliminary.
48
March 25, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Financial and Economic Indicators
From Gujarat Agricultural Project (191-IN) PCR
------- Area ----
1/
Hardrock
1.  Financial Results Per Farm                     (Saurashtra)        Alluvial
Estimated average farm size - ha                   8                 6
Incremental gross irrigated area - ha              3.5               7.0
Investment cost - Rs 2/                       18,300            34,900
Incremental net income from
irrigation - Rs 3/                          4,000             7,400
Financial rate of return  (%)                     12 4/             30
Completion         Appraisal
2.  Economic Rates of Return (%)                    Estimate           Estimate
Hardrock (Saurashtra) areas                      13
Alluvial areas                                   34
Whole project                                    28                 23
1/ The hardrock model represents about 45% of project loans and the
alluvial model about 30%
2/  Average per investment in minor irrigation in 1975 prices
3/  1975 prices
4/  The low rate of return resulted from successive two years of
severe drought.
49



SECOND AGRICULTURAL REPFNANCE AND DEVS.2?CORPORATION CREDIT FF03ECT
Preliminarv Resultsfron Farm B§fit Survev in.Andhra Pradesh
Mricultural Credit Pro)ect (?26-TN)
( average per b>eneficiary)
--------------------------------------- Dugwells --------------------------------------           ---- Dugwell and Pumpset -----           --Filterpoints--
Rock Formation     Rock Formation      Rock Formation    Rock Formation   Rock Formation         Rock Formation    Rock Formation          Rock Formation
Granites           Quartzites        Cry_ rallines         Basalts           Shales              Granites          Khondalites             Alluvium
Ohr  Small    Other      Small    Other                                                                                     Small      others
Farmers  Farmers   Farmers  Farmers   Farmers  Farmers   Other Farmers    Other Farmers            Other FarmerE      Other Farmers        Farmers   Farmers
1.  Benefitting area (ha)                 1.2       1.5       1.5       1.2       1.2       1.4           1.7               1.3                  1.4                2.8               1.1       1.7
2.  Investment cost (Rn)                 2,955    4,820      5,600    6,118      1,800    2,550          7,422             4,714                9,742             14,000             3,200     4,846
3.  Value of gross produce (RIt)-        3,100    5,157      3,870    3,576      2,295    2,793         13,367             4,385                5,911             12,500             7,150    10,186
4.  Production costs (Rs)-!              1,635    2,419      2,000    1,633      1,115    1,435          5,85h             1,776                2,301              4,290             2,662     4,746
5. Net farm income (Rsj-/                1,465    2,768      1,870    1,943      1,180    1,358          7,509             2,609                3,610              8,210             4,488     5,440
6. Net Incremental income (Rs) /           704    2,026      1,353       920     1,060    1,011          7,282             1,824                2,973              2,430             3,245     1,720
7.  Financial Rate of Return (8)            24        42        24        15    Over5O        40       Over 50                39                   29                 15           Over 50         30
_/ According to IDA definition.
2/  In 1976 prices.
R ote: The above are preliminary results from a sample survey of beneficiaries under the project,                                                                                                     1
o         conducted and analyzed by Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Development Bank (LDB).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Groundwater and Minor Irrigation
Geology and Physiography
1.        India has an area of 328 M ha and, physiographically, there are
three large regions: (a) the northern mountains; (b) the Indo-Gangetic
plains; and (c) the peninsula.
2.        The northern mountain region (Himalayan range) with elevations
which often exceed 7,000 m is a rugged area of intensely folded and faulted
mountain chains of geologically recent origin. The rocks are primarily sedi-
mentary, with a core of young granitic intrusions. Mountain-building forces
are still active with frequent earthquakes of varying magnitudes.
3.        The Indo-Gangetic plains with elevations generally less than 300 m
were formed by a deep sag in the earth's crust, probably contemporaneous with
the Himalayan uplift, that has been filled with alluvial sediments derived from
higher lands to the north and, to a lesser extent, lower hills to the south.
4.        The peninsula with elevations generally ranging between 200 and
1,000 m occupies most of the country in the south and is an ancient stable
plateau or shield developed on the underlying igneous and metamorphic rocks.
A large area of the western part of the plateau has been covered with a
thick series of horizontal lava beds (Deccan trap) and some younger sedimen-
tary rocks have been deposited along the narrow coastal plains of both the
Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.
Climate
5.        The major climatic features are:  (a) Himalayan mountains in the
north, a barrier against cold air masses of Central Asia, giving the coun-
try the elements of a tropical climate; and (b) the ocean on the south, the
source of moisture-laden monsoon winds. Although climatic and weather con-
ditions are widely diverse throughout the country, the five distinct regions
with a fairly uniform broad pattern are:
(a) northwest India -- western Rajasthan, Punjab and
adjacent areas;
(b) north-central India -- eastern Rajasthan, Gujarat,
Haryana, northern Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and
Bihar;                                                          51



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(c) peninsula India -- southern Madhya Pradesh and the
peninsula to the south;
(d) eastern India -- Orissa, West Bengal, Assam and
adjacent north eastern states; and
(e) coastal plains -- bordering the peninsula along the
ocean.
6.        The southwest moitsoon begins at the end of May or early June and
continues until December. During this period, the country receives most of
its rainfall, particularly June-September, when most areas receive 80% or
more of the total annual rainfall. The distribution of annual rainfall,
which ranges from 200 to 300 mm in the western Rajasthan desert to more
than 5,000 mm along the Western Ghats of the peninsula and in the hills of
Assam, is shown on Map 12630. The duration of the monsoon is at a minimum
in the northwest region and at a maximum in the southern peninsular region.
For rainfed agriculture, the crucial months are July and August, and the
amount and distribution of rain in these two months largely determines the
fate of kharif crops.
7.        In addition to definite seasonal distribution of rainfall, there
are frequently large monthly variations from normal, from one year to
the next. Rainfall is most uncertain in Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and
Rajasthan, the same areas of lowest total annual rainfall.
8.        The average temperature range throughout the year is 10C to 150C
in the southern coastal areas, increasing to 25 0C or more in the northern
inland. The coldest period throughout the country is in December-January
when mean maximums vary from 290C in parts of the peninsula to 180C in the
north and mean maximums from 240C in the extreme south to below 5°C in the
north. During March to May, there is a steady rise in temperature with the
highest values, exceeding 480C, occurring in the north in May (particularly
in the northwest desert areas). With the advent of the southwest monsoon by
early June, there is a rapid fall in maximum temperatures in the central areas.
Generally, temperatures are practically uniform over the two-thirds of the
country which gets good rainfall during the monsoon. Temperatures generally
begin to decline throughout the country by August.
9.        Evaporation rates closely follow the seasons, reaching a peak in
the summer months of April and May, particularly in the central areas where
evaporation is highest. With the beginning of moisture-laden monsoon winds
and heavy rainfall in June, there is a marked fall in evaporation rates.
Total annual pan evaporation, in cm, is shown on Map 12630.
52



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Soils
10.       The four major soil groups are alluvial, black, red, and laterite.
Of lesser importance are forest, desert and saline-alkaline soils. Indian
soils, like most tropical soils, are generally deficient in organic matter
and nitrogen. Phosphate deficiency is less prevalent and potash deficiency
is rare.
11.       Alluvial soils form the largest and mostimportant group, occurring
principally in valleys of the Indo-Gangetic and Br#hmaputra river systems as
well as other river valleys and along coastal areas. Occassional features
of these soils are the occurrence of hardpan at certain levels in soil pro-
file and presence of lime concretions ("kankar"), particularly in the Indo-
Gangetic alluvium of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi. Soils are generally
well suited for irrigation of crops.
12.       Black soils ("regur" or "cotton soils") occur chiefly in Andhra
Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka.
These soils have been formed from the weathering of basalts of the Deccan
trap and granites, gneisses, and schists of the peninsula. As a group they
are fine-textured with 40% to 60% clay, plastic and sticky when wet, and
very hard when dry. Upon drying, they shrink and cracks may develop to the
depth of a meter or more. Good sub-surface drainage is a requirement in irri-
gated areas to prevent development of salinity and waterlogging problems.
13.       Red soils, derived from weathering of acidic igneous and metamorphic
rocks, occupy large areas of southern India (Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala,
southeast Maharashtra, eastern Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh) as well
as some localities in Orissa, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. Soils are
typically friable, permeable, well drained, easily managed and well adapted
to irrigation.
14.       Laterite soils occur mostly in the south near margins of the penin-
sula. They are primarily a mixture of hydrated oxides of iron and aluminum,
low in organic matter and most plant nutrients, with good drainage capacity.
Surface Water
15.       To assess broadly the available water resources, there are six
major regions: Indus Basin; the Ganges system; the Brahmaputra system; East
Coast rivers; West Coast rivers, and the Rajasthan region. A summary of data
on each region is in Table 1, and the location of principal rivers is on
Map 12630.
16.       Of the estimated total average runoff of 167.3 M ha meters, it is
estimated that 66.5 M ha meters (40% of the total) could be utilized for ir-
rigation. Most of this potential is within the Ganges system, East Coast
rivers, and Tapti and Narmada river basins of the West Coast region.
53



ANNEX 2
Page 4
17.       The annual flow pattern of rivers with sources in the Himalayas is
markedly different from those originating in the peninsula area. In those
with Himalayan sources, the dry weather flow is significantly increased by
water from melting snows and glaciers, and at no time is the flow so reduced
as in peninsula rivers where heavy discharges occur during monsoons followed
by very low discharge (base flow from ground water inflow) during rainless
months. Variations in mean monthly flows of peninsula rivers of the order of
1 to 300 are common.
Groundwater
i8.       Occurrence.  Groundwater occurrence throughout India can be gener-
alized into five broad categories which relate to the geology and physiog-
raphy of the country (Map 12630): (1) areas of alluvial deposits along
major rivers and coastal zones; (2) areas of crystalline "hard rock" in the
peninsula; (3) consolidated sediments along coastal areas; (4) thin alluvium
and wind-blown sands of the Rajasthan desert; and (5) mountainous areas of
the north and east.
19.       Alluvial aquifers are the most important category both from the
standpoint of present development as well as future potential. Water is
developed from permeable silts, sands and occassional gravels within the
alluvium by means of open (dug) wells and tubewells. Most of the alluvial
aquifers are in the Indo-Gangetic plain and Brahmaputra valley, with minor
additional areas along major river valleys and on the eastern and western
coasts of the peninsula. The total thickness of alluvium in the Indo-
Gangetic plain may be as much as 1,000 m or more in places but deep tube-
wells for groundwater development are seldom drilled below depths of 300 to
500 m. The pumping rats from typical installations is 150-200 m /hsur for
deep tubewells, 25-50 m /hour for shallow tubewells, and up to 25 m / hour
for dug wells.
20.       The "hard rock" area of groundwater occurrence is also of great
importance because such a large area of the country is included (essentially
all of the peninsula) and also because much of the area receives insufficient
rainfall so that irrigation is essential to crop production. Aquifers of
the area are the upper weathered and jointed zones of underlying crystalline
igneous and metamorphic rocks (granites, gneisses, and schists). In the
large area underlain by basalt flows (Deccan trap), the water occurs along
interflow zones as well as in the upper weathered zone and joints or cracks
in the rock. The depth of weathering varies, being typically 5 to 15 m, and
occasionally as much as 25 to 30 m. Development is usually with dug wells,
some of which have been deepened with small diameter bore holes to increase
yield (dug-cum-bore wells). In many areas, small diameter drilled bore wells,
to depth of 35 to 50 m, will produce as3much water per day as open dug wells.
Typical well yields are from 50 to 75 m /day.
54



ANNEX 2
Page 5
21.       Consolidated sediments, such as sandstone, occur primarily along
coastal margins of the peninsula and furnish groundwater to tubeweils.
Typical wells are from 30 to 150 m deep with yields of 20 to 100 m /hour.
22.       In the Rajasthan desert area of the northwest, consolidated rocks
are typically covered with thin deposits of wind-blown sand or occasional
alluvium. Because of scanty and unreliable rainfall, there is little oppor-
tunity for extensive additional groundwater development in this area.
23.       The principal occurrence of groundwater in the mountain areas of
northern and eastern States is from small alluvial deposits along stream
valleys. Much of the bedrock is relatively unweathered which, in combina-
tion with steep topography, makes wells generally infeasible.
24.       Recharge.  The principal recharge to groundwater comes from infil-
tration of direct precipitation on an area, or from deep percolation resulting
from irrigation. In some areas, seepage from unlined irrigation canals is
a major source of recharge. Lateral subsurface inflow from adjacent areas
can be significant in some alluvial terrains, particularly along the southern
foot hills of the Himalayas. Rivers and streams are not generally sources of
recharge except where immediately adjacent to channels during flood runoff.
Exceptions to this would include rivers crossing alluvial fans on lower
Himalayan slopes and dissipation, by seepage, of flow in ephemeral streams
of western desert areas.
25.       Recent estimates of annual recharge in each State, together with
present utilization, has been prepared by State groundwater organizations
and CGWB and are given in Table 2. These estimates, amounting to about 31 M
ha m total recharge, tend to be more qualitative than quantitative. The pres-
ent need is for more precise evaluation of recharge from all sources, based
upon reliable field and laboratory measurements rather than empirical formulas,
particularly is areas which are already intensively developed.
26.       Quality.  Groundwater quality is generally good throughout India,
suitable for irrigation and other uses, except for some areas along the coast
as well as a few limited interior locations. The principal coastal areas with
salt water in aquifers are in southern West Bengal, Orissa, Tamil Nadu and
Gujarat. Fairly extensive areas of saline groundwater are found in the inte-
rior in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh with more minor occur-
rences at scattered localities in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.
Many of the interior occurrences are the result of high evaporation in irri-
gated areas with inadequate drainage; in some cases salinity is concentrated
in shallow zones and fresh water is encountered at depth.
27.       Utilization.  An estimated 11 M ha m of groundwater were withdrawn
in 1973/74 (Table 2). This amounts to about 35% of total estimated annual
recharge, ranging from a negligible percentage in Assam, Jammu and Kashmir,
and Kerala, to more than 50% in Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan,
55



ANNEX 2
Page 6
and Tamil Nadu. Almost all groundwater used is for irrigation. Industrial,
domestic and livestock requirements are estimated to be less than 5% of
total withdrawals. Growth in net area irrigated from wells and other sources
since 1950/51, and distribution by States for 1970/71, is given in Table 3.
The Indo-Gangetic plain States of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and
West Bengal comprise only 20% of the area of the country yet account for more
than one half of groundwater used and net area irrigated from wells.
28.       Control.  Gujarat is the only State which has enacted groundwater
legislation to prevent local over--exploitation. A model law was drafted by
GOI designated "The Groundwater (Control and Regulation) Bill" and circulated
in December 1970, to all State governments for their consideration. The model
law would enable State governments to designate areas where regulation of
development was considered necessary and to control, through a permit and
license system, construction of wells and extraction of groundwater. Con-
tinued efforts should be made to encourage early adoption of adequate control
by enacting legislation in each State.
29.       Some degree of control of groundwater utilization and development
is becoming increasingly necessary in many localities in order to: protect
water quality; protect existing water users by preventing excessive inter-
ference and lowering of water levels, and to prevent local developments from
exceeding available average replenishment which results in "mining" of water.
In the absence of adequate legislation, some measure of control has been
achieved in existing IDA and ARDC credit projects by requiring a minimum
spacing between wells financed under these projects. The degree of control
achieved may be unsatisfactory, however, because it does not apply to pri-
vately financed developments.
30.       There is general agreement that overdevelopment and related prob-
lems, such as water quality, exist (or will soon exist) in certain localities.
It is difficult to define these localities geographically since hydrologic
boundaries seldom coincide with political subdivisions. Since there is vir-
tually no existing groundwater control legislation, and it does not appear
that there will be within the next several years, it is recommended that parts
of certain Districts within several States be designated, for this project, as
"intensively developed and/or potential problem areas". It is further recom-
mended that no investments be made for groundwater development in these par-
ticular localities until the appropriate State government has either instituted
acceptable controls over sinking of new wells in those areas, or carried out
further technical studies proving that there is no longer a problem in those
areas and that such areas could, at the discretion of ARDC, be removed from
the problem list.
31.       The special justification reports should include more detail than
has usually been developed in the past for such items as available recharge
(from all sources), reliability of recharge, present withdrawals, historical
and present water level fluctuations, water quality, and well construction
considerations, etc. Use of empirical formulas or rule-of-thumb methods
56



ANNEX 2
Page 7
would generally be unacceptable. Actual field and laboratory measurements
should be presented and some test drilling or test pumping (of adequate
duration) might be required.
32.       The areas of 57 Districts in ten States recommended for such desig-
nation as "Intensively Developed and/or Potential Problem Areas" are listed
in Schedule A. In some of these areas listed, the problem may occur in only
a part of the area and, upon submission of adequate justification, certain
villages might be excluded from the designation; similarly, as additional
development takes place or data becomes available, it may be necessary to
add new areas.
33.       Guideline criteria for minimum well spacing, well density, and
permissible water quality for this project are given in Schedule B. The
ARDC would be permitted to relax these criteria only after a careful review
and approval of supporting data as to local conditions that would justify
such action.
Staff and Institutions
34.       Existing technical staff of ARDC, GOI and States are adequate to
carry out their aspects of minor irrigation work proposed in this project.
Additions to existing staff are planned in all States, and will be necessary
in some cases, if major lending programs are to be implemented. In past
years, most existing staff capability throughout India has been directed
towards finding and developing groundwater, with emphasis on geology and
drilling. The primary need at this time is to increase attention given
to quantitative evaluation and management of groundwater resources, with
emphasis on hydrology.
35.       Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC).  The
technical staff of ARDC involved with minor irrigation schemes includes a
headquarters group in Bombay and field technical units in Calcutta and
Lucknow. The Calcutta unit reviews all schemes in the eastern area (Orissa,
West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, and north eastern States) and the Lucknow office
reviews work in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Final review of all
schemes, and sanctions, are at the Bombay office.
36.       In Bombay, the unit is headed by a deputy director assisted by two
senior and two junior technical analysts; one more analyst is in the process
of joining. The Calcutta unit is headed by a deputy director with one analyst,
and there is another analyst in Lucknow. Present ARDC plans provide for an
additional 50 persons on their technical staff -- about one-half being in
minor irrigation or land development functions. Some of this added staff,
mainly intended for regional offices, should be in post by June 1977.
37.       The principal function of ARDC staff is to review minor irriga-
tion schemes proposed by States, both from technical feasibility (availabil-
ity of water, proper design, etc.) and economic aspects (adequacy of cost
57



ANNEX 2
Page 8
estimates, etc.). This function is properly and adequately exercised at
present, but an irrigation engineer is needed on the headquarters staff to
direct the review of an increasing number of lift irrigation and deep tube-
well applications. He is scheduled to be in post by July 1, 1977.
38.       Central Groundwater Board (CGWB).  The CGWB was established in
1970 by GOI to replace the Exploratory Tubewells Organization which had
been created in 1954 to investigate and test the thick alluvial aquifers
of the Indo-Gangetic plain. In 1972, the groundwater wing of the Geological
Survey of India was merged into CGWB to establish a single organization in
central government concerned with groundwater investigation and development.
39.       In addition to conducting special investigations throughout the
country (including drilling and testing of wells), CGWB has the important
responsibility of assisting State groundwater organizations and coordinating
State programs. Experienced CGWB personnel are frequently assigned to work
with States in building up and training local staffs. The CGWB headquarters
are near New Delhi, with seven regional and seven special project offices
throughout the country.
40.       State Institutions.  Almost all States have established organiza-
tions for conducting hydrological investigations as well as units which pro-
vide custom service in boring and deepening dug wells, and in drilling tube-
wells. Administratively, these organizations may be under any one of a number
of headings such as Departments of Agriculture, Minor Irrigation, Public Works,
Irrigation, Mines and Geology, etc. or Tubewell Corporations, Agro-Industry
Corporations, etc. Unfortunately, in individual States these functions may
be divided administratively, and this often hampers fullest coordination of
groundwater activities. A tabulation of current professional and sub-
professional staffing, by States, is in Table 4.
41.       Each State groundwater organization has plans for increasing staff
and strengthening capability, and many organizations are implementing such
plans. All States are considered capable of preparing and analyzing schemes
for this project although some may need assistance from ARDC or CGWB while
they are building staff capability. The magnitude and rate of future lending
under the project, in States with weaker staffs, will depend somewhat upon the
rate at which staff can be strengthened.
Training
42.       Since 1966, CGWB has given courses in groundwater and water well
techniques to senior level professionals from State organizations and from
their own staff. Tamil Nadu has also offered training courses to members
of their own staff as well as to candidates from other States. So far this
58



ANNEX 2
Page 9
training has been adequate, but to meet India's minor irrigation expansion
program it would be advisable for GOI to carry out a study of future training
requirements so that a program could be included in the next agricultural
credit project.
March 1977
59



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Surface Water Resources - Estimated Runoff
Esti-
mated
Major River                     Catchment                          Annual  Utilizable
Region      Basins       States             Area     Rainfall  Temperature  Runoff  Runoff
(M ha)      (mm)          (°C)    (M ha m) (M ha m)
Indus     Ravi         Jammu & Kashmir      35.4       560        12.6        7.9     4.9
Basin     Beas         Punjab
Sutlej       Haryana
Himachal Pradesh
Ganges    Ganges       Uttar Pradesh        97.6     1,110        16.8       49.o    18.5
system   Yamuna       Haryana
Chambal      Rajasthan
Chagara      Madhya Pradesh
Candak       Bihar
Kosi         West Bengal
Bhrama-  Brahmaputra  Arunachal Pradesh   50.6       1,220        8.2        38.1     1.2
putra    Subansiri    Assam
system   Manas        Nagaland
Teesta       Meghalaya
West Bengal
East      Cauvery      Madhya Pradesh      121.0     1,090        26.1       41.2
Coast     Krishna      Bihar
rivers   Godavari     West Bengal
MAhanadi     Orissa                                                        41.9
Subarnarekha Andhra Pradesh
Damodar      Maharashtra
Mysore
Tamil Nadu
West      Tapti        Gujarat              49.2     1,220        25.5       31.1
Coast     Narmada      Maharashtra
rivers   Mahi         Mysore
Sabarmati    Kerala
Rajasthan              Rajasthan            16.8       290        26.2         -        -
Total:        370.6          -          -      167.3    66.5
December 14, 1976
60



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Groundwater Availability and Utilization - 1973/74
Annual      Annual      Unused        Percent
State                       Recharge     Draft      Balance      Utilization
-    ------ M ha m --- -'
Andhra Pradesh                3.26        1.05         2.21          32
Assam*                        1.46        0.03         1.43           2
Bihar                         2.57        0.61         1.96          24
Gujarat                       1.22        o.83         0.39          68
Ilaryana                      1.00        0.60         o.40          60
Jammu & Kashmir               0.25         0.01        0.24            4
Karnataka                     1.28        0.38         0.90          30
Kerala                        O.94        0.01         0.93           1
Madhya Pradesh                3.05        o.49         2.56          16
Maharashtra                   2.15        0.75         1.40          35
Orissa                        1.27        0.20         1.07          16
Punjab                        1.10        o.84         0.26          76
Rajasthan                     O.85        o.69         0.16          81
Tamil Nadu                    1.46        O.86         o.60          59
Uttar Pradesh                 7.65        3.33         4.32          44
West Bengal                   1.95        0.39         1.56          20
Total:                     31.46       11.07        20.39          35
December 14, 1976
* Includes other northeastern states.
61



ANTNEX 2
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Net Area Irrigated by Sources 1970/71
(thousands ha)
State                  Canals      Tanks      Wells       Others       Total
Andhra Pradesh          1,581      1,113         510         109       3,313
Assam*                    365          3           1         339         708
Bihar                     815        168         551         626       2,160
Gujarat                   207         30        962           10       1,209
Haryana                   950          2         575           5       1,532
Himachal Pradesh            -          -           1          90          91
Jammu and Kashmir         272          -          1            6         279
Karnataka                 421        365        259           92       1,137
Kerala                    211         73           5         142         431
Madhya Pradesh            710        130         562          78       1,480
Maharashtra               313        225         821          68       1,427
Orissa                    262        583         45          259       1,149
Punjab                  1,291          -      1,591            6       2,888
Rajasthan                 757        271      1,083           21       2,132
Tamil Nadu                884        897        775           36       2,592
Uttar Pradesh           2,494        374      4,034          288       7,190
West Bengal               963        302         16          208       1,489
Union Territories          25          7         44            9          85
All India (1970/71)    12,521      4,543     11,836        2,392      31,292
(1969/70)    12,256      4,448     11,146       2,490       30,340
(1968/69)    11,894      3,956     10,813       2,362      29,025
(1965/66)    10,947      4,270      8,653       2,473      26,343
(1960/61)    10,370      4,561      7,290       2,440      24,661
(1955/56)     9,385      4,423      6,739       2,211      22,758
(1950/51)     8,295      3,613      5,978       2,967      20,853
*  Incluues other north eastern states.
December 14, 1976
62



ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State Groundwater Organization Staffing - November 1976
Groundwater Investigation       Drilling and
State                Professional  Sub-Professional    Development-
Andhra Pradesh            65              43                    7
Assam                     82             109                  445
Bihar                     21               9                   31
Gujarat                  109              92                  244
Haryana                   97             148                  189
Karnataka                125              20                  282
Kerala                    11               8                    4
Madhya Pradesh            74             177                  363
Maharashtra              189              17                  932
Orissa                   119             127                  247
Punjab                     9              11                   68
Rajasthan                 89              22                  679
Tamil Nadu                96             139                  800
Uttar Pradesh             35              48                   27
West Bengal               24               8                    2
Total:               1,145             978                4,320
December 14, 1976
63



ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Irrigation Wells
Anticipated Achievement as at June 30, 1974
(thousands)
Private    State(deep)       Electrified
State            Dug Wells    Tubewells    Tubewells            Pumps
Andhra Pradesh        600.0         30.0           -           253.0
Bihar                249.6          25.0         1.8           100.5
Gujarat              610.0           1.5         1.4           105.0
Haryana                31.0        162.0         1.1           135.0
Jammu & Kashmir         6.o            -          .1               .4
Karnataka             350.0           .7           -           190.0
Kerala                  5.0          1.0           -            38.0
Madhya Pradesh        700.0          1.2          .1           130.0
Maharashtra           764.5           .4           -            315.0
Orissa                40.0            .1          .3           125.0
Punjab               160.0         162.0          .9            75.0
Rajasthan            700.0            .6          .1           715.0
Tamil Nadu         1,035.4          50.0           -                _
Uttar Pradesh      1,280.5         382.0        12.8           235.0
West Bengal             2.9         4o.o         2.0              2.0
Others                   .1           .1           -              3.0
Total              6,535.0         856.6        20.6         2,421.9
Source: C.W. and P.C. (P.W.); R.E. Directorate (July 11, 1973).
December 14, 1976
64



ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Villages Electrified as on March 31, 1974
(thousands)
% Electrified
State                Total           Number Electrified         (of total)
Andhra Pradesh        27.2                  10.3                    37.9
Assam                 21.5                   1.2                     5.6
Bihar                 67.6                   9.6                    14.2
Giujarat              18.3                   5.6                    30.6
Haryana                 6.7                  6.7                   100.0
Himachal Pradesh      16.9                   4.5                    26.6
Jammu & Kashmir         6.5                  1.4                    21.5
Karnataka             26.8                  12.6                    47.0
Kerala                 1.3                   1.3                   100.0
Madhya Pradesh        70.9                  10.7                    15.1
Maharashtra            35.8                 16.9                    47.2
Manipur                 1.9                  0.2                    10.5
Meghalaya               4.6                  0.1                     2.2
Nagaland               1.0                   0.1                    10.0
Orissa                47.0                   8.1                    17.2
Punjab                12.2                   7.1                    58.2
Rajasthan              33.3                  5.8                    17.4
Tamil Nadu            15.7                  13.8                    87.9
Tripura                4.7                   0.1                     2.1
Uttar Pradesh        112.6                  29.8                    26.5
West Bengal            38.1                  8.7                    22.8
States Total:        570.6                 154.6                    27.1
Other Territories       5.2                   1.1                    21.2
All India Total:      575.8                155.7                    27.0
Source : National Commission on Agriculture, 1976
December 14, 1976
65



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Cooperative Banks, Cooperative Land Development
Banks and Commercial Banks
I. Cooperative Banks
Background
1.        Cooperatives are constituted under State law and within each State
there is a three-tiered cooperative structure: primary cooperative societies
(PCSs) at village level; District central cooperative banks (DCCBs) at District
level and State cooperative banks (SCBs) at State level.
2.        The agricultural cooperative system in India has been operating for
several decades although its performance, especially at the primary level,
has been far from satisfactory. Many PCS, are small in membership, financial
resources and volume of business. This alone can account for a major por-
tion of unsatisfactory operations. Small organizations cannot afford nor
justify employment of qualified, competent, full-time management. Although
PCSs extend short- or medium-term loans, the preponderance of such loans are
short-term. Many PCSs have incurred excessively high overdue loans and bad
debts; this, along with poor financial operations, raises a question as to
their viability. Concern in this area has resulted in top priority being
given to reorganization and rehabilitation of weak primary societies.
3.        A major criticism of the cooperative system, particularly credit
societies, is that their activities benefit mainly larger farmers, although
small farmers comprise the majority. In order to ensure a credit flow to
small and marginal farmers, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) insists that at
least 20% of DCCB's outstanding borrowings from SCB should be covered by
outstanding loans to societies for small and economically weak farmers.
4.        Farmers have often been unable to realize the full benefit from
their investments to increase production because of lack of supplies, proces-
sing and marketing facilities as well as other supporting services. Where
institutions or agencies for these exist, there is a need for better coor-
dination. Better coordination between the two types of credit societies, SCB
and land development banks (LDBs), would ensure that farmers would be provided
with timely production credit to fully complement the investment undertaken
with funds from long-term credit societies. In accordance with the terms of
ARDC I, a committee was appointed by GOI to study the feasibility of merg-
ing the short- and long-term cooperative institutions. The report of the
66



ANNEX 3
Page 2
committee, which strongly supports a merger, has been published, and GOI has
asked RBI to appoint a cell to further study the committee's recommendation.
The GOI expects to make a decision on the recommended merger during the
next few months. A summary of the main recommedations of the committee is
in Appendix 1.
Primary Cooperative Societies (PCSs)
5.        The main functions of PCSs are the provision of short- and medium-
term credit, supply of agricultural and other production requirements, and
marketing of agricultural produce. The number of PCSs has decreased from
about 157,800 at the end of June 1972 to about 153,800 at the end of June
1974. During the same period, however, total membership increased from
about 32 million to 35 million. About 18,100 dormant societies were await-
ing final action either by revitalization or by liquidation. The recovery
position of PCS has been deteriorating over a number of years and has reached
the point that prompt action needs to be taken if many societies are to remain
viable. A more complete discussion on overdues can be found later in paras
16-19.
District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCBs)
6.        The DCCB constitutes the intermediate tier, and coordinates cooper-
tive credit activity within the District, receives and distributes for all
PCSs and supervises lending activities. Each DCCB generally has a number of
branch offices in the District and a staff of credit inspectors to carry out
its functions. Caliber of management and staff varies considerably. The
overdues position is causing concern although it does vary from State to State.
Action needs to be taken to correct this situation (paras 16 to 19).
State Cooperative Banks (SCBs)
7.        The SCB coordinates and guides the affairs of other tiers in the
cooperative credit structure in each State. Members of SCB are the DCCB
and the State government. The SCB provides short- and medium-term loans to
finance farmers through their member PCS. The preponderance of loans issued
by SCB is short-term credit for seasonal agricultural operations. The problems
of overdues is not so serious at the SCB level since the overdues are mostly
absorbed at lower tiers. Although overdues in aggregate terms have been
increasing at the SCB level in recent years, improvements are showing in
some States (Table 1).
Rescheduling of Cooperative Overdues
8.        Heavy overdues can result from natural calamities such as drought
or flood. In order to afford relief to cultivators in times of natural
calamity, stabilization funds have been built up with RBI at different levels
of the cooperative credit structure, and also at the national level.
67



ANNEX 3
Page 3
II. Land Development Banks (LDBs)
9.        The long-term cooperative credit structure is made up of two tiers,
State land development banks (SLDBs) at State level, and primary land devel-
opment banks (PLDBs), or branches of the SLDB, at village level. The pattern
in most States is a federal structure while seven State/union territories have
a unitary structure. Two States have a mixed organizational pattern.
10.       The PLDB raise funds from share capital and deposits but the most
important source are borrowings from SLDB. The SLDB funds mainly come from
share capital, deposits, loans and grants from State governments, and sale
of debentures.
11.       The PLDB loans must be secured by a first mortgage on land.
Applications for loans are reviewed as to the purpose for which funds will
be used, and a financial analysis is made to determine incremental income
that will accrue to the applicant as a result of the investment. Loan
repayment is expected to be made from incremental income. The PLDB com-
mittees approve loans using lending criteria established at the SLDB level.
12.       Lending operations, which had been declining, are presently showing
significant growth. The main problem of the LDB is heavy overdues, the level
of which varies from State to State, and which, in some States, continues to
persist at high levels. The RBI and the Agricultural Refinance and Develop-
ment Corporation (ARDC) have invoked sanctions in an effort to bring about
improvements in the overdues situation and provisional figures for 1975/76
show some improvements (Table 2). Eligibility of PLDB and SLDB branches for
issuance of new debentures during the year is related directly to recovery
performance during the preceding years. The amount of the lending program
is a specified percentage of disbursements made during the previous year or
the annual average for the previous three years, whichever is the higher,
according to the following scale:
Eligible Lending Program
(% of loans issued to the
previous year or annual average
Range of Overdues      for the previous three years,
(% of Demands)            whichever is higher)
0 - 25                   Unrestricted
26 - 35                       80
36 - 45                       70
46 - 55                       60
56 - 60                       50
61 - 100                      Nil
13.       As of October 1, 1977, or such other date as may be agreed between
IDA and ARDC, no SLDB branch or PLDB shall be eligible for refinance unless
it achieves an actual recovery rate of not less than 65% of demand. Minor
68



ANNEX 3
Page 4
amendments to the criteria, usually of a temporary nature, may be made as
agreed between IDA and ARDC. These restrictions, although severe, are nec-
essary and already have led to some successful State-supported recovery
drives to avoid a reduction in lending programs.
14.       Management is perhaps the largest factor contributing to poor LDB
performance and high overdues. It is imperative that management be upgraded
and that LDB staff be improved in order to handle the increasing lending pro-
gram and more complex financing. For that reason, an extensive LDB staff
training program which started under ARDC I would be included in this project.
Most LDB management staff are seconded from State government cooperative
departments and are subject to transfer at any time. It would be advisable
for such staff to be on direct LDB establishment; this would provide better
job satisfaction and more continuity. Similarly, it would be beneficial for
LDBs to establish their own technical units to meet diversified lending needs.
For this to be achieved, however, a wider interest spread would be required.
The Role of Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
15.       The RBI has the main responsibility for developing the cooperative
banking structure over which it has statutory control. It has a special
Agricultural Credit Department whose functions are to: (i) study all ques-
tions of agricultural credit and be available for consultation by central
government, State government, SCB, and other banking organizations; and
(ii) coordinate RBI agricultural credit operations and its relations with
SCB and any other banks engaged in agricultural credit. The RBI conducts
inspections of all cooperative banks, gives direction as to the purpose for
which advances are to be made, authorizes the opening of new branches and
controls the raising of funds from the issue of ordinary debentures.
Overdues
16.       The overdues situation is serious and every effort should be made
to correct it as soon as possible. Provisional figures for 1975-76 suggest
that improvements have been made in a few States during the recent year, but
generally,   overdues have been increasing in the cooperative banking system
and in some cases have reached high levels. The RBI, GOI and other agencies
have been concerned over this problem; RBI appointed a study team to look into
the matter. The team reported that no one group of farmers was responsible
for overdues but that all farmers, small, medium, and large, were similar in
this respect. It concluded that lack of will and discipline among these bor-
rowers were the prime factors attributing to overdues. Deficiencies in
lending policies and procedures, such as untimely credit, over-financing,
and unrealistic due dates also contribute to the problem. State governments
in some cases were instrumental in creating an unfavorable climate for recovery
of loans. Defaulters of cooperative loans were financed by some State govern-
ments through taccavi loans. Some State governments subsequently decided to
69



ANNEX 3
Page 5
write off their agricultural loans and this also created a sense of compla-
cency in the minds of borrowers from cooperatives. In some cases, members
of the Managing Committees of the cooperative have displayed an attitude of
indifference in the matter of recovery.
17.       The team appointed by RBI recommended a number of steps to be taken
to gain control of this problem. Their recommendations included automatic
disqualification of Managing Committee/Board Members, denial of new credit
and voting rights to defaulters, as well as amendments to the cooperative
societies act in the various States empowering the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies to issue orders of his own motion to recover cooperative arrears
as land revenue. The team also took the position that defaulters should
not be financed by State governments, not even in the form of inputs. Very
often there is a lack of bidders when defaulters' lands are put to auction.
It was recommended, therefore, that concerned State governments purchase the
lands in auction or set up a farming corporation which may take the land
after settling the debt, and dispose of it by sale or long-term lease. The
RBI has conveyed these recommendations to State governments and cooperative
banks.
18.       The RBI and ARDC have invoked certain sanctions as discussed in
paragraph 12. These sanctions, while restricting lending and, therefore,
agricultural development in those areas which are served by cooperative
lending institutions which have high overdues, should be helpful in getting
cooperative institutions to face up to their problems and to take correc-
tive actions. Although there is extreme reluctance to do so, a policy on
re-scheduling loans should be developed whereby the agricultural producer
can be given more time to recover from adversities such as natural calam-
ities, and meet loan repayments. The present policy of spreading a missed
payment over the next four years may not be an adequate solution. Perhaps
it would be more beneficial to defer payments to the end of the loan thereby
giving the borrower one or more additional years to meet the final repayment.
However, caution must be exercised in administering such a policy.
19.       Extension of credit on a sound basis is a prerequisite to collec-
tion of loans. In addition, management must see that loans are properly
supervised, and remain alert to possible problems which might arise. When
defaults occur, management must be willing and able to initiate action to
collect the loans. Cooperation of State governments and the judicial system
is essential to ensure a satisfactory level of recoveries.
III. Commercial Banks
20.       Since the nationalization of major banks in 1969, commercial banks
(CBs) have made significant progress in financing agriculture although it has
taken some time to develop staff expertise to handle agricultural loans.
Bank branches have been established in rural areas to reach rural population
and to permit banks to better supervise credit. Additional bank branches are
70



ANNEX 3
Page 6
proposed and will further broaden CB network. Although relatively new to
agricultural lending, CBs have become an important part of agricultural
finance and complement the cooperative banking system. Since CBs have
acquired and trained a specialist staff and opened numerous branches,
they are in a better position to play a more significant role in agricul-
tural credit.
21.       The CBs have been at a disadvantage with cooperative banks in such
matters as right of recovery, stamp duty, registration fees, etc., and this
still exists in some States. Appropriate legislation has been enacted in
ten States to correct inequities and draft bills are ready in seven more
States. State governments also need to update land records and simplify
registration of charges procedures.
Regional Rural Banks (RRB)
22.       The GOI has proposed that 50 RRB be set up in various Districts to
provide loans to small farmers, agricultural laborers, rural artisans, small
entrepreneurs and persons of small means engaged in production. The RRB are
sponsored by CB and capital is being subscribed by central government, State
governments and sponsoring banks. Several RRB have already commenced opera-
tions. The RRB are scheduled commercial banks and can become members of ARDC
and be eligible for refinance assistance. It is not anticipated, however,
that these institutions will approach ARDC during their initial years of
existence.
Village Adoption Scheme
23.       The CBs have been adopting villages for intensive financing of
agriculture. Such a scheme not only permits banks to be in a position to
meet credit requirements for groups of farmers but also enables them to
keep a closer watch on end use of loans and to better supervise credit.
Agricultural Development Branches
24.       The State Bank of India Group has launched a new strategy in agri-
cultural lending by establishing Agricultural Development Branches in each
of the States. These provide comprehensive credit facilities for minor
irrigation, land improvements, and seasonal requirements.
Farmers' Service Societies
25.       The CBs have established 51 Farmer Service Societies mainly in
small farmer development areas in 12 States to provide farmers not only
credit but also agricultural inputs and extension services at one location.
This eliminates the need for farmers to approach several different agencies
and face possible constraints such as giving adequate security to different
institutions or incurring a multiplicity of service charges. As these
societies have only fairly recently been formed, it is too early yet to
assess to what extent they are successful.
71



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Guarantees for Agricultural Loans
26.       The Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, a subsidiary of RBI,
provides guarantee cover to CBs for all types of agricultural loans granted
to eligible borrowers. The cover extends up to 75% of the outstanding balance.
Adoption of Primary Societies
27.       Under this arrangement, which is in force from 1970/71, primary
agricultural cooperative societies have been ceded to CBs so that weak and
dormant societies may be activated.  This arrangement has enabled the CB
to serve a cluster of borrowers through the medium of a society, and helped
them to enlarge their coverage. Some 22 CBs are participating in the scheme
in eleven States. In all, 3,241 societies have been taken over of which
1,831 have been financed.
Lead Bank Scheme
28.       Each CB in the public sector and a few in the private sector have
been assigned certain Districts in various States. The designated " lead
bank" is responsible for surveying the District for potential bank develop-
ment, branch extension and credit expansion. The banks are also expected
to conduct in-depth studies of limited areas in each District with a view
to drawing up developmental plans. The lead bank is expected to act as a
consortium leader to bring about a coordination of cooperative banking,
commercial banking and other financial institutions.
72



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of the Main Recommendations of the Committee on
Integration of Cooperative Credit Institutions
1.        The terms of reference of the Committee included:
(a) To review the position of the two wings of the coopera-
tive credit structure in the different State/union ter-
ritories and to examine whether integration of the two
wings will be advisable from the point of view of serv-
ing the objective of lending adequate support to the
massive investment program in agriculture;
(b) To examine whether the integration may be brought about
simultaneously at all levels of the two wings of the
cooperative credit structure or may it be done in a
phased manner at the different levels;
(c) To examine the structure of management and the staffing
pattern at the intermediate and higher levels of the
integrated units of the two wings of the cooperative
credit structure, so that they may be able to handle
satisfactorily short-term, medium-term and long-term
agricultural credit;
(d) To examine, in particular, the organization and staffing
pattern at the base level which is expected to deal with
farmers so that it may be able to integrate the different
types of credit with supplies of agricultural inputs,
marketing of agricultural products, technical guidance,
etc.;
(e) To examine the amendments necessary to the Cooperative
Societies Act, the Cooperative Land Development Banks
Act, the rules framed thereunder, the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 (as applicable to cooperative societies),
any other relevant laws, by-laws and the business rules
of the concerned institutions;
(f) To make recommendations on other related aspects, which,
in the opinion of the Committee, are important.
73



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
2.        The principal recommendations of the Committee included:
(a) That the two wings of the cooperative credit structure
should be integrated at all levels, and that a period
of three years would be adequate to complete the integra-
tion from the time a decision is taken to bring about
integration.
(b) That a special cadre of professional bankers be created
to man the post of chief executives (Managing Directors)
in both the State Cooperative Development Banks and
District Cooperative Development Banks with clear divi-
sion of functions between the chairmen and the chief
executives of the banks. The chief executive will be
a full-time paid professional banker selected from the
cadre suggested above and have qualifications comparable
to those defined under section lOB of the Banking Regu-
lation Act for the Chairman of the Board of Directors
of a banking company.
(c)  That wherever the banks have to retain Government staff,
pending appointment of their own staff, the control over
the Government staff should vest with the Banks and such
staff should not be liable to frequent transfers. In
suitable cases, Government staff who have acquired exper-
tise and are working in the banks may be absorbed in the
bank's services.
(d) That to enable quick disposal of applications for term
loans and preparation of credit limit statements for crop
loans, the system of "farmers' pass-books" as obtained
in certain States with constant updating is recommended.
(e) That wherever land cannot be offered as security,
hypothecation of movable assets created out of loans
granted by the PCS should form the security for loans.
Where even hypothecation of movables is not possible,
as is the case with several small farmers and landless
laborers, loans may be backed by group guarantees.
(f) Where land is available as security for loan, to simplify
the procedure for creating security in favor of the PCS,
a new form of security should be created, i.e., a special
charge to be known as GEHAN; this can be effected by a mere
declaration by the borrowers and at the same time would
have all the characteristics of a valid mortgage without
its cumbersome formalities. The charge so created in
favor of the society should be assigned in favor of the
higher financing agency for the purpose of obtaining ne-
cessary resources for loaning.                                  74



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPlENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Summary and Recommendations of the Talwar Committee
The Governor of the Reserve Bank of India appointed, in September
1969, an Expert Group with the following terms of reference:
(i) To examine the provisions of the State laws relating to
abolition of intermediaries, land tenure and tenancy reforms
and similar other enactments which confer different degrees
of rights in land on the tenant-cultivators and landholders
belonging to backward classes, tribals, etc., with particu-
lar reference to right of transferability through sale or
mortgage or right to create a charge on land/crops and to
suggest modifications, if any, required to facilitate their
dealings with the commercial banks;
(ii) To examine the State laws relating to agricultural debt
relief and regulation of moneylending, with particular
reference to regulation of interest rates, scaling down
of past debts, priority to charges among the different
credit agencies, recovery of overdues, etc., and to
suggest modifications, if required, in favor of institu-
tional credit agencies;
(iii) To exam-ine the provisions of the State legislation imposing
ceiling on land holdings, and to suggest modifications, if
any, in regard to lands coming into the possession of the
institutional credit agencies, because of foreclosures;
(iv) To examine the provisions of various land reforms legisla-
tion relating to the regulations on sale of land applicable
to lands coming into the possession of institutional credit
agencies during the process of recovery of loans in respect
of: (a) categories of persons to whom agricultural land
could be sold, (b) the price at which land could be sold,
(c) leasing out of land temporarily, (d) sale of fragments,
(e) right of pre-emption of adjoining landholders, etc., and
to suggest amendments or administrative measures for safe-
guarding the interest of the institutional credit agencies;
(v) Other related measures/actions which will increase the com-
mercial banks' participation in agricultural development
program.
75



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 2
A summary of the Group's recommendations is given below:
Legislative Provisions
Land Alienation Rights of Agriculturists
(i) Cultivators who have no rights or have only restricted
rights of alienation in their lands or interests therein -
such as landholders belonging to schedule tribes/castes,
backward classes/castes, tenant cultivators, fragment
holders, allottees of Bhoodan land and of Government land
- should be vested with rights to alienate land/interest
in land held by them in favor of banks for the purpose
of obtaining loans for agricultural purposes;
(ii) In the case of share-croppers, who form a special cate-
gory and who do not have any recorded rights in land, banks
would be able to grant loans only if their status is pro-
perly recorded in the record of land rights. Further, they
should be enabled to create a charge on the crops raised
by them, notwithstanding the fact that they are not the
owners of the land over which the crop is raised by them.
Priority of Charges
(iii) The general principle of priority as between institutional
credit agencies in regard to loans based on common security,
should be as adumbrated in the Transfer of Property Act,
1882. This will ensure that the concept of first charge in
favor of cooperatives does not adversely affect commercial
banks. However, all institutional credit agencies should
have priority of charge vis-a-vis private credit agencies.
(iv) The restriction of alienation of land subject to a charge in
favor of a cooperative should be relaxed so as to permit sub-
sequent alienation thereof for securing supplementary credit
from another institutional credit agency. This would be
similar to the provision by which property subject to a
charge in favor of a cooperative credit society is allowed
to be alienated in favor of a land development bank.
(v) On the same basis, where crop loan for current production
purposes is granted by one institutional credit agency and
term loan for development purposes is granted by another
institutional credit agency against common security,
priority of security should accrue to the agency providing
term loan provided the encumbrance in its favor was made with
the knowledge and concurrence of the institution holding the
76



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 3
encumbrance for crop loan for current production purposes.
The existing priorities under the cooperative legislation
as between the cooperative credit societies and land mort-
gage banks will remain unaffected.
(vi) As between two institutional credit agencies providing term
loans for development purposes against common security, priority
of claim should arise according to the point of time of creation
of encumbrances.
(vii)  On the analogy that the simplified procedure pertaining to the
creation of a charge on land/interest in land by declaration in
favor of cooperatives facilitates expeditious disposal of loan
applications, provision should be made to enable agriculturists
to create a charge on land/interest therein by declaration in
favor of commercial banks. Appropriate arrangements should also
be made to have such charge noted in the record of rights and
in the office of the Sub-Registrar.
(viii)  To overcome the prolonged delays involved in securing registra-
tion of mortgages created in favor of commercial banks, it is
necessary to provide that it would be sufficient if a copy of
the mortgage deed is sent for registration to the Sub-Registrar.
The mortgage so created should also be noted in the record of
rights.
Recovery and other Operational Difficulties
(ix) Enactments relating to moneylending regulation and debt relief
should exclude commercial banks from their purview.
(x) To facilitate prompt recovery of dues of commercial banks
without having to resort to protracted and time consuming
litigation in civil courts, the State Government should
empower an official with authority to issue an order, having
the force of a decree of a civil court, for payment of any
sum due to a bank by sale of the property charged/mortgaged
in favor of the bank.
(xi) As banks may have need to foreclose mortgages of land executed
in their favor, bring the property to sale and purchase the
property if there are no bidders at auctions conducted for
the purpose, they should be permitted to purchase the land
and, if necessary, acquire land in excess of the ceiling limit
fixed. However, State Governments may fix a time limit within
which land acquired by banks is to be sold. Ultimate disposal
of land by banks will, of source, have to be subject to State
enactments as regards the persons to whom the land can be
sold etc.
77



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 4
(xii) In order to facilitate commercial banks financing agriculturists
through primary agricultural credit societies, the societies
should be made eligible to borrow from commercial banks. Fur-
ther, the commercial banks concerned should be eligible for
such facilities as are ordinarily available to a central
cooperative bank.
Administrative Measures
(xiii) To enable banks to get adequate and reliable information
about the operational holding of an intending borrower and
the nature of his interest therein to support his bonafide
interest in land and cultivation, the urgency to bring land
records up-to-date has been reemphasized.
(xiv) Meanwhile, it is urgently necessary to prepare and maintain
interim registers indicating the existence of share-croppers
and other informal tenants and the particulars of land cul-
tivated by them; unless this is done, this class of cultiva-
tors may not be able to get adequate support from institutional
credit agencies.
(xv) As and when land records are brought up-to-date, pass books
such as those already in vogue in some States may be issued
by State Governments to owners and tenants so that such a
pass book can serve as prima facie evidence to the rights in
land of an agriculturist and as a starting point to banks to
verify such rights and details pertaining to encumbrances
thereon.
(xvi) Cultivators borrowing from commercial banks should be exempted
from payment of stamp duty, registration fee and charge for
issue of non-ecumbrance certificate to the extent to which
they are eligible for these concessions if they borrow from
cooperatives.
(xvii) The number of centers where equitable mortgages can be created
in favor of commercial banks for the purposes of agricultural
borrowing needs to be increased until such time as the legis-
lative and other measures recommended by the Group are given
effect to.
78
Source: Report of the Expert Group on State Enactments having a bearing
on Commercial Banks lending to Agriculture - Bombay, 1971.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Review of Status of Agricultural Credit and Agricultural
Credit Institutions on a State by State Basis
A Statewise review of the organization for agricultural institu-
tional credit and bottlenecks to credit flow are presented in the following
paragraphs:
(i) Andhra Pradesh
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
Twenty six district central cooperative banks (DCCB) have federated
to form a State cooperative bank (SCB) at apex level and credit requirements
are being met by nearly 15,000 primary affiliated agricultural cooperative
credit societies (PCS) at the village level. Twelve DCCB have, however, been
in the process of rehabilitation since 1972, which means that provision of
seasonal agricultural and marketing credit is hampered considerably and this
will affect development. PCS have also been taken up for reorganization with
the ultimate aim of having only 7,000 viable units, each having a minimum loan
business of Rs 0.2 M. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been watching this
program and is in touch with the State Government to speed up this process.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The long term cooperative credit structure consists of the Andhra
Pradesh Cooperative Central Agricultural Development Bank at the apex level
with 201 primary agricultural credit development banks (PLDB) at village
level. PLDB operations, more particularly the recovery performance of the
banks during 1975-76, have been quite encouraging. No serious bottlenecks
are envisaged in their ability to provide adequate credit.
Commercial Banks
The commercial banks (CB) have 1,539 branches in the State. The
difficulties experienced by the commercial banking structure in the free
flow of agricultural credit in the State were: (a) inadequate coverage of
rural areas and rural population; and (b) paucity of trained personnel.
The lead banks in the State have, however, taken initiative in identifying
growth centers with a view to opening branches either by themselves or with
other banks. The inadequacy of trained personnel is also being overcome
by selection of suitable staff and giving them adequate training. The State
Government has already brought legal changes whereby CB are now placed on a
79



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 2
par with the cooperative banks insofar as their lendings to cooperative
societies are concerned. As regards their direct lendings, certain conces-
sions on registration charges and on encumbrance certificates have also been
extended to all borrowers owning up to 5 acres of wet land or 10 acres of dry
land irrespective of whether they borrowed from CB or cooperatives. The State
Government has also prepared a draft Bill on the lines of the recommendations
of the Talwar Committee (see Appendix 2).
(ii) Bihar
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Bihar State Cooperative Bank is functioning at the apex level,
with 28 DCCB at central level, and 16,500 PCS at village level. The entire
intermediary tier comprising 28 DCCB has been identified as weak. Sixteen
banks have been taken up for rehabilitation under the central sector plan
with the approval of the Government of India (GOI). The high level of over-
dues and low operational efficiency has been responsible for the slow progress
of cooperative credit. However, the recovery performance of DCCB is reported
to have considerably improved in 1975-76 enabling many of these banks to
become eligible for credit limits from RBI in the current year.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Bihar Rajya Sahakari Bhoomi Vikas Bank Ltd., has a network of
124 branches. The bank issued loans of the order of Rs 162.2 M in 1975-76.
The overdues of these banks which were 34% in 1974-75 came down to 28% in
1975-76. As many as 116 branches are now eligible for unrestricted lending
after taking into account the State Government contribution to equity up to
10% of demand. A notable defect in the system is that key personnel are drawn
from the various departments of the State Government and as a result LDB
control over them is limited. An Ordinance issued by the State Government in
December 1975, does not facilitate diversification of lendings by LDB. A
section of the Ordinance, by implication, requires LDB to provide loans only
for purposes connected with land.
Commercial Banks
At the end of June 1976, there were 953 CB branches of which 414
were in rural centers. Further proposals are under way to open about 350
offices in the State, mostly in the unbanked rural and semi-urban and urban
centers. Two regional rural banks (RRB) have also been established. During
1975, CB advanced Rs 248.5 M as direct advances, and Rs 66.5 M as indirect
advances for agriculture. Of the direct advances, nearly 80% were granted for
acquiring farm machinery such as tractors, pumpsets, and installation of
tubewells.
80



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 3
Difficulties of Commercial Banks
The recommendations of the Talwar Committee have been accepted only
partially. The State Government is expected to promulgate an Ordinance some-
what on the lines recommended by the Talwar Committee so that similar facil-
ities are available to all institutions in providing agricultural credit. The
paucity of trained staff and inadequate staff of the branches in rural areas
is another difficulty. To overcome this, CB staff are trained in the agricul-
tural project courses organized as part of ARC Credit Project (ARDC I) at
College of Agricultural Banking, Poona for senior and middle level staff.
Problems Common to All Institutions
(a) The State has frequently been ravaged by floods which has
hindered regular flow of bank credit to agriculture and contributed to
overdues. (b) There has been delay in consolidation of land holdings and
consequently the small and marginal farmers, who are scattered, are pre-
vented from taking advantage of long term investment credit from banks. (c)
Farmers' response to switch over to new technology is poor. This underlines
the need for extension support.
(iii)     Gujarat
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The short term credit structure in the State is fairly strong.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Gujarat State Land Development Bank (SLDB) has 182 branches
covering the entire State. During the past two years, a high level of over-
dues has caused a setback in the loan business of the bank. The SLDB obtained
only Rs 35 M refinance from ARDC during the last two years. The poor recovery
performance could, by and large, be traced to drought conditions prevailing in
most parts of the State. The facility of rescheduling of loans in the drought
affected areas has not been availed of fully. The recovery performance of
SLDB at 56.3% of the demand at the end of 1975-76 is better as compared to
about 46% at the end of the previous year. Recently, RBI also recommended
that the SLDB reschedule loans in the drought affected areas so that overdues
reflect the true position. One of the constraints of SLDB is that all its
loans, under its Act, require to be secured by mortgage of immovable proper-
ties and this inhibits the bank from lending for diversified non-land based
investments.
Commercial Banks
At the end of June 1975, 1,166 CB branches were operating in 19 dis-
tricts of the State. The State Government has generally been averse to CB
financing long term investments in agriculture. The recommendations of the
Talwar Committee L..- -1- to be given effect to, hence CB do not enjoy the
same facilities as those of cooperative banks.
81



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 4
(iv)      Haryana
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
Twelve DCCB have federated to form the Haryana State Cooperative
Bank Ltd. at the apex level. 2,138 PCS are functioning and all the soci-
eties are viable having a minimum loan business of Rs 0.3 M each; which is
more than the RBI recommended level of Rs 0.2 M. The structure is quite
strong and can be expected to take care of the seasonal credit and marketing
requirements of farmers.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Haryana State Land Development Bank Ltd. has 29 PLDB. One of
the features of the working of the LDB system has been the consistently good
performance by LDB in the matter of recovery of loans. SLDB implemented a
substantial part of the IDA Agricultural Credit project for minor irrigation
and farm mechanization in the State. The main difficulty faced by LDB has
been the depletion of underground water resources in certain parts of the
State, thereby, placing limitations on the expansion of LDB business. Diver-
sification of its lendings is necessary if the volume of operations is to be
at a stable level. A constraint is that the SLDB Act permits only loans
against mortgage of landed security.
Commercial Banks
390 branches of scheduled CB are functioning in the State, of which
158 are operating in rural areas. The State Government has passed legislation
giving effect to the recommendations of the Talwar Committee. The State Gov-
ernment has also frequently reviewed the implementation of ARDC schemes and
assisted in the removal of bottlenecks.
(v)       Jammu & Kashmir
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
There are three DCCB operating in the State, besides the Jammu &
Kashmir State Cooperative Bank Ltd., at the apex bank level. All three DCCB
have been identified as weak and consequently require rehabilitation. Pro-
duction and marketing credit is, therefore, a problem. This matter is being
pursued by RBI.
Long Term Credit Cooperative Structure
The Jammu & Kashmir Cooperative Central Land Development Bank is
serving the State through its 21 branches. Because of the existence of a
high level of overdues, the operations of the bank have been at a low key.
82



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 5
Commercial Banks
There are 232 CB branches. The State Government has not taken any
action to implement the Talwar Committee's recommendations.
Common Problems
No assessment of groundwater resources has been made. Land holdings
are small. The State is surplus in fruits and other horticultural produce, and
marketing is a problem because of the nature of terrain and transport problems.
These constraints inhibit flow of term credit.
(vi)      Karnataka
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The reorganization of PCS has been taken up by State Government. It
is expected that the number of societies which are at present 8,300, will be
brought down to 4,300 viable societies. This is expected to lead to smoother
flow of cooperative credit.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Karnataka State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd., has 176
PLDB affiliated to it. The Bank floated debentures of the order of Rs 184 M
in 1975-76 exceeding considerably the previous year's achievement of Rs 114 M.
Out of 176 PLDB, only 119 are entitled to unrestricted lending program and
due to high overdues the others will have a reduced lending program. Diver-
sification of lending operations of the bank is hampered by the provision in
the Statute which stipulates creation of mortgage of land as security for all
loans.
Commercial Banks
There were 1,852 CB branches as on March 26, 1976 functioning in the
State. The State Government has accepted the recommendations of the Talwar
Committee and has enacted Karnataka Agricultural Credit Operations and Miscel-
laneous Provisions Act, 1974. This enactment has, by and large, removed
constraints for CB flow of credit to agriculture.
Common Problems Inhibiting Flow of Credit
Preponderance of small holdings is noticed in this State. About 30%
of the holdings are of a size of 1 ha and below. 88 taluks in 12 districts
are drought affected and programs are to be specially tailored to those areas.
Technical guidance from extension services is reported to be inadequate.
83



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 6
(vii)     Kerala
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Kerala State Cooperative Bank has 11 DCCB affiliated to it with
1,731 PCS at the village level. An RBI committee examined the justification
for continuance of DCCB. Taking note of their financial position and organi-
zational arrangements, the committee felt that DCCB were not equipped to take
up the responsibility of direct financing in a large area and a five year time
limit has been recommended for improving their operations. PCS have been
taken up for reorganization. When this program is completed, there would be
1,600 viable societies. Recently, another committee has recommended the
conversion of about 168 societies as farmers' service societies.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The long term cooperative structure is federal and there are 30 PLDB
functioning in addition to the SLDB. These banks had disbursed loans of the
order of Rs 34.6 M at the end of June 1975, and the recovery performance has
been encouraging. Although the Kerala Cooperative Land Mortgages Banks Act,
1960, as such, does not stipulate grant loans for purposes of acquisition of
land and land improvements only, the byelaws of the bank restrict the granting
of loans only for land and land improvement purposes. To diversify the lend-
ing operations of the banks, the byelaws would have to be amended.
Commercial Banks
At the end of July 1976, 11 districts of Kerala had 1,474 CB
branches. In view of the small land holdings in Kerala, there have been
limitations for investment credit for agriculture such as farm mechanization
equipment. CB are yet to make agricultural credit on an 'area' basis on a
sizeable scale. The State Government has not so far implemented the recom-
mendations of the Talwar Committee. The number of places where equitable
mortgages can be created is also limited.
(viii)    Madhya Pradesh
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Bank has 43 DCCB affiliated to
it. At the base level there are 9,651 PCS. The working of the short term
credit structure was reviewed by an RBI committee and a program of action has
been suggested.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The long term cooperative credit structure in Madhya Pradesh is
federal with 45 PLDB at district level. There has been a steady growth of
LDB business and there has also been an improvement in the number of branches
which are eligible for unrestricted lending during the current year.
84



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 7
Commercial Banks
Madhya Pradesh is served by 1,013 branches of CB and the population
covered per branch is about 42,000 as against 116,000 per branch at the end of
June, 1969. The opening of new branches and appointment of special staff for
agricultural credit, better coordination between the banks and improved exten-
sion services have enabled CB to lend more for agricultural investment. The
State Government has implemented the recommendations of the Talwar Committee
giving CB further momentum in agricultural lending. Under the IDA Agricul-
tural Credit Project, CB have been given a sizable share of the lending
program.
Problems Inhibiting the Flow of Credit
The main difficulties experienced by the banks in agricultural
lending are: (a) Adequate assistance from extension agencies is not always
available to CB. Identification of borrowers and canvassing of loan appli-
cations is not done by the Agriculture Department to the extent required.
(b) Land records are not up to date in some cases. (c) Verification of
utilization of loans given by LDB is done by the State Government department
and there is delay in furnishing of utilization verification certificates
leading to delay in the disbursement of subsequent installments.
(ix)      Maharashtra
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank has 26 DCCB affiliated to it
and there are 19,495 PCS at village level. An RBI study team examined the
working of the short term cooperative credit structure and recommended that
the SCB may finance PCS directly, bypassing DCCB in areas where the magnitude
of the credit gap was large. 9 DCCB are under a rehabilitation program drawn
up by GOI in consultation with RBI. In the context of the poor recovery per-
formance of the village societies, the scheme of reorganization of the socie-
ties with full time qualified trained secretaries has also been suggested.
The State Government has drawn up a program of amalgamation/liquidation of
non-viable societies and this is likely to be completed by June, 1977.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The long term cooperative credit structure is unitary and the
Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd., functions through
its 27 branches and 271 sub-branches. One of the disquieting features of the
working of the long term structure is the high level of overdues, attributed
partly due to the vagaries of nature. The IDA Supervision Mission which
visited Maharashtra in December, 1975 had recommended that the LDB should:
(a) make determined efforts to improve recoveries; (b) review its interest
rates to ensure a spread adequate to meet administrative expenses and to



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 8
maintain acceptable reserves; (c) to review its organization with a view to
reducing its administrative expenses; and (d) write off bad debts considered
by the commitc..E which looked into the problem of overdues to be irrecoverable,
and create adequate reserves for bad and doubtful debts. The LDB is taking
steps to remedy the situation and the ARDC has also been following it up so
that speedy solutions could be arrived at. The State Government has recently
agreed that dairy development is one of the purposes for which LDB can advance
loans.
Commercial Banks
Maharashtra is served by a good network of 2,381 CB branches. The
working of the lead bank scheme was recently reviewed by RBI and certain defi-
ciencies in its oparation, such as slow progress in regard to formulation of
district credit plans, ineffective linkages between the lead bank and the
operating banks and government agencies, and lack of appreciation on the part
of government officials to propose suitable projects have come to light. A
number of suggestions have been offered for ensuring effective operation of
the scheme with emphasis on formulation of bankable schemes dovetailed to dis-
trict development plans, SFDA program etc. Despite these deficiencies in the
working of the lead bank schemes, some CB have made notable progress, partic-
ularly under ARDC refinanced schemes.  The State Government has also accepted
and given effect to the recommendations of the Talwar Committee. The rele-
vant Act extends to CB special privileges available to cooperatives under the
Maharashtra State Cooperative Societies Act in the matter of creation of
charges, recovery of dues by banks, and settlement of disputes through arbi-
tration, etc.
(x)       Orissa
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The short term cooperative credit structure in Orissa comprises
the Orissa State Cooperative Bank at the state level, 17 DCCB covering 13
districts and 3,352 PCS. The working of the short term credit structure has
certain weaknesses such as: (a) inadequate distribution of PSC; (b) low mem-
bership; (c) poor loan recovery; (d) managerial inadequacy; and (e) unsatis-
factory financial performance and lengthy administrative formalities.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Orissa State Land Development Bank has 55 PLDB affiliated to it.
There has been some improvement in the performance of the SLDB and the PLDB
during the past two years. The recovery position of these banks has also been
good. As mortgage of land is essential for loans from LDB, the SLDB cannot
lend for diversified purposes without amendment to the relative Act. The
study team constituted by RBI to prepare a Banking Plan for the IDA Eastern
Region Foodgrain Project has made a number of recommendations to improve the
working of LDB and for facilitating greater involvement by CB in term lending.
86



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 9
Commercial Banks
Fourteen major CB are operating in the State through 356 branches.
The population coverage of these banks is about 62,000. CB have been envinc-
ing keen interest in lending for agricultural investment more particularly
under the ARDC schemes. The bulk of the refinance sanctioned by ARDC to
CB has been for minor irrigation investments to be implemented by the Orissa
Lift Irrigation Corporation. There has been a progressive increase in the
number of CB branches in the eastern States, including Orissa. The State
Government has enacted the Agricultural Credit Operations and Miscellaneous
Provision (Banks) Act, 1975 on the lines recommended by the Talwar Committee
making available to CB borrowers the same facilities as are admissible to the
cooperatives. The rules under this Act are being framed.
Common Problems
The existence of unsurveyed land in some districts has tended to
discourage institutional lending. Unless legislative provisions to protect
the interests of the banks are taken they may not come forward to extend
credit on a larger scale. An RBI study team has recommended the enactment of
legislation towards removing this lacuna and the State Government is actively
considering the proposal. About 38% of the population in Orissa constitutes
nomadic tribals. The scheme of development for the betterment of the tribals
should be designed to tie up the interest of tribals with developed lands.
This is being explored. As part of the IDA Eastern Region Foodgrains Project,
the institutional credit system in Orissa was reviewed by ARDC. The IDA
Mission has proposed a timebound action program for accelerating the tempo of
agricultural lending in the State. The ARDC study team report has been
accepted by the State Government and action would emerge on the basis of
recommendations which would pave way for faster agricultural development.
(xi)      Punjab
Short Term Cooperative C-redit Structure
At the apex level, the Punjab State Cooperative Bank is functioning,
while 17 DCCB having 225 branches are operating at the intermediate level.
There are about 11,000 PCS. Punjab has a high proportion of weak DCCB. The
high level of overdues has been hampering the flow of credit especially from
RBI.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd., has 42 PLDB
affiliated to it. Due to continuous exploitation of groundwater resources in
the past, there has been a tapering of demand for minor irrigation investments.
There is urgent need for LDB to explore scope for schemes aimed at better
water management and for diversified purposes.
87



AN4NEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 10
Commercial Banks
870 CB are operating in the State. CB have been actively partici-
pating in the Punjab Agricultural Credit Program which is entirely for farm
mechanization. The only limiting factor in the case of CB is that the State
Government is yet to give effect to the recommendations of the Talwar Com-
mittee. Recently the State Government has promised to take necessary action
in this regard.
(xii)     Rajasthan
The entire State is subject to extreme climatic conditions with
9 districts drought prone. In 5 districts there is a heavy concentration
of tribal population. These factors affect investment opportunities.
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
RBI had made a detailed study of the working of the short term
cooperative credit structure and has recommended the merger of a few weak DCCB
and also a program of reorganization of PCS. The RBI report has been accepted
by the State Government. The work relating to reorganization of societies is
to be completed in a phased manner.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The long term cooperative credit structure is a two tier system,
viz., the State land development bank at State level and PLDB at district
or taluka level. During 1975-76, PDB recovery performance has been good.
As many as 33 out of a total of 35 PLDB are now eligible for unrestricted
lending after taking into account the State Government contribution to equity.
This improved recovery performance gives impetus to LDB to lend on a larger
scale. An RBI proposal for a Management Trainee scheme has also been imple-
mented by the bank. An RBI senior executive has been appointed Chief Exec-
utive of the SLDB. As in the case of several other LDB, the statutory
requirement of mortgage of land prevents diversification of LDB lending
operations.
Commercial Banks
23 CB are operating in the State with a network of 861 branches.
At the end of December 1975 these banks had outstanding agricultural loans
of about Rs 295 M. The State government has enacted Rajasthan Agricultural
Credit Operation (Removal of Difficulties) Act and consequently CB have been
Dlaced on par with cooperative banks in the matter of financing agriculture.
Problems Common to Banks
(a) Inadequate extension support is mainly responsible for poor
demand for investments. (b) Slow pace of electrification delays energization
88



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 11
of pumpsets. (c) Greater care is required to be exercised in the further
exploitation of underground water resources in certain parts of the districts
of Barmer, Ganganagar, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jodhpur and Pali districts.
(xiii)    Tamil Nadu
The short term cooperative credit structure in the State comprising
the Tamil Nadu State Cooperative Bank, 16 DCCB and 5,056 PCS is inherently
strong. The necessary performance of these banks has also been good and the
system could be expected to sustain a sizeable lending program.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The State land development bank has 223 LDB affiliated to it. Be-
cause of drought conditions there has been a severe set-back in PLDB recovery
performance and it is understood that the bank is likely to reschedule these
loans. LDB Act stipulates that loans by LDB should be only for purposes
pertaining to development of land as may be prescribed, and against mortgage
of land. As such, diversification of lending by LDB is not possible.
Commercial Banks
There are 1,983 CB branches in the State. CB have been precluded
from lending for minor irrigation investments as a matter of governmental
policy; this has reduced the volume of their business. CB advances have been
for diversified purposes such as plantations, fisheries, etc. The State
Government is yet to implement the recommendation of Talwar Committee; RBI
has taken this up with the State Government.
(xiv)     Uttar Pradesh
There are 55 DCCB in Uttar Pradesh with the Apex Cooperative bank
at the State level. Short term requirements of farmers are met by nearly
22,000 PCS at the village level. Recently, the State Government launched a
program of reorganization of PCS. After the reorganization is completed,
the number of viable societies would be brought down to nearly 8,000. The
recovery performances of DCCB in 1975-76 have been satisfactory. Conse-
quently, all the banks are eligible for credit limit from RBI. Some of the
identified weak cooperatives have been brought under a rehabilitation program.
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The Uttar Pradesh SLDB functions through 209 branches. These
branches have maintained good recovery performance in 1975-76 and as many as
204 branches are entitled to unrestricted lending program in the current year.
Before the launching of the UP Agricultural Credit Project, LDB had certain
constraints such as non-involvement in scheme formulation, inadequate technical
performance, and inadequate staff for processing of loan applications. These
deficiencies have since been corrected and the banks have been participating in
the UP Agricultural Credit Project on a large scale.
89



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 12
Commercial Banks
Uttar Pradesh is served by 2,187 CB branches of which nearly 928
branches are in the rural areas. The main problem of CB relates to the pau-
city of trained staff, inadequate branch network in rural areas, and lack of
coordination with Government Departments. The RBI branch licensing policy
lays stress on CB extending their branch network. With the advent of the UP
Agricultural Credit Project where CB have been given a sizeable program, some
of the banks have made notable progress in the recruitment of specialized
staff with a view to expanding agricultural credit. The State has also
enacted legislation giving effect to the recommendations of the Talwar Com-
mittee. Six regional banks are functioning in the State, and four more are
likely to be set up soon. The institutional credit system is strong for
the lending for agriculture in the State. However, for both LDB, and CB,
the necessary extension support from Government agencies is inadequate.
(xv)      West Bengal
The cooperative credit structure is weak. The CB branch expansion
program has been tailored towards opening more branches in the underbanked,
unbanked areas, especially in the eastern regions of the country. Conse-
quently, the number of CB rural branches in West Bengal is increasing.
Fragmented land holdings have been causing some difficulty in the extension
of institutional credit for agriculture. Other bottlenecks relate to heavy
overdues of cooperatives, the lack of ownership rights on cultivated land,
non-availability of trained personnel and inadequate extension support from
the State Government. The agricultural extension service in the State has
been recently reorganized and the system is reported to be working very
satisfactorily. This will give momentum for institutional lending for agri-
culture. One of the notable features in 1975-76 has been the recovery per-
formance of PLDB; 22 PLDB out of a total of 26 are now eligible for unre-
stricted lending.
North-Eastern States
(xvi)     Assam
Short Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The short term cooperative credit structure in Assam consists of
the Apex Cooperative Bank and seven DCCB at district level. The system is
very weak because of poor operational efficiency and low recovery performance.
664 Gaon Panchayat level societies have been set up by the State Government,
replacing the old PCS. These socities are mostly dealing in distribution of
essential commodities and the agricultural loans advanced by them are only for
financing high yielding seed varieties. An action program suggested by RBI for
recoveries has not been fully implemented. All the DCCB are weak and dormant.
90



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 13
Long Term Cooperative Credit Structure
The long term credit structure is federal with 16 PLDB affiliated
to the Apex bank. The structure has been beset with the same problems as the
short term credit stucture, viz., poor operational efficency and low recovery
performance.
Commercial Banks
At the end of June 1976, 271 CB branches were operating in the
State. These banks have extended direct and indirect agricultural advances
of the order of Rs 18 M. The State Government has prepared a Bill on the
lines recommended by that Talwar Committee to facilitate adequate flow of
credit for agricultural development.
Problems Common to Banks
Much remains to be done in the State with regard to updating of land
records, exempting CB from the provisions of Assam Fixation of Ceiling of Land
Holdings Act 1956, and increasing the number of notified towns where equitable
mortgages can be created. Transport bottlenecks and poor extension services
have also contributed to the poor development of the region. Land records
are not up to date. There is no focal point of contact at the State Govern-
ment level for bringing about coordination among the various government de-
partments in the formulation of agricultural development schemes as well as
in their implementation. In North Cacher Hills and Mikhir Hills districts
were tribals predominate, the tribals have no alienable rights over lands
cultivated by them. The IDA Eastern Region Foodgrains Project covers the
State of Assam and a detailed study on the institutional system has been
completed by ARDC. Based on the findings of the study team, an action bound
program to revitalize the institutional system in the State would emerge.
Other Northern States
As in Assam, the north eastern region comprising the States of
Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura have been beset with iden-
tical problems viz., weak cooperative credit structure and inadequate coverage
by CB branches. The RBI branch licensing policy has been stressing the need
for opening more branches in the backward regions of the country including
those in the north eastern region. Consequently, there has been gradual
increase in the number of CB branches in these regions. One of the problems
in this region that is retarding institutional credit for agriculture is the
prevalence of Jhumming (shifting cultivation). Another relates to the land
tenure system. In some areas of this region, lands are under the control of
village level councils who allot them for Jhumming purposes. Lack of mortgage
rights in respect of these lands has been the pressing difficulty. Lack of
communications is also hindering the progress of agricultural credit. It has
been the endeavor of ARDC as well as the various agencies to penetrate into
91



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 14
this region. ARDC had conducted pre-investment surveys and has been encourag-
ing CB to take up schemes on the basis of these studies and avail itself of
refinance facilities. In this region, institutional credit is bound to be
slow, but of late some progress has been discernable in some parts, such as
Manipur, Tripura and Nagaland.
Source: Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation.
92



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Rates in India
INTRODUCTION, SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        An important issue relating to the Second ARDC Credit project is the
adequacy of interest rates on State Land Development Bank (SLDB) lending of
ARDC funds. Two distinct problems were raised in this connection: (i) the
economy wide issue of the effect of borrowing and lending rates on resource
mobilization and efficient resource allocation; and (ii) the project specific
issue of the adequacy of the spread between borrowing and lending rates for
the financial viability of the SLDB and commercial banks (CB), which are the
main recipients of ARDC funds.
2.        A survey of the economy-wide issues confirms the complexity of the
detailed analysis required to justify changes in specific interest rates in
India. To treat adequately the complicated term structure of interest rates
in India, the inter-sectoral variations in rates, and the definition and
adequacy of "real" rates is a major undertaking that has not been attempted.
However, initial consideration of these factors does seem to indicate that
none presently pose serious problems for the functioning of the Indian economy.
Furthermore, marginal changes in interest rates are likely to have very little
impact on the overall allocation of investable funds in India with its large
public and joint sectors in which direct allocations of investment predomi-
nate. Therefore, in the context of this project it is recommended that the
Bank not get involved in questions relating to India's overall interest rate
structure.
3.        The micro or project-related issues revolve around:  (i) the long
term viability of rural lending institutions, specifically, the Land Develop-
ment Banks (LDB); and (ii) the determination of appropriate rates of interest
for farmers. Institutional viability depends on the spread between borrowing
and lending rates relative to the administrative costs of the institution.
The future viability of the institutions can be directly anticipated from
the relation between the marginal and average spread. On the basis of the
best available evidence for LDB in India, the marginal spread is less than
the average spread, which implies that some adjustment in the lending rate
must eventually be made if LDB are to remain financially independent. Although
not the preferred alternative, this objective could also be met through State
Government financial guarantees to the LDB, directly or indirectly reducing
their cost of funds. No conclusions are reached here concerning the socially
optimal allocation of administrative expenditures, but conformity to a single
93



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 2
agreed standard is desirable in order to establish a firm criteria of via-
bility. A movement toward lending rate uniformity between LDB and CB also
appears justifiei. Consequently, it is recommended that GOI and ARDC com-
plete a study of the project-related issues and implement suitable corrective
measures.
ECONOMY-WIDE ISSUES
4.        The economy-wide issues focus on the role of interest rates in re-
source mobilization and allocation, specifically the objectives of GOI inte-
rest rate policy and its effect on Government borrowing, inter-sectoral
resource allocation, and the distribution of income. These issues must be
considered in the context of the real level of interest rates, taking into
account price inflation. Finally, one must consider the practical importance
of interest rates, in terms of the actual proportion of investable resources
which could be affected one way or the other by policy changes.
DISCUSSION OF ECONOMY-WIDE ISSUES
5.        Theoretical Observations.  In a market economy, an observed interest
rate may be considered as the sum of three parts: (i) the economic rate of
interest which reflects factors associated with the inter-temporal allocation
of real resources; (ii) a general appreciation factor which adjusts for actual
or anticipated changes in the value of the investment instrument due to changes
in interest rates or general inflation; and (iii) a risk premium which com-
pensates the lender for the likelihood of default or difficulty of obtaining
repayment of either interest or principal. The allocative functions of the
interest rate are to elicit correspondence between planned saving and invest-
ment in the economy, and to provide a criterion for the minimum acceptable
productivity of investment opportunities. As the price of capital, the inte-
rest rate also helps to determine the functional and personal distribution
of income. Especially apropos to the Indian context is the general proposi-
tion that in an economy with given distortions, either in product or factor
markets, unilateral adjustments toward optimality in a single market (e.g.
the capital market) may well be welfare reducing for the economy as a whole.
6.        The Structure and Possible Functions of Interest Rates in India.
Varying actual rates of interest in India reflect not only the factors iden-
tified above but also other, often mutually inconsistent, objectives of the
Government. For example, though interest on national debt only represents
the nation's future obligation to itself, there are understandable budgetary
reasons why the Government would wish to minimize the cost of Government
borrowing (particularly when the revenue elasticity of the tax system is low).
This objective is reflected in the 4.6% treasury bill rate and the range of
5.0 to 6.0% on long term issues of GOI securities.
7.        Second, the Government may wish to influence interest rates dif-
ferentially to affect the inter-sectoral allocation of resources. This may
reflect an a priori judgement that one sector ought to be more capital inten-
sive than another. In India there is little inter-sectoral distortion, as
94



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 3
the differentials between rates charged by institutions lending primarily to
agriculture and those leading primarily to industry are insignificant. ICICI
and IDBI lend to industry at 11%, IFCI to agro-industry and industry at 12%,
SLDB for agricultural purposes at 11%. 1/ However GOI's recently announced
modernization program for industry will make US$1.6 billion available for
approved schemes at concessional rates of 7.5%.
8.        A third objective of GOI interest rate policy seems to be the trans-
fer of resources to favored target groups. For example, small businesses,
exporters, and small farmers all benefit from apparently subsidized credit
for some, though not all, types of borrowing: the ceiling of SFC loans to
small enterprises is 11% as opposed to the normal ceiling of 14.5%, and ex-
port credit on deferred payments may be obtained at 8%. To the extent this
procedure reflects a desire simply to transfer income, subsidized interest
rates are a dubious instrument. However, such subsidies may also reflect a
perception on the part of Government that social returns to investment exceed
private returns for such groups, so that at the "market" rate of interest in-
sufficient investment occurs. This is a theoretically valid argument but
obviously subject to case by case verification.
9.        Finally, variations in the interest rate structure may reflect
inter-sectoral differences in the rates required to mobilize savings.  How-
ever, rigidities on the savings side do not, in a reasonably integrated eco-
nomy such as India's, imply that sector lending rates should correspond to
sector borrowing rates.  Specifically the issuing of special "rural develop-
ment" debentures at 12% to mobilize "rural" savings does not imply that agri-
cultural lending should earn a margin on that particular rate in isolation
from lending and borrowing rates in other sectors.
10.       Adjustment for Inflation.  The consequences of this interest rate
structure are further complicated by the relation between the pure economic
rate of return and the appreciation factor increases. If the pure or real
economic rate of return is to retain any allocative role then nominal in-
terest rates must increase by the extent of the appreciation factor (which,
unfortunately, is not generally equivalent to short-run changes of any parti-
cular price index). Determining the true "real" rate of interest thus be-
comes a treacherous exercise. It is, nonetheless, important and some indica-
tion being more valuable than none, one may compare the short term bank de-
posit rates adjusted for annual rates of wholesale price inflation to get
some idea of the movement of nominal versus real rates of interest in India
since 1970:
1/   These rates are those quoted in the Reserve Bank of India, Report on
Currency and Finance, 1975-76. They are simplified for comparative pur-
poses in that no distinction is made between local and foreign currency
rates, the latter including an exchange risk element. Industrial loans
financed by World Bank lending to DFC's suah as IDBI are made at some-
what different rates than those pertaining to the sector in general but
still within a comparable range.
95



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 4
INDIA: Nominal versus Real Short term Interest Rates (%)
1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  19I4i75  1975/76
Bank Deposit Rate            5.0       6.0       6.0       7.0       9.0       9.0
Wholesale Price Inflation   5.5        4.0       9.9      22.7      23.1     -3.3
(Monthly Average)
Real Short term Rates       -0.5       2.0      -3.9     -15.7    -14.1       12.3
Clearly, increasing nominal rates combined with a decreasing price level in
1975/76 have produced a pronounced shift in real short term rates. The cur-
rent prospects for reasonable price stability are probably firm enough to
assure that long term real rates (which are nominally higher) have moved in
a similar direction. Thus, the current structure of real interest rates in
India seems to reflect a reasonable notion of the opportunity costs of capital.
11.       The Allocative Domain of Interest Rates in India.  Leaving aside
the multiple objectives of interest rate policies and the present adequacy of
"real" rates, one should consider, in the Indian context, the importance of
interest rates as allocative mechanisms. Of total net savings in financial
assets of Rs 36,473 M in 1972/73, 30% represented savings of the public sector,
5% from the domestic corporate sector, and the remaining 65% frm the house-
hold sector. Between 1960/61 and 1972/73, savings from the domestic corporate
sector grew slowly at an average of 4.7% p.a. followed by public savings at
13.5% p.a. and household net savings at 16.7% p.a. 1/ While the share of pub-
lic savings is significant and does limit the domain over which interest rates
might be expected to affect resource mobilization, the role of the public
sector in investment allocation is even greater. A back-of-the envelope cal-
culation of gross capital formation in industry and trade in 1974/75 indi-
cates that capital formation of commercial undertakings from central govern-
ment sources considerably exceeded the amounts raised through capital issues
or loans from banks or other important lending institutions. 2/ Thus the
actual allocation of investment funds is influenced greatly by direct Govern-
ment allocations in which the market clearing function of interest rates is
obviated by bureaucratic decision-making. The operation of the industrial
licensing system and the effective rationing of credit through administrative
procedures also diminishes the allocative importance of interest rates.
1/   Reserve Bank of India, Report on Currency & Finance, Volume II, 1975-76.
2/   This calculation involved a comparison of direct GOI capital formation
to commercial enterprises (presumably public or joint undertakings) in
1974/75 and an estimate of private capital formation on the basis of
capital issues, loans from banks, public debentures, and loans from other
term lending institutions (ICICI, IDBI, IFCI, etc.). The latter is an
overestimate of the private share since some of the funds from these
institutions are lent to public or joint enterprises.                   96



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 5
CONCLUSION ON ECONOMY-WIDE ISSUES
12.       The structure and level of interest rates in the Indian economy
are neither so greatly out of line with reality nor do they have sufficient
impact on resource allocation as to warrant considerable effort at fine
tuning.
PROJECT-RELATED ISSUES
13.       Moving to the specific issues directly related to the second ARDC
Credit project does not, unfortunately, reduce the complexity or tractability
of the problems. The major issue is the viability and quality of the insti-
tutions affected by the project, namely the ARDC and LDB. Subsidiary to this
issue is the question of the efficient incidence of administrative costs in
agricultural credit operations. When these costs vary systematically between
classes of borrowers (e.g. higher costs of lending for small-versus large-
scale farmers), the issue is further complicated by the cross-subsidization
implicit in a uniform lending rate. A final issue is the dispersion of in-
terest rates among different institutions engaging in long term lending in
agriculture.
DISCUSSION OF PROJECT-RELATED ISSUES
14.       Institutional Viability.  Concern has been expressed that the SLDB
which, along with CB function as the conduit for ARDC funds, generally cannot
adequately improve the quality of their operations without sufficient funds
to maintain permanent qualified professional staff. 1/ The current margin
of SLDB borrowing and subsequent re-lending is thought to be insufficient to
meet such objectives, though otherwise the short-run financial viability of
the SLDB is not in question. However, general questions on the long-run ade-
quacy of the interest rate spread for agricultural lending institutions have
been raised in a report by C.D. Datey. 2/
15.       Over 75% of ARDC disbursements have been made to the SLDB through
ARDC's subscription of "special development debentures" issued by the SLDB.
These debentures are related to scheme lending under specific ARDC sponsored
projects and carry a slightly higher rate of interest than the ordinary de-
bentures issued by the SLDB. Currently, the special development debentures
constitute approximately 50% of funds for the SLDB. It is anticipated that
1/   Currently many SLDB officials are seconded from State Government
positions on short term contracts with virtually no career interest in
SLDB functioning.
2/   Datey, C.D., Cost of Agricultural Credit Operations, mimeo, 1976, the
first draft of a consultant's report prepared for the World Bank.
97



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 6
this percentage will grow in the future. Ordinary SLDB debentures are sub-
scribed by both institutional and non-institutional sources. State govern-
ments, which have legal control over the SLDB, guarantee both types of de-
bentures and also subscribe themselves to the 'special development' deben-
tures. The remaining 20% of ARDC disbursements are made to CB, but consti-
tute a small portion of the funds for agricultural lending raised by these
banks.
16.       In 1975/76 the marginal pre-tax spread for the ARDC was 1.42%
while the average spread was less at 1.31%. 1/ No deterioration in the ARDC
financial position is indicated by these figures. The SLDB appear to be in
a slightly different position. The marginal spread on current lending is
figured at 3% to 3.5% with the current cost of funds at 7.5% and lending
rates at 10.5% for minor irrigation and 11% for all other purposes. How-
ever, the long term structure of the SLDB and the past use of sinking funds
to generate high income on fixed deposits gives an average spread for the
SLDB from 5.5% to 6.0%. 2/ The implications of continued divergence between
average and marginal spreads is an inevitable decline in SLDB profitability.
However, such an outcome would be at the discretion of the State Governments
which could take up SLDB debentures at rates low enough again to reduce the
marginal cost of funds to the SLDB should their financial viability ever be
threatened. 3/
17.       The adequacy of the LDB spread also hinges on the magnitude of
appropriate administrative charges to be borne by the lending institution.
Datey estimates an 8% interest premium on this account but the derivation
of this figure is unclear at best and appears to be quite arbitrary. A 3.5%
premium is derived by making certain assumptions about the desirable ratio
of supervisors to the volume of new and old loans and about the cost of pro-
viding technical services now either paid for by Government or not provided
at all. 4/ Datey then adds this to "the effective margin which the SLDB will
have to maintain." This latter he estimates without elaboration at 4.5%.
As the 3.5% already includes a significant portion of overhead (0.8%) and
all salaries (2.7%) it is unclear what administrative purpose the "effective
margin" of 4.5% serves. Without further investigation it is difficult to
1/   Datey, C.D. ibid., Table 16.  A comprehensive assessment of the ARDC
financial position made by the appraisal mission indicates somewhat
lower spreads--around 1%--which, however, are still acceptable.
2/   Datey, C.D., ibid., p. 52.
3/   This is the approach taken in SFC small-scale industry loans financed
by IDA/Bank in which SFC on-lending rates are lower than to medium-scale
industry while the financial spreads are larger on small-scale lending
due to concessional GOI terms to SFC's for small-scale lending (through
IDBI).
4/   Datey, C.D., op. cit., Annex VIII, p. 5.                             98



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 7
assess exactly what spread a full accounting of administrative expenditures
would entail.
18.       The Determination of Who Should Bear Administrative Costs.  More
fundamentally there may be sound economic reasons for not applying the full
administrative spread. If there is a divergence between social and private
benefits to investment in agriculture, due for example to risk aversion on
the part of farmers, then a divergence in social and private costs may be
justified to generate the socially desirable level of investment. This
divergence in costs might be accomplished through explicit subsidization
but more plausibly by the public provision of services, such as extension
and project supervision, that serve to reduce the risks involved. It is
by no means clear then that efficiency is served by shifting these costs
of agriculture credit onto the borrower.
19.       Cost Differentials for Different Classes of Borrowers.  Cross-
subsidization among lenders occurs whenever a single lending rate is used
to cover the average costs of lending to different classes of borrowers al-
though there are identifiable administrative cost differentials associated
with the different groups. In the case of India, Datey estimates that an
extra 1% interest premium is needed to cover the added cost of lending to
small farmers. This presumably covers both the extra risk premium asso-
ciated with the higher probability of overdues and default by small farmers
and the added costs of processing the increased number of loans which a
higher proportion of small-farmer lending would generate. However, it is
not clear whether the 1% spread represents the average increase needed or
the marginal increase to be charged solely to small farmers.
20.       The same analytical difficulties apply to small farmer cost dif-
ferentials as apply to administrative costs in general. To the extent that
private and social benefits diverge for reasons peculiar to small farm lend-
ing, there is a case for explicit subsidization to equalize lending rates
between smail and large farmers. In its policy statement on agricultural
credit, the Bank advocates a uniform lending rate in order to: avoid the
leakages and opportunities for corruption that might stem from differential
rates. In addition uniform interest rates would help foster optimal resource
allocation. 1/
21.       Divergent Lending Rates by Different Agricultural Lending Insti-
tutions. Another issue arises when different institutions lending in the
agricultural sector charge different interest rates on similar term loans.
This is the case with CB and LDB in India. CB which receive almost 20% of
ARDC disbursements raise the remainder of their funds through deposits on
1/   World Bank, Agricultural Credit, 1975, pp. 49-50.
99



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 8
which it is estimated that average interest costs equal 7.07%. 1/ This is
approximately the same as the cost of funds from ARDC. Banks currently
charge 14%-16% for non-ARDC agricultural loans. Data on average -.terest
income from all agricultural loans outstanding is not readily available, but
the average spread for rural commercial banks is unlikely to be less than
6%-8% with a marginal spread at the upper end of this range. This appears
to exceed the average LDB spread slightly and is considerably greater than
the marginal LDB spread. Again it is difficult to assess the adequacy of
this margin, but one may note that Datey's estimate of the administrative
costs of agricultural lending for CB is 6.0%. 2/  At any rate, comparability
of the spread between LDB and CB bears less on efficiency issues than on the
inequity of divergent lending rates from two institutions in the same sector.
Uniformity of rates for similar term lending is a desirable objective.
RECOMMENDATIONS ON PROJECT-RELATED ISSUES
22.       Sorting out the uncertainties on project-related issues leads to
few unequivocal recommendations. Without normative judgment on the ratio of
social to private benefits from agricultural credit, one cannot determine
which administrative costs should be passed on to different or all classes
of borrowers. Whatever administrative costs are found legitimate should,
however, be made explicit and all institutions in the sector should be ex-
pected to cover these costs in both the short and long-run. This dictum
would seem to require some widening of the current marginal spread for LDB.
On allocative grounds, narrowing of the differential between LDB and CB long
term agricultural lending rates would also be desirable. A slight--say 1%--
rise in the LDB lending rate coupled possibly with a decline in the CB rates
would facilitate both these objectives. Possibilities for narrowing the
existing differential could be usefully discussed during negotiations for
the second ARDC project. It is further recommended that under this project,
GOI and ARDC complete a study of the adequacy of the present spread in bor-
rowing and lending rates in relation to long term objectives for agricultural
lending institutions and that based on this study appropriate adjustments
be undertaken to achieve these objectives.
1/   This figure is for rural branches only.  The average costs for CB opera-
tions as a whole may be as low as 5%. Marginal interest costs are in
the range 9%-12% on fixed term deposits.
2/   Datey, Ibid., p. 54.  This is probably at the upper end of the range on
purely administrative changes, but it does not include any risk margin
or charges. CB may undertake less secure loans than LDB which lend by
law only against first mortgages on land.
100



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State Cooperative Banks
Summary7 of Overdues- / - 1971/72 to 1975/76
State                      1971/72       1972/73       1973/74       1974/75       1975/76-/
Andhra Pradesh                  5.0           6.0           1.5           2.0          N.A.
Assam                          92.0          93.0          97.1          98.9          94.1
Bihar                          N.A.          29.0          29.0          37.0          N.A.
Gujarat                         Nil           Nil           Nil           Nil           4.0
Haryana                         Nil           Nil           Nil           Nil           Nil
Himachal Pradesh               52.0          72.0          67.5          68.0          N.A.
Jammu and Kashmir              10.0          19.0          23.4          23.0          N.A.
Karnataka                       2.0           1.0           0.6           1.3          N.A.
Kerala                          Nil           1.0           0.1           0.05          Nil
Madhya Pradesh                  4.0           5.0           4.5           1.0           5.4
Maharashtra                     1.0           5.0           9.6           3.0           2.0
Orissa                          Nil           7.0           3.3           2.6           0.5
Punjab                          Nil           Nil           0.1          N.A.           Nil
Rajasthan                      32.0          12.0           2.4           1.0           0.3
Tamil Nadu                      Nil           Nil           0.2           0.3           0.6
Uttar Pradesh                   5.0           4.0           4.3           3.1          Nil
West Bengal                    59.0          35.0          20.7           6.1           5.2
Others                         17.4          38.2          45.5          30.0          70.0
1/  Expressed as a percentage of demand (principal and interest falling due during the
year plus overdues from previous years).
2/ Provisional.
101
September 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State Land Development Banks and Primary Societies
1/
Summary of Overdues - 1971/72-1975/76
(v')
r LDB                                                    2/          2
State                   Primary           71/72       72/73       73/74      74/75_      75/76/
Andhra Pradesh              SLDB           7.5         36.7        14.2       12.3         9.2
Primaries        11.2         19.6        23.3       23.3       14.7
Assam                       SLDB          60.0         71.4         62.3       74.4      43.5
Primaries        66.7         76.3        72.0       72.0       40.2
Bihar                       S',DB         39.1         42.2        41.6       41.6       27.4
Gujarat                     SLDB          25.4         57.1        47.5       74.2        56.3
Haryana                     SLDB           Nil          Nil         Nil         Nil        Nil
Primaries         0.4          1.1         0.6         2.4        3.0
Himachal Pradesh            SLDB          68.0         71.1        56.1       58.5       59.3
Jammu & Kashmir             SLDB          27.3         27.6        35.8       36.3       40.9
Karnataka                   SLDB          27.7         25.6        22.7       30.3       30.0
Primaries        43.0         42.0        39.3       42.1       41.9
Kerala                      SLDB          26.6         27.5        39.2        35.7        9.5
Primaries        33.3         34.4        45.8       32.0       20.7
Madhya Pradesh              SLDB          37.2         20.6        39.5        32.3      22.5
Primaries        48.7         38.3        50.1       50.3       35.5
Maharashtra                 SLDB          32.1         83.3         44.5       56.2       59.4
Primaries        39.2          - 3/        - 3/       - 3/       - 3/
Orissa                      SLDB          24.1         42.2        50.8       58.5        N/A
Primaries        54.7         48.9        54.2        62.6      30.8
Punjab                      SLDB           Nil          N/A          7.2        1.9        2.7
Primaries         2.7         10.8        11.5       14.0       15.2
Rajasthan                   SLDB          32.4         47.9        50.6       47.4       20.4
Primaries        47.4         47.9        48.7       40.0       25.8
Tamil Nadu                  SLDB           2.2          5.7          5.1      12.9       17.7
Primaries        18.8         19.1        20.0       40.7       36.4
Uttar Pradesh               SLDB          12.7         25.7        21.0       23.9       17.0
West Bengal                 SLDB          32.8         28.8        24.9       24.9        Nil
Primaries        64.0          N/A        43.8       31.3       13.5
1/ Expressed as a percentage of demand (princiDal and interest falling due during
the vear plus overdues from previous years).
2/ Provisional
3/ Since converted into unitary structure
Source: Statistical statements relating to the Cooperative Movement in India (RBI)
September 22, 1976                                                             102



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Background
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was set up by an Act
of Parliament and began operations on July 1, 1963 after comprehensive studies
revealed that institutional credit, particularly for term financing of invest-
ment in agriculture, was inadequate. Subsequent amendments in the Act made
several significant changes and included changing the name of the Corporation
to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). The Act
provides for the scope of ARDC activities, the principles guiding its activ-
ities, and organizational matters.
Functions
2.        The ARDC has engaged itself in the task of enlarging term credit
available for agricultural investments, improving lending quality at all
levels, rationalizing lending policies and procedures in order to gear up
for production-oriented lending, removing of disparities between different
regions in the country in regard to long-term agricultural investments, and
promoting small farmer interests and other under-privileged sections of the
rural society. The ARDC not only serves as a refinancing agency providing
long-term accommodation to agricultural credit projects, but also stimulates
interest of State government authorities and credit agencies in agricultural
development schemes by helping to formulate and implement schemes.
3.        MIainly, ARDC can refinance:  (a) planned schemes of minor irrigation
works covering compact areas; (b) reclamation and preparation of land for
irrigation under command of surface irrigation projects; (c) forestry develop-
ment; (d) soil conservation and mechanization of farming; (e) production of
plantation crops; (f) construction of warehouses; and (g) diversified agri-
cultural schemes.
4.        Purpose-wise, refinancing for minor irrigation schemes accounts
for the major portion of its business. Up to June 30, 1976, this accounted
for 75.2% followed by farm mechanization (10.8%), land development, reclama-
tion, and soil conservation (5.8%), with the balance divided among plantation
and horticulture, diversified agriculture, storage and market yard schemes.
103



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Share Capital and Resources
5.        Recent amendments in the Act, (proposed under ARDC I), increased
authorized share capital from Rs 250 M to Rs 1,000 M. Share cap!tal can
now be increased by RBI with previous approval of GOI. At the close of the
fiscal year June 30, 1976, share capital issued and outstanding stood at
Rs 250 M.  Current share holdings are:  (a) RBI 14,126 (56.5%); (b) SLDB
and SCB 6,428 (25.7%); scheduled commercial banks 4,131 (16.5%) and others
315 (1.3%).  The initial share capital of Rs 50 M carried a GOI guaranteed
annual dividend of 4.25%.  There is also Rs 100 M share capital with a
dividend rate of 4.5%, Rs 50 M at 6.0% and Rs 50 M at 6.25%.
6.        The ARDC can raise funds from the following sources:  (a) borrow-
ings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI; (b) issue and sale of
debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings frum RBI; and
(d) deposits from GOI, State governments and local authorities.  Maximum
borrowing is limited to 20 times its paid up capital and reserves. The
ARDC Act provides that RBI may deposit with ARDC for 15 years, interest
free, dividends accruing on its shares, which further increases resources
available to ARDC.
7.        As of June 30, 1976, ARDC had total borrowings of about Rs 5,260 M.
Interest rates ranged from 4.25% to 7% per annum and repayments up to 15
years. The ARDC average borrowings and lending rates for the years 1963-64
to 1975-76 are shown in Table 1 and an analysis of the ARDC interest rate
structure is in Table 2.
8.        The ARDC Board of Directors is comprised of nine members:  the
Chairman, who is a Deputy Governor of RBI and nominated by it; one other
nominated by RBI; three nominated by GOI; one elected by SLDB shareholders;
one elected by SCB shareholders; one elected by the Life Insurance Corpora-
tion and scheduled banks that are shareholders; and a managing director
appointed by RBI after consultation with the Board. The present Board
Members are listed in Table 3.
Management
9.        The managing director is Chief Executive Officer and is responsible
for the day to day operations of ARDC. He is assisted by a deputy managing
director, who was recently appointed, and three senior directors. The Board
of Directors has authorized the managing director to approve refinance for
schemes up to a limit of Rs 5 million per scheme. This power is exercised
by the managing director with the help of a management committee consisting
of himself and three senior directors.
Staff
10.       Most of the professional staff members have been seconded from RBI.
Such an arrangement has disadvantages since it provides for no certain con-
tinuity of staff as staff members can be transferred back to RBI at any time.
104



ANNEX 4
Page 3
However, this has not created any significant problems since such transfers
have not been frequent. This close relationship with RBI also has certain
advantages. Recruitment is no problem, staff are transferred from RBI
when required and no staff member is transferred until he has received
banking training through an RBI training school.
11.       The ARDC had a professional staff of about 320 as of June 30, 1976,
of which about 200 were located in the head office in Bombay. The ARDC has
established technical units at the head office, Calcutta, and Lucknow. These
units have specialists in groundwater and hydrology, soil conservation and
water management, animal husbandry, fisheries, and plantation production.
They not only provide technical advice to ARDC but also to lending institu-
tions. They also assist States in identifying viable projects and help lend-
ing institutions and State governments in project formulation and implementa-
tion. The ARDC recognizes the need to upgrade and increase its staff at all
levels. Staff projection estimates through 1980 are shown in Table 4.
Organization
12.       Overall organization of ARDC is shown in Table 5.  Recently, a dep-
uty managing director was appointed but his specific duties have not yet been
identified. The head office is in Bombay and there are 15 regional offices
covering all the States. The new organizational structure consists of eight
Departments:  Projects Division I, Projects Division II, Projects Division III,
Management, Planning and Development, Technical, Evaluation and Programming
and Training.
13.       Projects Divisions are headed by senior directors with States
operations divided among them. Subdivisions within each Project Division
are headed by directors. The number of States each director is responsible
for is kept small to enable concentration upon schemes within the State.
Projects Divisions receive proposed schemes, scrutinize them, arrange for
technical and financial studies wherever necessary, prepare a memorandum to
the Board or a note to the managing director for sanction of the scheme,
issue sanction letters and subsequently arrange for disbursement of funds.
They also scrutinize follow up reports on schemes conducted by regional
offices and communicate findings to State governments and financing institi-
tutions for appropriate remedial action.
14.       There are three sections, Finance, Administration, and Board Matters,
in the Management Division and each section is headed by a director.
15.       Finance section take care of resources budgets, and maintains ARDC
accounts. This section supervises ARDC fund positions and mobilizes resources
for lending programs. In this regard, the section arranges periodic market
borrowings through sale of bonds, and arranges to borrow funds from GOI in-
cluding reimbursement under IDA credits. In addition, the section arranges
for resources from the National Agricultural Credit Fund set up in RBI, as well
as for short-term borrowings from RBI. Excess funds not immediately required
are invested in Government securities. The section is also responsible for
preparation of ARDC financial reports.                                     105



ANNEX 4
Page 4
16.       The Administration section is responsible for all administrative
matters and staffing at both the head office and regional offices.
17.       Board Matters, such as circulating agenda papers for board meetings
and preparation of minutes of meetings are handled by this separate section.
18.       A director is in charge of the Planning and Development Department,
which is directly supervised by the managing director. The department pro-
vides management information on: systems; performance budgeting; monthly
progress reports: annual reports; IDA matters other than accounts, and
replies to Parlinmentary questions. It is also responsible for program
planning, method2 of appraisal, surveys and studies.
19.       The Te-rinical Division has experts in groundwater and hydrology,
soil conservation, and water management, animal husbandry, and fisheries.
This division re;liews technical aspects of schemes and makes recommendations
as deemed advisable.
20.       The Evaluation and Programming section is concerned with the method-
ology for financial appraisal of schemes. Evaluation responsibilities are
directed toward monitoring ongoing projects including IDA schemes. Speci-
fic objectives are to: assess scheme benefits at farm level; assess difficul-
ties faced in obtaining full benefits; identify types of farmers who are bene-
ficiaries of ARDC refinanced schemes, and find out possible defects in scheme
formulation, appraisal and execution. The section has also been guiding re-
gional offices in translating small farmer income limits into acreage limits
for different agro-climatic conditions in each State in accordance with the
Small Farmer definition (Schedule D).
21.       The Training Division mainly organizes and coordinates training
programs with special emphasis on training of LDB staff.
22.       Regional offices assist SLDB, CB and State governments in formulating
agricultural development projects, clarifying ARDC policies and procedures,
undertaking pre-appraisals of projects, and in supervising general execution
of ARDC-financed projects.
Lending Policies
23.       The ARDC provides financing to SLDB, SCB, CB and such other insti-
tutions as may be approved by GOI upon the recommendation of RBI.
24.       Financial assistance by ARDC is available for approved schemes and
covers diverse activities for promoting agricultural development. Schemes,
which should be aimed at increasing agricultural production and should be
drawn up on an area development basis can involve just one farmer, a group
or an association of farmers. Preference is given to schemes involving a
large number of farmers.
106



ANNEX 4
Page 5
25.       Schemes must be technically feasible and financially viable.  They
should include provision for credit, technical services, working capital or
seasonal credit and marketing. The ARDC technical staff reviews and evaluates
each scheme. Consideration is given to financial evaluations including cost
estimates, suitability of cropping patterns, inputs, repayment capacity,
seasonal credit arrangements and marketing.
Lending Terms
26.       The ARDC provides refinancing for both medium-term loans (three to
five years) and long-term loans (up to 15 years) for approved schemes. This
is in line with the identified need for more term credit for investment in
agriculture. Refinance is provided by subscriptions to special debentures
issued by the SLDB or by loans to SCB and CB.
27.       Normally, ARDC subscribes up to 75% of debentures leaving the
remaining 25% to be met by respective State governments. Beginning in 1967/
68, ARDC provided refinancing up to 90% in the case of minor irrigation as
an incentive to various State governments and to relieve their financial
burden. This concession has been extended to the end of the Fifth Year plan
(June 30, 1979).
28.       Other schemes, land leveling, farm mechanization, etc., are re-
financed at the rate of about 75% by ARDC, except for financial institutions
operating in lesser developed eastern and in the north eastern regions. In
these regions, ARDC is providing 90% refinancing uniformly irrespective of
the purpose. This concession has been made to encourage financing institu-
tions in those regions to enlarge their term lending to agriculture.
29.       The ARDC modified its policy from April 1, 1976, in regard to
providing refinancing to financing institutions for schemes under the aegis
of SFDA/MFAL agencies. From that date, refinancing has been provided up to
90% with the remaining 10% by concerned State governments in respect to
schemes of SLDB, and by CB from their own resources. Prior to that date,
ARDC had been refinancing 100% of loans to such small farmers.
30.       Prior to IDA participation in ARDC operations, special debentures
were repayable in one lump sum at the end of the loan period and ARDC re-
quired that collections from farmers in the interim be placed in a sinking
fund. In the case of IDA-supported projects, ARDC is given the benefit of
the re-use of funds realized from farmers' collections. Repayments of such
special debentures under IDA projects are, therefore, scheduled approximately
to match farmers' collections, and sinking fund arrangements do not apply.
31.       Farmers are expected to obtain seasonal credit (less than one year)
from SCB, CB, or other sources. Although the recent amendment to the ARDC
Act enables ARDC to grant credit for working capital or seasonal requirements,
such credit would be confined to integrated schemes. Split lines of credit
are not desirable from either the lenders or borrowers point of view. Long-
term lenders may be placed in precarious positions in times of adversity even
107



ANNEX 4
Page 6
though they may be adequately secured. It is more difficult to work with the
borrower in arranging revised or rescheduled loan repayments when this becomes
necessary if more than one lender is involved. The Committee, which was ap-
pointed in accordance with the terms of ARDC I, to look into the possibility
of a merger of the two cooperative credit structures has strongly recommended
such a merger. The GOI is expected to make a decision on the Committee's
recommendations during the next fewr months.
32.       Currently, ARDC is lending at 7.5% on minor irrigation schemes and
8.0% on other schemes. On-lending institutions charge farmers a minimum of
10.5% and 11.0%, respectively.  All lending institutions operating a parti-
cular scheme must charge the same rate of interest. This spread to participa-
ting banks is barely adequate, particularly if LDBs are to be strengthened
by recruiting staff on direct establishment (Annex 3), and RBI and ARDC should
review their lending terms with a view to increasing the spread. An increase
in lending rates of about 1% to 2% to farmers would bring agricultural finan-
cing through ARDC more in line with comparable loans not refinanced by ARDC.
Lending Commitments
33.       The following table shows the growth of ARDC commitments less
subsequent cancellations from 1963/'64 through 1975/76:
No. of                                               Disbursement
schemes    ARDC Commitment as                        as percentage
sanctioned      phased               Disbursement    of commitment
at the end  During    Upto the  During   Upto the  During  Upto the
Year       of the      the       end of    the       end of    the      end of
(July-June)    year      year      the year   year    the year   year   the year
(Rs M)---------------  ------%-------
1963-64         3          -          -        -          -        -         -
1964-65        13         44.7        44.7       4.5       4.5     10.1    10.1
1965-66        36         82.8        87.3      44.5      49.0     53.7    56.1
1966-67        42         94.0       143.0     20.8       69.8     22.1    48.8
1967-68       128        185.0       254.8     56.7      126.5     30.6    49.6
1968-69       233       459.4        585.9    178.4      304.9     38.8    52.0
1969-70       371        616.6       921.5    286.0      590.9     46.4    64.1
1970-71       458        665.8     ]L,256.7    306.2     897.1     46.0    71.4
1971-72       711        863.3     1,760.4    349.8   1,246.9      40.5    70.8
1972-73       923      1,667.1     2,914.0    941.4   2,188.3      56.5    75.1
1973-74     1,457     1,882.0      4,355.6    978.4   3,166.7      52.0    72.7
1974-75     2,053      1,875.4     6,087.3  1,064.0   4,230.7      56.8    69.5
1975-76     2,905     2,965.2      8,477.8  1,711.5   5,942.0      57.7    70.1
As of September 30, 1976, ARDC had 1,063 schemes under consideration for a
total of Rs 5,357.7 (Table 6).
34.       During the initial years, ARDC transacted very little business due
to the need to establish the groundwork and bases for its operation, and for
108



ANNEX 4
Page 7
building its staff. The above Table shows the significant growth that has
taken place in recent years. Most of the earlier schemes sanctioned were
financed by LDB. However, during the last two years, CBs have become more
significant in the field of agricultural financing and use of ARDC facilities.
ARDC Schemes Sanctioned During 1975/76
ARDC Commitments
Schemes Approved             Total         Average
Number         %                          per scheme
Rs M       %       Rs M
(a) Land Development
Banks             256         28.1        1,766    59.5         6.90
(b) Scheduled Com-
mercial Banks    650          71.5        1,195    40.2         1.83
(c) State Com-
mercial Banks       3           .4            8      0.3        2.66
Total       909       100.0        2,969   100.0         3.26
Purposewise Distribution of ARDC Schemes Sanctioned Up to June 30, 1976
ARDC Commitments
Average
Schemes Approved             Total        per scheme
Purpose               Number         _          Rs M       %        Rs M
(a)  Minor Irrigation    1,537         52.9        8,188    71.4         5.3
(b) Land Development
and Soil Conser-
vation                  106        3.7          792      6.9        7.5
(c)  Farm Mechanization    489         16.8        1,287    11.2         2.6
(d) Plantation, Horti-
culture, Forestry      296        10.2          478      4.2        1.6
(e) Poultry and Sheep
Breeding                 74        2.6           35       .3         .5
(f)  Fisheries               121        4.2           158     1.4        1.3
(g)  Dairy                   195        6.7          246      2.1        1.3
(h) Storage and Market
Yards                    85        2.9          287      2.5        3.4
(i) Agricultural
Aviation                  2        --              2     --         --
Total            2,905       100.0       11,473   100.0        4.0
Disbursements
36.       During the early years, ARDC disbursements lagged behind estimates
but as the Table in para 33 shows, this has improved in recent years, partly
109



ANNEX 4
Page 8
as a result of better administrative arrangements and partly through ARDC's
more frequent recourse to imposing commitment fees. As of June 30, 1976,
disbursements were 70.1% of scheduled commitments (para 33). Purpose-wise
disbursements by ARDC since inception are shown in Table 7.
Source of Funds
37.       (a) Share Capital:  The borrowing power of ARDC is restricted to
20 times paid-up capital and reserve funds. As of June 30, 1976, its issued
and paid-up capital was Rs 250 M and shareholders were as follows:
Institution                        Shares Held June 30, 1976
Rs M           %
Reserve Bank of India                          141.3         56.5
Central Land Development Banks                  43.7         17.5
State Cooperative Banks                         20.6          8.2
Scheduled Commercial Banks                      41.3         16.5
Life Insurance Corporation of India              2.9          1.2
Other Insurance and
Investments Companies                          0.2         0.1
250.0       100.0
The ARDC projects that paid-up share capital will increase
to Rs 350 M by June 30, 1977, and then increase each
of the next four years reaching Rs 650 M by June 30, 1981.
(b)  Borrowings from GOI:  Borrowings from GOI, which are at
present limited to rupee equivalent of disbursements made
under IDA credits, stood at Rs 2,500 M at June 30, 1976.
(c)  Issue and Sale of Debentures and Bonds Guaranteed by GOI:
The ARDC has resorted to sizeable market borrowings in
recent years to mobilize local resources and to help
finance its growing business. The growth of local
resources mobilization is shown in Table 8. During
1975/76, ARDC issued the IX and X series of bonds for an
aggregate sum of Rs 385 M. These issues which mature in
ten years carry an interest rate of 6% per annum. At June
30, 1976, ARDC total market borrowings were Rs 1,377 M.
The following Table shows the amounts outstanding as well as
the subscribers for bond issues:
110



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Bond Series
Subscribers                  I - VIII        IX       X      Total
------------- (Rs M)---------------
State Bank of India
and Subsidiaries                  227.5       15.4    48.6    291.5
Nationalized banks                  444.6       42.5    78.5    565.6
Other Commercial Banks               61.3       10.6    15.4      87.3
Life Insurance Corpora-
tion of India                       9.5        1.0     2.5      13.0
Other Insurance and
Investment Companies                2.1        2.5     5.0       9.6
Cooperative Banks                   239.1       38.0   125.0    402.1
Other                                 8.0         -      -         8.0
Total              992.1      110.0   275.0  1,377.1
(d)  Borrowings from RBI for Periods Not Exceeding 15 Years:
During 1976/77, RBI initially approved a limit of Rs 400 M
under the National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations)
Fund and this limit was fully utilized. In June 1976, when
there was a considerable step-up of ARDC disbursements, RBI
granted a supplemental limit of Rs 200 M which was fully
utilized. Repayments on earlier loans were Rs 98 M.
(e) Borrowings from RBI for Short-term Loans: The ARDC has a
limit of Rs 150 M for short-term loans from RBI and at
June 30, 1976, the outstanding balance was Rs 17 M.
(f)  Repayments by the Member Banks:  During 1975-76, repay-
ments by member banks amounted to Rs 245.9 M. The
following Table shows the breakdown by agencies for
aggregate repayment of Rs 448 M as of June 30, 1976:
Repayments
IDA Assisted
Agency                     ARDC                Schemes        Total
-----------------(Rs M)--------------
Scheduled Commercial Banks        135.2                26.6          161.8
State Land Development Banks       75.6               162.5          238.1
State Cooperative Banks            48.1                 -             48.1
Total                258.9               189.1          448.0
Operating Results
38.       A comparative statement of ARDC operating results for the years
June 30, 1972 through June 30, 1976, is given in Table 9 and is summarized
below:
111



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Operating Results
Profit  Trf. to         Profit
Gross    Total      Before  Special          After                 Net
Year    Income   Expenses   Taxes   Reserve   Tax   Tax   Dividend   Surplus
1971-72   60.6       49.7      10.9      1.1      5.8   4.0      3.0         1.0
1972-73   92.4       75.4      17.0       1.7     8.9   6.4      4.4         2.0
1973-74  155.3      124.4      30.9      3.1    16.0  11.8       6.7         5.1
1974-75  221.4      177.3      44.1      4.5    23.0  16.6       8.9         7.7
1975-76  299.1      240.6      58.5      5.9    30.9  21.7    10.9          10.8
39.       Operations have improved during each of the past five years as
volume of lending has increased. Profit level has increased satisfactorily
and is expected to remain good in the years ahead. The ARDC does not set
aside any reserve for losses on bad debts, and management is of the opinion
that is not necessary in view of the type of lending activities, the type
of security behind the loans, guarantees of State governments, and agree-
ments with RBI and CB which permit ARDC to draw against their deposits with
RBI should a CB not repay ARDC as scheduled. The ARDC has no overdues, never-
theless, it would be prudent to keep the question of creating a reserve for
bad and doubtful debts under constant review.
Financial Position
40.       The ARDC is in a sound financial position.  Its equity position
as of June 30, 1976, was unimpaired and its securities are mainly in deben-
tures of LDB which are guaranteed by State governments. Comparative balance
sheets for the past five years and projected balance sheets for 1976/77
through 1980/81 are shown in Table 10. The June 30, 1976 balance sheet is
summarized below:
Liabilities                             Assets
(Rs M)                                (Rs M)
Paid-up share capital       250.0      Cash on hand                  4.0
Reserve and surplus          44.0       IDA loans                  535.0
Bonds and debentures    1,377.0        IDA debentures           2,483.0
Deposits                     23.0      Other Loans                 701.0
Loans from GOI            2,501.0      Other debentures          1,775.0
Loans from RBI            1,401.0       Interest accrued on
loans and debentures   191.0
Other Liabilities           103.0      Other assets                 10.0
Total           5,699.0                                5,699.0
112



ANNEX 4
Page 11
Audit
41.       In accordance with its Act, ARDC accounts are audited annually by
accountants duly qualified under the All-India Companies Act of 1956. Under
the same Act, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India
to examine and report on the accounts of ARDC. To date, GOI has not found
the need to exercise this power. The present auditors are Batlboi and
Purohit, Chartered Accountants.
March 1977
113



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Cartoration
Average Borrowing and Lending R_ate  from 1963-64 to 1975-76
Unit 1963-64   1964-65   1965-66   1966-67   1967-68  1968-69   1969-70   1970-71                1971-72   1972-73   1973-74  1974-75   1975-76
I.   Borrowings ouitstanding as at June 30   Rs M   Nil              Nil         Nil        Nil          30.0   207.5        506.9      887.3      1,082.3   1,967.6   2,903.2  3,83;.3    5,229.0
(excluding share capital and interest
free borrowing of Rs 50 M)
II.  Interest paid on borrowings during           Rs M   Nil         Nil          Nil       Nil            .47    4.42        17.07      30.60        44.12       89.37     113.4    162.2        220.6
the year
III. Average rate of borrowings                   7.      Nil        Nil          Nil       Nil          1.55      2.13        3.37        3.47        4,07        4.10       3.90       4.22       4.21
(percentage II to I)
IV.  Refinance ouitstanding as at                 Rs M   Nil           4.5        49.0       69.8      126.3    304.0        589.0      889.3    1,234.1   2,359.0   3,097.5  4,061.8   5,493.9
June 30
V.   Interest recovery on refinance               Rs M   Nil          Nil          1.09       3.06       4.83      10.20      24.09       40.12       58.78    117.27       149.9      211.5      287.3
during the year
VI.  Average rate of lending                       %      Nil          0.05        2.22       4.40       3.83       3.36       4.09        4.51         4.76       4.97        4.83      5.20        5.22
(percentage of V to VI)
VII. Margin (VI - III)                             %      Nil          0.05        2.22       4.40       2.28       1.23       0.72        1.04         0.69       0.87        0.93      0.98        1.01
March 21, 1977
V
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61



INDIA
RECORD ACRICULTUTRAL REFINANCE ANR) DEVELOFMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agticult-rl Refinance and Develo-=ent Corporation
Analyss of Interest Rote Strutur
(Ae.o.nt. In R. M)
(Rtee it T, per ye-r)
1963-64      1964-65        1965-66       1966-67        1967-68        1968-69       1969-70        1970-71        1971-72       1972-73        1973-74
A=t.   Rate   Ant,   Rote   A.t  RRt         n      ate A=tt Ant.   Rate   Aert.   Rote   t.   Rate   Ant.   Rete   Ant.   Rntc   Ant.  Rote   At.   Rate          A=t.     Rate       At.   -Rt
1.   Lendlee Rate*                                           -       5.5    4.5    6.00  44.5    6.00  20.8    6.00  56.7    6.00 178.4    6.00 285.9    6.00 306.1    6.50 349.8    6.00  951.3   7.00  978.4   7.00    1,064.0   7.5              1,711.5 7.S
88
Total                    -      -      4.5      -    44.5      -    20.8     -    56.7      -    179.4    -    285.9      -   306.1    -    349.8    -    951.3    _    978.4    -         1,064.0      8      1,711.5  -
II   Boerotina Rota
(G) 0O1 Loans
(1) Noenal                                         50,0                                                      30.0   5.50   117.5   4.75  150.0   4.75  120.0   4.75    0.5   4.75   70.0   5.25    -           -         -        -         -       -
69.0   5.25   40,0   5.25  1OR.O   5.75   70.0   5.25
(1i) IDA                                              _      _       _      _      _       _                                                                              31.1  4.75  335.9   4.75  124.0   4.75           98.7   4.75        204.0 4.75
2.2   5.25   71.3   5.25  199.9   5.25        159.5   5.25        158.9 5.255
9.0   5.50        24.7   .595        29.4 5.50
26.6   5.75       37.0   5.75         50.9 5.75
11.2   6.0         19.4 6.0
87.6 6.50
(b) Op.. H-k.L B-ing.                                                                                                                                                                 2:5 7 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25  .
(4) Opec Markat Rorroowtega-                             _-_            _      _       _      _      _       _      _      _              _    109.4       5.75   85.3   5.75   82.5   5.75  100.5   5.75  275.0   5.75      330.0   6.0         385.0 6.0
(c) BorroYnRfro= RenB9I
(1)  Sho-t-ter--                                                                                                                            -      -      75.2   6.00   33.9   6.00   37.0   6.00  116.0   6.00          45.0   9.0          17.0 9.0
(it) L.ng-trr-50.0 4.25 25.00 4.25 229.5 4.75  190.9 4.75  600.0 6.0
50.R   4.75                     390.90  6.800
(d) Shar- Capital                                       50.0   4.25                           --            --                      -         -        -         -50.0   4.50   50.0   4.50                                   50.0   6.00         50.0 6.25
Total                   100.0                                                      30.0    -    177.5    -    299.4    -    380.5    -    320.2    -    964.7   -  1,007.1    -            1,156.1    -        1.586.7  -
Rate of lending aR at tha end of the ye.
III.  Itere-t-i.oe .ot.taadimg of ARDC NorrewiniR ab   on 30-6-1976
intereat free       4.25.    4.75%    5.257    5.50%    5.75%        6%M     6.507.     7%    Tota1
(a)        -orreotnee 0 roe GOorvraent of India:
(i)  Nornal                                                           50.0               -      376.4    340.0      30.0      -        -         -       -        796.4
(0i)  IDA/IBRD                                                           -                -      923.4    500.8      54.1    114.4    21.7       87.6    2.5     1,704,5
(b) Re.erre Barsk Of  adie L.T.O. FPnd                                       _              205.0    309.0       -        -        -      670.0       -       -       1,384.0
(o)pe   -kt                                                                  -                -         -        -        -       662.1   715.0       -       -       1,377.1
T08al                                       50.0             205.0  1,608.8    840.8      84.1    776.5 1,606.7       87.6    2.5     5,262.0
00.  Ivtere6t-wise  toutetandtno of ARDC9 *endinga ason 030-6-1976
5,             5.50%    5.75%      6%       6.507     7%      7.50%      0%      Total
(o) Refinance Lo.n-                                                         9.7                         -       36.6    526.0    205.0   184.6    273.7    1,235.6
(b) DeobentareR
(i)  Norml                                                                             72.9      -       739.5    744.1    175.9   114.6       28.8    1,875.8
(ii)  IDA                                                                -                -      342.3       2.3  1,428.5    192.8   392.5       25.4    2,383.8
TotAl                                        9.7              72.9    342.3    778.4  2,698.6    573.7   691.7    327.9    5,495.2
Septeaber 30, 1976



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Board of Directors
Nominated/         Date Nominated/          Date Nomination/
Name                            Appointment                          Elected             Elected                  Election Expires
1. Dr. R. K. Hazari             Deputy Govenor -
(Chairman)                  Reserve Bank of India                 Nominated          March 16, 1973                    -
2. Shri K. S. Narang            Secretary to GOI - Ministry
of Agriculture and Irrigation,
Department of Agriculture            Nominated           February 6, 1976                 -
3. Shri I. J. Naidu             Secretary to GOI - Ministry
of Agriculture and Irrigation,
-Department of Rural Development    Nominated            February 6, 1976                  -
4. Shri K. P. A. Menon          Additional Secretary to GOI -
Department of Revenue and Banking  Nominated             December 5, 1975                 -
5. Shri B. S. Vishwanathan    President - Karnataka State
Cooperative Land Development Bank  Elected               September 24, 1976       September 24, 1980
6. Shri Veershetty              Director - Karnataka State
Kushnoor                     Cooperative Apex Bank, Ltd.          Elected             September 24, 1976       September 24, 1980
7. Shri P. C. D. Nambiar        Managing Director - State
Bank of India                        Elected             September 24, 1976       September 24, 1980
8. Dr. A. K. Banerji            Executive Director - Agricultural
Credit Department, Reserve Bank
of India                             Nominated           November 4, 1976
9. Shri M. A. Chidambaram.    Managing Director - Agricultural
Refinance and Development
Corporation                          Appointed           January 12, 1973                 -       z
1/   (i)  A nominated Director shall hold office during the pleasure of the authority nominating him.                              X
(ii)  An elected Director shall hold office for four years.                                                                   w X
November 30, 1976



/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f1 
I  - F                                                                -   t~=  
441                                                       04 '°
o   04
444 O                       04       04      4        04      4_       4 
4.)X                         _ N  4       -                    a4  0           -                0 4
'0° 44                 00                     *             4               04      - a              0a
E  O           X~~ S    0 4                  4               '0       04 0=           =4 =
O4                                                                  4       04       04 =04¢  l
444=41CD _
2    o    _           bl                                       _        _       N        _4 '$
2n: ~   ~      ~      4  4               04       4       04      '4       '0 ,4 ,4 ,0_       .
_ ~    ~     ~      0                 '               "4 _' _                   04      04 E     S
444 D4                           4       04      04 ,'0 0 4 0 4 4 04e
44            44        0               'e              04 4       
440         0        ON    44        44      O           N    44       4404_   
=l   -     44      4           '4      -     0          -     44         -
b    40     00v|4            40        04     40       44      40
n     0 0        0      4     4     4 44            0    '           444
4'    '0        '00 _       - ,44 ',4  4 <04    <4    -0    44 g02                            117



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Organization Chart
HEAD OFFICE
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA RMAN II    
DIRECTOR                   DIECTOR                      IECO
[   PROJECTS    l      l   PROJECTS    l           |    PROJECTS                  MANAGEMENT                  PLANNING AND                                           EVALUATION
PROJECTS  PFiOJFCT          PROJECTS                    AN..IEMENT               ~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMNTPRGAMN
DIVISION I                 DIVISION 11                 DIVISION III                  DIVISION                   DIVISION                    DIVISIN                                                   C
RAJASTHAN                                                                         PLANNING   &
DIRECTOR    UTTAR                             DIRECTOR---MA--ARA--TRA                 FUNDS &                   DEVELOPMENT                   MINOR
PRADESH             ~~~~~MADHYA                ODA                          ACCOUNTS                  &  AAEET                      IRRIGATION       DIETR      EAUION           DIETR       TRAINING
DIRECTOR    PRADESH                                                                                    I
ORISSA             PRADESE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLCOSR
DIRECTOR     --U-ARA-                                   DIRECTOR  TAMIL NADU        DIRECTOR COMMITTEE &                   IAMTES           DIRECTOR VATERN MAAG        DIRECTOR   RGAMN
RIRAR                                                PONDA MERRY                  AEMT
PUNJAR                     KANTK
'A~~~~ AMI
IKASHMIR  .I 
SREGIONAL OFFICES 
N. E| STATES4 CENTRES
|COINSULTANCY UNITS 
LUCKNOW CALCUTTA
SIKEIM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  --66



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPCRATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Schemes Under Consideration as at September 30. 1976
(Rs M)
Minor             Land Development       Farm                Plantations
Irrigation        Soil Conservation    Mechanization         Horticulture               Storage      Miscellaneous              Total
No. of            Mo. of                 No. of              No. of               No. of              No. of              No. of
State                      Schemes Amount   Schemes  Amount         Schemes  Amount    Schemes  Amount    Schemes  Amount   Schemes  Amount    Schemes  Amount             Average Value
1. Andhra Pradesh             18      21.6      3        90.5          7        20.4        6        12.1       -         -         55      135.4        89     280.0             3.1
2. Assam                       9      21.7       -         -           -          -         4        23.3        4       5.1         3        0.9        20       51.0            2.6
3. Bihar                      19    100.8        -         -           4        22.0        2         5.5        5      18.3         3      259.3        33      405.9           12.3
4. Delhi                       1       0.5       -                     -          -         -          -         -        -          -         -          1        0.5            0.5
5. Goa                         -        -        -         -           -          -         2         1.6        -        -          4       20.8         6       22.4            3.7
6. Gujarat                    46    408.6        3       51.4          3        34.3        -          -         4       2.0         8       10.0        64      506.3            7.9
7. Haryana                    10      23.6      4        63.2          4        13.8        -          -         -         -         6        5.2        24      105.8            4.4
8. Himachal Pradesh            5       8.6       -          -           -         -         1         8.1        -                    1       0.4         7       17.1            2.4
9. Jamsu and Kashmir           -        -        1        3.3          -          -         -          -         -         -          2       1.0         3        4.3            1.4
10. Karnataka                  23      48.2       5       12.2         22        23.9       27       143.9        6        6.9        18      17.4       101      252.5            2.5
11. Kerala                      7      25.2       2        7.3         10        24.8       23        63.8        -         -        12       12.9        54      134.0            2.5
12. Madhya Pradesh             53    285.1        2       12.1          8        43.4        3         4.1        4        6.5        18      15.7        88      366.9            4.2
13. Maharashtra                76    142.5        2        4.3         12       243.9        8         9.4        2        6.9        35     525.2       135      932.2            6.9
14. Manipur                     1       0.3       -         -           -          -         -          -         -         -          -        -           1       0.3             0.3
15. Meghalaya                   -        -        -         -           -          -         2         0.7        -         -          1       0.1         3        0.8             0.3
16. Nagaland                    -        -        -          -           1        7.9        -          -         -         -          -         -          1       7.9             7.9
17. Orissa                     55    612.0        3       16.9           3        9.1        4         7.1        2        2.9         6      10.5         73     658.5             9.0
18. Punjab                     11      65.5      12      250.2           3       16.5        -          -         -         -          9      17.1         35     349.3            10.0
19. Rajasthan                  34    198.1       11       84.0           2       32.2        1         9.5        6       16.8         4        7.4        58     348.0             6.0
20. Tamil Nadu                  9      70.4       3         6.9          5        511       22        81.6        2        1.8        12       10.0        53      175.8            3.3
21. Uttar Pradesh              11      31.5      66       134.8         25       55.6         2        6.1        8       17.5        35      215.6       147      461.1            3.1
22. West Bengal                46    246.2        -          -           1         0.1      11        10.1        1        1.6         8       19.1        67      277.1            4.1
H           Total                434  2,310.4    117        737.1         110      553.0      118       386.9       44       86.3       240   1,284.0    1.063   5,357.7               5.0
December 16, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 7
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Purposewise Disbursements Since Inception
(Rs M)
Up to                        During                          Up to
6/30  1969-   1970-  1971-  1972-  1973-  1974-  1975-  6/30
Purpose                1969  1970    1971   1972   1973   1974   1979   1976   1976
Minor Irrigation              128.1 223.3   230.6  267.4  841.8  853.0  837.8 1,081.8 4,460.2
Land Development/Reclamation/
Soil Conservation             138.8  33.2    43.7   23.7   23.0   17.8   20.1    49.2   349.5
Farm Mechanization              1.4   1.6      1.1    3.6   21.8   37.5  122.3   457.5   650.4
Plantation/Horticulture        20.7  15.0    19.9   20.5   14.9   21.9   20.0    30.7   163.6
Poultry/Sheep Breeding           .1    .6      -       -       1.5      .9    6.5      6.8    16.4
Fisheries                       5.6   3.6      3.7    5.9    1.2    8.6   17.8    24.3    70.7
Dairy Development               -      -       -       3.9    2.6    8.2   15.8    28.8    59.3
Storage & Market Yards         10.0   8.7      7.2   24.8   34.6   29.3   23.7    31.9   170.2
Agricultural Aviation           -      -       -       -       -      1.2    -          .5     1.7
Total                  304.7 286.0   306.2  349.8  941.4  978.4 1,064.0 1,711.5 5,942.0
120



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Local Resources Mobilization
(Rs M)
- Actual -----------                 --------- Projected --------
1973-74    1974-75    1975-76         1976-77   1977-78    1978-79
Source
RBI/Bonds                                586         734         990            985      1,313       1,409
Repayments                                 42         93         246            310        470         600
Share capital, etc.                         9         62          67            128         86          97
Total Local Resources                     637        889       1,303          1,423      1,869       2,106
Add IDA Funds                             386        331         534            935      1,067       1,187
Total Resources                        1,023       1,220       1,837          2,358      2,936       3,293
Local Resources as a
% of Total Resources                     62          73         71               60        64          64
March 22, 1977
00 3lF



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Condensed Statement of Income and Expenditure 1971/72-1980/81
(RB M)
--------------------- Actual ----------------------                -----                  Estimated ------------------
1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76                1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80   1980/81
INCOME
Interest Earned on:
(i)  IDA Loans/Debentures                    1.0        12.0        50.9      79.4       133.2                234.0       360.5       506.1       669.8     852.3
(ii)  Other Loans/Debentures                 57.8        76.6        99.0     132.1       154.0                191.3       219.0       249.2       283.8     322.0
Other Income                                   1.8         3.8         5.4        9,9        11.9                15.0        18.7        23.4        29.3       36.6
Total Income               -70*7                   155.3     221.4   2 99T            449.2                           778,7       982.9   1,210.9
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on:
(i)  GOI/IDA Loans                          31.2        43.7        66.3      85.1       107.6                162.6       232.8       309.7       395.2      488.7
(ii)  RBI Loans                               0.5         6.1        15.7       30.1        64.4                75.0       105.5       137,.       168.7      203.4
(iii)  bonds and Decentures                   12.4        17.7        31.4       47.0        12.6                84.o       107.2       139.7       172.6      202.5
Salaries and Staff Benefits                    3.9         4.9         7.1       10.1        12.                  17.0       22.2        28.9        37.5       48.7
General Expenses                               1.7         3.0         3.9        5.0         7'5                  8.4       10.9        14.1        18.4       24.0
Total Expenses              49.7       75.4   1      2        177.3                        7776- 347.     77           2792.                 967.3
Profit Before Tax                             10.9        17.0        30.9       44.1        58.5                93.3       119.6       148.9       190.5      243.6
Transfer to Special Reserve                    1.1         1.7         3.1        4.5         5.9                  9.3        12.0        15.0        19.0      24.5
Tax                                            5.8         8.9        16.0       23.0        30.9                 48.5        62.1        77.4        99.0     126.5
Profit After Tax                               4.0         6.4        11.8       16.6        21.7                 35.5        45.5        56.5       72.5       92.6
Dividend                                       3.0         4.4         6.7        8.9        10.9                 15.9        20.6        23.6       28.4       34.6
Net Surplus                                    1.0         2.0         5.1        7.7        10.8                 19.6        24.9        32.9        44.1      58.0
September 3, 1976



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Condensed Balance Sheets 1971/72-1980/81
(Rs M)
----------------------- Actual ------------------               -------------------- Projected -------------------
1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76             1976/77    1977/78    1978/79   1979/80    1980/81
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and at Banks                          -          1            1          2            4                2           1          12        23          20
IDA Loans                                          -         -            43        139          535           1,107        1,720       2,368    3,064        3,858
IDA Debentures                                     54       660        1,250     1,676         2,483           3,492        4,661       5,900    7,237        8,772
Other Loans                                       138       205          339        492          701              712         853       1,001    1,161        1,342
Other Debentures                                1,043     1,296        1,465      1,756        1,775           2,081        2,288       2,502    2,730        2,990
Interest Accrued on Loans                           3         3            8         15           33
Interest Accrued on Debentures                     31        50           83        114          158             227          298         433       542         685
Other Assets                                        3        11            2         12           10                2            3          3         3            3
Total Assets                1,272      2,26I 9-9                                                                    12,219   14,760670
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Bonds and Debentures                              277       387          662        992        1,377            1,727       2,207       2,807    3,307         3,807
Deposits                                           10         12          14         18           23               28           36          46                   _
Loans from GOI:
(i)  IDA Loans                                  45        452          839     1,170         1,705           2,785        3,972       5,322    6,842        8,452
(ii)  Other Loans                               727        796          796        796          796              796         679         529       309          239
Loans from RBI:
(i)  Long-term                                  50        345          54o       882         1,384           1,662        2,162       2,632    3,132        3,732
(ii)  Short-term                                  34        37          116         45           17             -            -           -         -            _
Other Liabilities                                  25         39          59         76          103              196          252        269       393          480
Total Liabilities               1      2,0          3,026      3,979                        7,194                   11,605                 16,710
Capital
Paid-up Shares                                    100        150         150        200          250              350          400         45o      550          650
Reserves and Undistributed Income                   4          8          15         27           44               79          116         164      227          310
Total Capital                  104        Jb8         165        227          294              429          516        614       777          960
Total Liabilities and        1,272     2,226        3,191 4,206             5,699            7,623        9,824     12,219                 17,670
Capital                   -                                     -    -
DB T/EQUITY RATIO                                     11:1     16:1         18:1       17:1        18:1             16:1         18:1       18:1       17:1         17:1
(Statutory Ratio 20:1)
September 3, 1976 A                                                                                                                                                                   4-
September 3, 1976 



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Cash Flaws 1972/73-1980/81
(Rs M)
------------------ACTUAL-------------------            -----------------------ESTIMATED-----------------------
1972-73      1973-74      1974-75      1975-76         1976-77      1977-78      1978-79      1979-80      1980-81
Resources:
GOI/IDA                           477.2         386.5        331.2        534.7           935.0      1,067.0      1,187.0      1,520.0      1,641.0
RBI/Bonds                         414.8         586.4        733.8        990.1           985.0      1,313.0      1,409.0      1,331.0      1,505.0
Total Borrowings                   892.0        972.9      1,065.0     1,524.8          1,920.0      2,380.0      2,596.0      2,851.0      3,146.0
Repayments from Borrowers           14.2         42.3         92.7        245.9           310.0        470.0        600.0        780.0         830.0
Share Capital                       50.0         --           50.0         50.0           100.0         50.0         50.0        100.0         100.0
Sub-Total                         956.2      1.015.2      1,207.7      1,820.7          2,330,O      2,900.0      3,246.0      3,731.0      4,076.0
Accretion to Reserves                3.7          8.3         12.2         16.7            28.0         36.0         47.0          63.0         82.0
Total Cash Inflow                  959.9     1,023.5       1,219.9      1,837.4         2,358.0      2,936.0      3,293.0      3,794.0      4,158.0
Disbursements:
IDA Schemes                       636.2         563.5        618.7      1,324.0         1,700.0      1,940.0      2,160.0      2,560.0       2,880.0
Non-IDA Schemes                    305.2        414.9        445.3        387.5           500.0        660.0        690.0         640.0        720.0
Total Schemes                      941.4        978.4      1,064.0      1,711.5         2,200.0      2,600.0      2,850.0       3,200.0      3,600.0
Repayments to:
GOI                                  --           --           --           --              --          117.0        150.0        220.0        101.0
Bonds                                --           --           --           --               --           --           --           --           --
RBI                                 18.5         45.1        155.9        125.9           158.0        219.0         293.0        374.0        457.0       m
4>
Total Cash Outflow                 959.9     1,023.5       1,219.9      1,837.4         2,358.0      2,936.0      3,293.0       3,794.0      4,158.0
December 17, 1976



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Growth Since Inception
(Rs M)
Position as at end of June        1964   1965   1966   1967    1968    1969    1970    1971           1972        1973      1974       1975       1976
Share Capital and Reserves        50.0  50.0   50.0  50.0    50.0    50.0    50.9   52.3             1o4.4       108.2     165.0      227.2      294.0
Special Deposit                      -    01.1   02.4   o3.6    o4.9   o6.1    07.4    08.7           09.9        11.7      14.1       17.9        23.0
Subvention Loans                   00.3   00.5  01.1  01.2   o0.4   o1.4   ol.4  o0.4                 oi.4        01.4         -
Borrowings
(1) From GOI-IDA                  50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0    80.0   257.5  447.5   667.5           771.3     1,248.5   1,635.0   1,966.2    2,500.9
(2) Frcm IRI                        -       -      -      -       -        -       -     75.2        83.9        382.0     656.o      927.0    1,401.0
(i)  Short term                -      -       -      -       -        -       -     75.2        33.9         37.0     116.0       45.0       17.0
(ii)  Long term                 -       -      -      -       -        -       -       -         50.0        345.0    54o.0       882.0    1,384.0
(3) Bonds and Debentures            -       -      -      -       -        -    109.4   194.6       277.1        387.1     662.1      992.1    1,377.1
Refinance granted (net)              -    o4.5   49.0   69.7   126.3   304.0  588.9   889.3        1,234.1     2,161.4   3,097.4   4,068.6    5,493.9
(i)  Debentures                -    o4.s   47.5   66.7  119.0    278.5  546.o  812.4         1,096.4      1,956.0   2,715.1   3,438.2    4,258.2
(ii)  Loans                     -       -    01.5   03.0    07.3      25,5   42.9    76.9        137.7       205.4     382.3      630.4    1,235.7
Other Assets                       20.5   00.5   01.2   02.2    05.1      12.2   15.9    25.8         36.0         63.2      92.9      141.7      201.7
Investment and Cash Reserves       82.0   99.2   55.2   35.8    o8.s      05.2   25.0   100.3         00.2        oo.4       oo.8        2.6        3.7
Gross Income                       03.7   o4.o   o4.3  05.0    o6.o       11.0   27.3    42.7         60.6         92.4     155.3      221.4      299.1
Profits before Tax                 03.5   o3.6   o3.9  04.4    04.3       o4.8   o6.7    o6.9         10.9         17.0      30.9       44.1       58.5
Tax Payable                        01.8   01.8   02.3   02.4    o2.4      02.6   03.7    03.4         o5.8         08.9      16.0       23.0       30.9
Profits After Tax                  01.7   01.8   01.6   02.0    01.9      02.2   03.0    03.5         05.1         08.1      14.9       21.1       27.6
Dividend Paid                      02.1   02.1   02,1  02.02.2.1          02.1   02.1    02.1         03.1         04.4      06.6       08.9       10.9
Source: ARDC Annual Report and Accounts.
September 30, 1976
vH



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Diversified Lending in Agriculture
Background
1.        Agricultural production in India has increased during the last two
decades at a rate of 2.8% per annum with foodgrain and non-foodgrain produc-
tion expanding at about the same rate. Compared with previous decades,
increases in productivity came largely from bigger yields rather than from
increases in cultivated area (Table 1).
2.        Increased productivity has largely resulted from expansion of irri-
gated area and greater use of high yielding varieties (HYV), of fertilizer and
pesticides, (Table 2). In the period 1971/72 to 1975/76, gross irrigated area
increased by 18% to 45.4 M ha, the area planted to HYV from 18.2 to 31.0 M
ha (+70%), fertilizer consumption from 2.6 to 2.9 M tons of all nutrients
(+12%), and the area treated with pesticides from 58.0 to 70.0 M ha (+21%);
more data is in Tables 2 and 3.
3.        Expansion of the irrigated area has been the main factor accelerat-
ing production growth. Apart from enabling multiple cropping, it also reduces
risk of crop failure due to drought and, therefore, encourages use of more
inputs. Growth of gross irrigated area in recent years has been mainly due
to accelerated groundwater development.
The Fifth Plan (1974/1979) and Diversified Lending
4.        The Fifth Plan calls for rapid growth in cropped area in order to
increase production (anticipating an expansion of over 2 M ha per year
accompanied by an increase in the irrigated area of more than 11 M ha over
the Plan period). This total cropped area should increase from 169 M to
180 M ha over the five year period. A major feature of the production program
is the expanded involvement in agriculture of small, marginal, dry land far-
mers and farm laborers through Small Farmers Development Agencies and Drought
Prone Area schemes. In humid areas of the northeast and Kerala and in similar
climatic areas of the coastal belt and highlands, development of plantation
and horticultural crops are to be given priority. These crops would serve
the dual purpose of providing cash income and promoting soil conservation.
Increased agricultural production is to be supported by strengthening admin-
istrative and extension services and by increasing and up-grading staff and
facilities at State, District, block and village levels.
126



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The Fifth Plan also envisages a program of selective mechanization
to complement other inputs for increasing cropping intensity and productivity.
The present total level of energy available for agriculture production is
only about 0.3 hp per ha, of which 0.03 hp is mechanical power. Experience has
shown that in some areas, cropping intensity and employment have increased as
a result of increased mechanization.
6.        The Fifth Plan also lays emphasis on development of plantation and
fruit crops; particularly in high rainfall areas where irrigation is not
required. A large portion of plantation crop development (coffee, tea, coco-
nut, pepper and cardamon) would come from a rejuvenation program in areas
where adequate water is already available either through rainfall and/or
irrigation. Many of these crops, e.g. coffee, tea, rubber, cocoa, cardamon
and pepper are important sources of foreign exchange, and some are supported
by a strong institutional network in both the public and private sectors.
ARDC and Diversified Lending
7.        During the last two to three years, there has been a substantial
increase in the number of schemes sanctioned by ARDC for diversified lending.
By the end of March 1976, ARDC had sanctioned schemes involving an aggregate
commitment of Rs 206 M; more than necessary to fully utilize the IDA alloca-
tion for that purpose under the first general line of credit. The ARDC re-
finance of diversified lending, including non-IDA schemes, is expected to
increase from about Rs 580 M in 1975/76 to some Rs 860 M by 1980/81.
8.        The need for LDB to finance diversified investments in agriculture
is essential as in the course of time the scope for lending for minor irri-
gation develoments will decline in most States, thereby affecting the LDB
volume of business. It has, therefore, been a deliberate objective of ARDC
and RBI to impress upon LDB the need to diversify lending operations and the
response from some has been favorable. The bulk of schemes for diversified
lending have, however, come from commercial banks.
9.        The ARDC has a Technical Division with its head office in Bombay
and branches at Calcutta and Lucknow, and a national panel of technical
experts employed as consultants for specific technical appraisals. The LDB
and CB have been encouraged to establish their own technical units and such
units are presently located in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu
and Uttar Pradesh. Most of the expertise for these units is in minor irri-
gation and land development. In addition, many technical publications are
available from the Department of Agriculture, universities, colleges and
private institutions and organizations, as guidelines for project formulation.
10.       The ARDC and LDB rely heavily on technical staff of State govern-
ments i.e., agriculture departments, statutory boards, State corporations,
State educational and research institutions, as well as private institutions,
for the identification and formulation of projects, and to give technical
guidance to farmers at all stages of planning and development. In addition,
127



ANNEX 5
Page 3
technical experts of these institutions assist and support project appraisals
whenever necessary. In the case of crops such as tea, rubber, coffee, seri-
culture, etc., statutory boards have specialized experts who give advice and
assistance before and after development. Due to the wide range u- diversified
lending, the relatively small amounts to be disbursed in most States, and the
scattered nature of most schemes, ARDC and LDB will continue to call upon
outside assistance for development of guidelines for economic and technical
appraisal of many projects.
Diversified Lending for Tree Crops
11.       The national program for tree crop development is largely based
on rejuvenation of existing plantations and orchards, mainly coconut, mango,
citrus and coffee.
12.       Coconut:  The present area planted to coconut is about 1.1 M ha
with a production of 6,200 M nuts. Rehabilitation of coconut production is
of prime importance if only to overcome the large and expanding gap between
internal demand and present production. Production has suffered a severe
setback due to widespread disease in Kerala and Goa, and a major effort is
being made to control as well as eradicate disease and rehabilitate existing
plantations. There is potential for increasing and expanding production in
Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Yield increases of 10 to
20% and more are readily achievable through the use of improved cultural
practices; too many farmers look upon coconut as a secondary crop; it is
planted on borders, along irrigation canals, etc., and given only casual
care and attention. Farmers are, however, beginning to realize that coconuts
can be successfully intercropped to provide a regular source of cash income.
Inter-cropping is particularly attractive to farmers with relatively large
holdings, enabling them to set aside part of their land for establishment of
coconuts.
13.       Although coconut is a good cash crop for the smallholder, his in-
come suffers during the long gestation period. Consequently, GOI has recog-
nized that promotion and establishment of plantation amd orchard crops on
small holdings will often require a subsidy program such as has been proposed
in Maharashtra under the SFDA scheme for the development of cashews, mangos,
and coconuts.
14.       Coconuts are normally planted on the lower flat land and require
water for supplementary irrigation during the first two to three years; on
a small scale, hand-watering is a common practice. Because of the traditional
secondary nature of coconut cultivation, national average yields have been
very low -- less than 25 nuts per tree. With a minimum of improved cultural
practices, national average yields of 40 nuts per tree could easily be
achieved. Cultivators in Karnataka growing coconuts as a primary crop
obtain yields of 60 to 100 nuts per tree.
128



ANNEX 5
Page 4
15.       Mango:  Mango, like coconuts, are often grown as a secondary cash
crop. Demand is good for both fresh and processed fruit throughout the
country. Even in the absence of an organized marketing system, farmers have
little difficulty in selling their crop. Prices have been steadily rising
and, although ARDC and LDB have been using a price of Rs 15 to Rs 20 per 100
fruit for economic calculations, current prices of Rs 25 to Rs 30 per 100,
have been reported. Yields of 400 to 500 fruit per tree are possible with a
stand of 100 to 150 trees per ha.
16.       Mango is more attractive as a tree crop than coconut because more
farmers are familiar with its care and maintenance, having planted trees in
the past for family use. Interest and know-how exists on a wider scale;
mango require only six years before coming into production.
17.       The market for mango appears to be almost unlimited and the farm-
gate price continues to increase.
18.       Citrus:  The citrus industry has been declining.  Deteriorating
production and increasing demand have resulted in a sharp increase in prices.
Disease resistant varieties are now available which make citrus production
much more attractive, while marketing is better organized and packing houses
and processing plants are being established.
19.       Coffee:  India produces over 90,000 tons of coffee annually of
which about 60% is exported. There is a national effort to upgrade existing
plantations and establish new ones, with emphasis on small growers (less than
4 ha). Karnataka leads in coffee production having more than 60% of the
total of 0.4 M ha coffee under cultivation in India. Of the 85,000 ha of
coffee in that State, about half is in holdings of less than 10 ha.
20.       Indian coffee production has considerably increased during the past
decade. Some of this is due to favorable weather conditions, as in 1970/71.
However, steady increase in both production and yields are envisaged as re-
planted areas come into production and farmers adopt new and improved cultural
practices -- in particular, use of irrigation and fertilizer. The national
average yield of arabica and robusta coffee is about 500 kg per ha; yields of
700 to 800 kg are common on better managed plantations. A dramatic price
increase has occured recently, both on internal and export markets. Demand
is expected to be strong and prices to continue to remain high.
21.       Other tree crops:  Demand for refinance for development of cocoa,
rubber, tea, oil plam and cardamon has been limited, and this pattern is
likely to continue. Production of these crops involves long term lending
of 10 to 15 years with disbursement throughout the period to maturity.
Generally, these crops require exacting growing conditions and thus are
limited to selected areas. Cocoa, for example, requires a high rainfall dis-
tributed evenly throughout the year, a uniform high temperature and deep soils,
which retain moisture. All of these tree crops; cocoa, rubber, tea, oil palm
and cardamon require a high uniform rainfall but availability of moisture can
be controlled by irrigation. Because of supplementary water requirements to
129



ANNEX 5
Page 5
produce these crops in many areas, it is recommended that cocoa be grown in
suitable forest lands and intercropped with pepper and/or nutmeg.
22.       Tea and rubber are regulated by statutory boards which also provide
and arrange for finance. When refinance for these crops is requested from
ARDC it always obtains a technical opinion as to suitability of soils, rain-
fall, temperatures, etc., in the project area.
Lending for Dairy and Poultry
23.       There is a general lack of enthusiasm by lending institutions for
small (backyard) dairy and poultry loans except as part of organized schemes
where management and supervision are available. The CB experience so far has
not been good, thus farmers and bankers approach any such programs with
extreme caution.
24.       Small scale unorganized dairying and poultry generally suffer from
lack of management skills necessary to maintain healthy highly productive
dairy cows or poultry. Native dairy stock only produce 500 to 600 liters
of milk per lactation and crossbreeds 1,500 and 2,000 liters per lactation.
At these levels of production dairy is considered a poor investment.
25.       Experience with small scale poultry, less than 2,000 birds, has
usually been unsatisfactory with annual production ranging from 150 to 200
eggs per bird; mortality rates are high and profits marginal at best. Laying
flocks of 5,000 and more birds are becoming popular and the success rate
is much higher as owners usually hire an experiencd farm manager; production
of 220 eggs and more per bird are common.
26.       There will be some scope for financing organized dairy and poultry
schemes, but it will be slow to develop. Poultry has better prospects because
of the trend in scale and the investment required in equipment, land and build-
ings. Small scale dairy, as often undertaken, requires minimal investment.
Some farmers purchase crossbreed stock, but many small farmers simply use
artificial insemination to upgrade existing stock. Thus credit is not gen-
erally a constraint on small scale dairy development.
Lending for Fisheries
27.       Schemes for development of fisheries are normally of the integrated
type involving catching or production of fish; processing and marketing, for
both inland and offshore operations.
28.       Inland fisheries schemes include development of ponds, repairing
of tanks and ponds, reclamation of shallow waters for fish culture, equip-
ment and facilities for raising fingerlings and rearing and harvesting fish.
Processing and marketing facilities may be provided where required. The
130



ANNEX 5
Page 6
project area must be carefuly selected to provide suitable water for fish cul-
ture, together with adequate storage, transport and marketing facilities to
make the operation profitable.
29.       Offshore fishery schemes include fishing boats and their equipment,
including motors, and nets. They may provide for storage, processing and
marketing facilities as part of the project, if adequate facilities are not
available.
Lending for Storage and Marketing
30.       Schemes for development of storage and marketing usually include
construction of warehouses as determined by the Central Warehousing Corpora-
tion. These warehouses are used for storage of farm produce and farm inputs -
seeds, fertilizer, herbicides, pesticides and equipment. Warehouse units
may be organized to act as marketing agents to purchase or store and market
farmers' produce and inputs, and may include provision of transportation
for the collection and distribution of produce and inputs as well as packaging,
grading and marketing equipment. Their main function, however, is to provide
safe and controlled storage facilities for farmers to enable them to take
advantage of seasonal fluctutations in prices and to reduce losses during the
holding period.
March 1977
131



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Index Numbers of Area, Productivity and Production: 1949-O') to 1975-76
Index of Per
Area                Productivity            Production       Capita
Index* % Increase      Index*% Increase       Index* % Inerease Ptoduction
1949-50             82.1                    89.8                   72.8                100.0
1950-51             82.0    - 0.1           83.2    - 7.3          68.9  -  5.4         93.1
1951-52             83.5       1.8          83.7       0.6         70.3      2.0        93.5
1952-53             86.5       3.6          87.5       4.5         74.1      5.4        96.9
1953-54             91.3       5.5          96.8      10.6         83.9    13.2        107.7
1954-55             92.2       1.0          95.6    - 1.2          84.3      1.1       106.9
1955-56             94.4       2.4          91.9    - 3.9          84.4   - 0.5        104.3
1956-57             95.2       0.8          95.1       3.5         89.5      6.0       108.3
1957-58             94.2    - 1.1           89.4    - 6.0          83.7   - 6.5         92.2
1958-59             98.0       4.0         100.5      12.4         96.6    15.4        112.1
1959-60             99.4       1.4          95.7    - 4.8          94.3   - 2.4        107.0
1960-61             99.2    - 0.2          103.3       7.9        102.7      8.9       114.0
1961-62            101.4       2.2         101.0    - 2.2         103.0      0.3       111.9
1962-63            102.3       0.9          98.5    - 2.5         101.4   - 1.6        107.8
1963-64            102.1    - 0.2          100.8       2.3        103.9      2.5       108.1
1964-65            103.3       1.2         108.1       7.2        115.0    10.7        117.0
1965-66            100.9    - 2.3           92.2    -14.7          95.8   -16.7         95.3
1966-67            100.7    - 0.2           93.8       1.7         95.9      0.1        93.3
1967-68            105.0       4.3         111.5      18.9        116.6    21.6        111.1
1968-69            103.3    - 1.6          107.6    - 3.5         114.8   - 1.5        107.0
1969-70            106.2       2.8         112.7       4.7        122.5      6.7       111.7
1970-71            107.3       1.0         118.0       4.7        131.4      7.3       117.1
1971-72            106.7    - 0.6          117.3    - 0.6         130.9   - 0.4        114.3
1972-73            103.4    - 3.1          110.6    - 5.7         120.4   - 8.0        103.0
1973-74            109.4       5.8         117.1       5.9        133.4    10.8        111.8
1974-75            105.8    - 3.3          115.5    - 1.4         129.7(a)- 2.8        106.5
1975-76(a)         107.1       1.2         129.6      12.2        147.4    13.6        118.8
Annual rate of increase (%) between the triennia ended
1951-52 and 1964-65              1.7              1.4             3.2          1.2
1964-65 and 1975-76              0.4              1.5             2.3          0.1
1951-52 and 1975-76              1.1              1.4             2.8          0.7
(a) Estimated by the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy
*    Base:  Triennium ending 1961-62 = 100.
Source: Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, Basic Statistics relating to Indian
Economy, Volume I: All India, October, 1976.
January 28, 1977                                                                132



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Progress of Agricultural Programs 1971/72 - 1975/76
Program                  Unit    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76-1
Gross area irrigated    M ha       38.5        41.0         43.1       43.8       45.4
HVY                                18.2        22.1         25.9       27.1        31.0
Plant protection                   58.0        52.0         63.0       64.0        70.0
Soil conservation                   1.5         2.1          1.6        0.6         1.0
Fertilizer use           M t        2.6         2.7          2.8        2.6         2.9
Pesticide use            1,000 t                                        0.47        0.53
1/ Likely achievements.
Source: Center for Monitoring Indian Economy.
March 8, 1977
133



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Fertilizer Consumption in India
(thousand tons of nutrients)
Year                                  N            P205           K20          Total
1952-53                              58              5              3           66
1953-54                              89              8              8          105
1954-55                              95             15             11          121
1955-56                             108             13             10          131
1956-57                             123             16             15          154
1957-58                             149             22             13          184
1958-59                             172             30             22          224
1959-60                             229             54             21          304
1960-61                             212             53             29          294
1961-62                             292             64             28          384
1962-63                             360             81             36          478
1963-64                             407            117             51          575
1964-65                             435            148             70          653
1965-66                             547            132             78          757
1966-67                             839            249            116        1,204
1967-68                             800            237            130        1,167
1968-69                           1,131            389            154        1,674
1969-70                           1,360            420            209        1,989
1970-71                           1,487            462            228        2,177
1971-72                           1,760            564            304        2,628
1972-73                           1,779            587            333        2,699
1973-74                           1,829            650            360        2,839
1974-75                           1,774            478            339        2,591
1975-76                           2,148            466            278        2,892
Source: Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, Basic Statistics relating to
Indian Economy, Volume I: All India, October, 1976
January 28, 1977                                                 134



ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Growth Rates of Production of 38 Major Crops: 1950-51 to 1975-76
Annual Rate of Increase (%)
Between Triennia Ended
1/                                       1951-52        1964-65          1951-52
Crop-/                                         and             and             and
1964-75        1975-76          1975-76
1.    Rubber                                         7.4           12.0              9.5
2.    Safflower                                       -             9.2               -
3.    Wheat                                          4.0            7.7              5.6
4.    Potatoes                                       4.1            6.1              5.2
5.    Ginger: dry                                    2.6            6.0            - 4.1
6.    Ca&torseed                                  - 0.9             -.9              1.7
7.    Rapeseed and mustard                           3.0            4.8              3.8
8.    Coffee                                         6.8            4.0              5.5
9.    Bajra                                          3.1            3.4              3.2
10.    Nigerseed                                       -             2.4               -
11.    Tea                                            1.9            2.9              2.4
12.    Cashewnuts                                      -             2.7               -
13.    Tobacco                                        2.3            2.7              2.5
14.    Sugarcane: gur                                 3.5            2.5              3.1
15.    Arecanuts                                       _             2.4               -
16.    Maize                                          4.3            2.1              3.3
17.    Linseed                                        1.3            2.0              1.6
18.    Rice                                           3.6            1.8              2.7
19.    Barley                                       - 0.3            1.8              0.6
20.    Guarseed                                        -             1.8               -
21.    Cottonseed                                                    1.5               -
22.    Coconut: copra                                  -             1.4               -
23.    Cotton: lint                                   5.1            1.3              2.4
24.    Groundnut: in shell                            4.0            1.0              2.6
25.    Tur                                          - 1.3            0.7            - 0.4
26.    Ragi                                           4.3            0.3              1.8
27.    O-her pulses                                   1.3            0.3              0.8
28.    Chillies: dry                                  2.5            0.3              1.5
29.    Jowar                                          2.8          - 0.1              1.6
30.    Small millets                                  0.1            0.1              0.1
31.    Bananas                                         -             0.1               -
32.    Pepper: black                                  1.1          - 0.2              0.5
33.    Sesamum                                        0.9          - 0.5              0.3
34.    Tumeric                                         -           -0.5                 -
35.    Jute                                           3.2          - 1.3              1.1
36.    Mesta                                          7.6          - 2.0              3.1
37.    Gram                                           2.6          - 2.2              0.4
38.    Sannhemp                                        -           -3.3                -
Foodgrains                                    3.1             2.4              2.8
Non-foodgrains                                3.4             2.1              2.8
All commodities                               3.2             2.3              2.8
1/   Crops ranked in the descending order of growth rates between the period
1964-65 and 1975-76.
135



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Training
I. Background
1.        Because of ARDC's increase in volume of work, diversification of
lending pattern, growing attention to small farmers' needs, and concentration
on development in lesser developed States, it will place a great demand upon
personnel of lending institutions at every level from headquarters to field
staff. This applies not only to the LDBs, the core of ARDC refinancing work,
but also to CBs and several other institutions and agencies. For this reason,
ARDC plans to intensify and expand in-service training to enhance staff
capability.
2.        For many years, considerable in-service training has been provided
for staff of agricultural lending agencies. With establishment of the Project
Planning and Appraisal Course (PPA) at the RBI College of Agricultural Banking
(CAB) in 1972, training was spread even more widely, regularized, and was
focused on modern methods of project appraisal advocated by IDA. In the
first general line of credit to ARDC in April 1975 (ARDC I), was a triple
approach to the problem covering the two years 1976 and 1977 including: (a) a
training program for senior and middle level staff of certain types of credit
institutions, centering on the Agricultural Projects Course (APC) which opened
in September 1975 (US$200,000); (b) a study of the training needs of junior
level staff of LDB only (US$200,000); and (c) design and execution of a program
for training a substantial number of LDB junior staff in categories found by
the study to need training (US$400,000). Details concerning CAB and training
conducted by other institutions can be found in Annex 6 of the Appraisal Report
of ARDC I (Report No. 562a-IN, March 15, 1975).
3.        The project now proposed is designed to continue:  (a) the senior and
middle level in-service training which is currently well under way; and (b) the
junior level in-service training which will have been half completed by the
closing date of ARDC I if schedules are maintained.
II. Progress Under Previous Credit (ARDC I)
4.        Under provisions of ARDC I, about 750 senior and middle level LDB
staff were to be trained at CAB by the closing date (December 31, 1977). The
projected situation as at the middle of October 1976 is shown in Table 1.
Table 1 shows that although the expectation is for 736 LDB staff to receive
136



ANNEX 6
Page 2
training by the closing date of ARDC I, only 630 will have received APC train-
ing and only 530 of these will have been trained in the normal four-week APC at
CAB.
5.        The content of the existing APC is essentially the same as it was
when it opened in September 1975. At that time, it had the approval of EDI
representatives, who had assisted in its design. It is similar to the earlier
PPA course, which also had the benefit of EDI assistance and which imparted
elements of modern appraisal methods (incremental benefit) to many LDB (and
other) staff members for 1972-75. Adjustments in the overall curriculum of
CAB have been made in order to accommodate the rapid increase in CAB courses.
A second channel of APC was opened in July 1976, doubling the number which can
be offered each year; this channel will be maintained at least through June
1978. Additional capacity has to be provided by introducing two-week APC in
each of the six regions outside CAB, to accommodate trainees who could not be
spared for the four-week period and, therefore, would otherwise receive no
training in modern project appraisal. It is not yet possible to judge whether
two weeks will provide an adequate substitute, but it was clear to CAB that an
earlier experiment with a shorter course was unsatisfactory; after being
offered once, it was discontinued and redesigned before being transformed into
the two-week regional courses that are to begin in December 1976. The essential
differences are:
(a) instead of compressing all subjects in the four-week course
into a series too brief to afford an understanding of each,
the least central subjects are omitted and the essentials
treated in enough depth to be of value;
(b) the subject matter is focused on local crops and conditions
rather than being more diversified; and
(c) field work, which is a quarter of the four-week course, is
omitted but practical case studies are retained.
Other problems inherent in giving this course at a distance from the CAB will
be mentioned in the discussion of ARDC II below.
6.        The study of LDB junior staff training provided for under ARDC I
was thoroughly executed by ARDC, although it took a longer time than expected;
it was published in April 1976 and was studied by IDA in Washington in June.
Problems of implementing the study are mentioned in paras 22-35.
7.        The third training element in ARDC I was to proceed with the LDB
junior staff training program as rapidly as possible after IDA approval of the
study's recommendations. The findings of the study have led to a reasonable
balance between uniformity of basic programs and adaptation to local condi-
tions, with ARDC in a financial position to influence decisively the size and
content of local programs. By November 1976, ten SLDB had begun training
137



ANNEX 6
Page 3
programs of the type envisaged in the study and most of the other seven SLDB
were currently preparing programs. The ten SLDB which had begun their training
represented 70% of the total junior staff designated for training in all SLDB.
By the end of October 1976, nine of the SLDB had established training centers
and undertaken 18 courses under this program; these had given training to 550
junior staff. Only one of the larger SLDB had not yet begun training. All can
be expected to commence before the closing date of ARDC I.
8.        The Training Cell at ARDC headquarters was set up early in 1976.
Training cells have been established in each SLDB in the form of two senior
officers who will function as full time trainers throughout the program.
III. Training Program
A. Senior and Middle Level Staff
Long-Term Needs
9.        The ARDC maintains that over the next three to five years, all senior
and middle level ARDC (318) and LDB (3,723) staff should have received training
of the types conducted under ARDC I. Minimal training needs of CB and Regional
Rural Banks (RRB) were roughly estimated at 2,000, RBI at 100, and State
governments and public corporations at 500. Omitting SCB staff, which would
not be included in the ARDC training program except on an incidental basis, the
need comes to about 6,600, with LDB staff to receive priority attention. This
excludes refresher training.
Training Accomplished and to be Accomplished
10.       The following table shows that (on the basis of figures in Table 1)
by the closing date of ARDC I, almost a quarter of the total will have received
training, including about a fifth of LDB staff.
Training to October 1976       Training to end of 1977
LDB                         226 (6% of need)                736 (20% of need)
Other Institutions          265 (9% of need)                804 (28% of need)
All institutions            491 (7% of need)              1,540 (23% of need)
Training to be Accomplished Under this Project
11.       Table 2 shows that by the end of calendar 1979, the estimated clos-
ing date of this project, it is expected that about 40% of SLDB needs and 45%
of total needs will have been met, apart from any refresher courses that will
eventually have to be mounted. Table 2 also shows that although the expecta-
tion is for 785 more SLDB staff to receive training by the closing date of this
project, only 620 will have taken an APC and only 450 of these will have been
trained in the normal four-week APC at CAB. Over the period of both credits
(four years), the figures would be 1,521, 1,240, and 780, respectively.
1 3.3



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Program for Training under this Project
12.       Target numbers are of no value unless they can be attained with a
good quality of training delivered and absorbed. A practical program has
been designed to achieve this.
13.       APC.  The heart of the program will continue to be the APC at CAB,
Poona. This course has received considerable attention and assistance, in
both design and execution, from EDI over several years, beginning with its
predecessor, the PPA course. By now it has had a substantial impact on the
practice of credit appraisal throughout the country. The increase in the
number of courses being given at CAB does not seem to affect the quality of
the training in the short run, as faculty has been augmented to handle two
simultaneous courses. In the long run, however, the lack of time for course
evaluation and for preparation of new materials may be felt. Additional
facilities have been approved which will enable CAB to expand, reinstituting
certain standard courses that have been suspended to make rcoux for the increase
in APC work and the new course for RRB staff. Three of the senior faculty, in
addition to the Principal, have completed the EDI course. Course content of
APC is considered by EDI to be suitable. Techniques of instruction could be
modernized, but that is not essential and is not an element in this project.
14.       Regional APC.  The innovation in APC is the short regional course
designed to transmit the essentials of modern appraisal in two weeks instead
of four. These are designed and administered by ARDC rather than CAB, using
one full-time coordinator for each course and a series of visi-ing lecturers.
These courses omit the one-week field trip and its analysis, the work on
teaching technique, and certain elements of the four-week APO which are con-
sidered less applicable to the characteristics of the region. For example,
of the six regional courses planned, the one for northeast wnuld emphasize
plantations and horticulture, and the one for the central region would empha-
size land development, command area development, and farm mechanization. The
first of these courses is to take place in December 1976, with 15 more to be
given by the end of 1979. Each would accommodate 35 participants, of whom
about half would be SLDB staff. Only those who could not be spared for the
four-week course at Poona and those who were more concerned with specific
projects in the region, would be admitted to these regional short courses.
15.       Trainees.  The main constraint on expansion of SLDB participation in
the APC (and therefore on increasing the number of APC) has been the availabil-
ity of staff members as trainees. By increasing the number of courses during
the "lean periods" only (July-November generally) and through proselyting
activity by ARDC and CAB, earlier doubts have been modified. At the beginning
of October 1976, there was a waiting list of 450 for the APC--200 of these
from SLDB - and by late November the number had grown to 800 and 300, respec-
tively. However, this is a list "in perpetuity", so that it is not a reliable
reservoir assuring an adequate supply for any particular course. The standard
problem (in any training program) of providing candidates who have adequate
preparation and potential can be solved only by insisting upon training some
of the best qualified staff first, to foster a habit of training those who
will be the most useful in the future rather than those who can be spared
most easily.                                                              139



ANNEX 6
Page 5
16.       Trainers.  Faculty of CAB has been mentioned above.  For the short
regional APC, instructors will come on a visiting basis except for one coor-
dinator. These would be mainly ARDC staff from headquarters and regional
offices, who are considered to have adequate knowledge and experience in the
subjects they will teach. Several are regular visitors to CAB courses and
their ability is known. Others will have had virtually no teaching exper-
ience. Other visiting instructors will be drawn from CB, State government
departments, and elsewhere, usually on a single-lecture basis. Many of the
visiting instructors will have no opportunity to know the trainees they are
instructing. Under such conditions, a great deal of any success achieved will
depend upon the ingenuity of the course coordinator, who will be seconded from
the CAB faculty, and as well, upon monitoring supplied by the Training Cell
at ARDC headquarters (see para 18).
17.       Facilities, Materials and Equipment.  Physical facilities at CAB are
very good and continually improving. Training materials and equipment are also
improving and are adequate for teaching in traditional ways. For the short
regional APC, facilities will be rented or borrowed, usually from an existing
GB training college or center; there are many throughout the country that are
more than adequate. These will include equipment, which, judging from a small
sample, is likely in better colleges and centers to be about the same as that
used at CAB. Training materials will be prepared by ARDC, in consultation with
CAB. Many of the CAB materials will undoubtedly be used, but other items will
have to be produced at ARDC headquarters. The Training Cell's director is
fully aware of the difficulties and believes they can be overcome by existing
staff.
18.       Organization and Monitoring.  Success will depend largely upon the
work done by the ARDC Training Cell of eight professionals and one clerk
located at headquarters in Bombay. This is headed currently by an experienced
senior officer who was formerly Principal of CAB and is a graduate of EDI.
His two deputies are also senior officers with relevant experience. The Cell
reports directly to the Managing Director and will probably continue to do so
under the forthcoming reorganization. These three members of the Cell plan to
spend much of their time in the field monitoring the junior training program
(see para 35) and will also visit regional APC. The other five will remain at
headquarters administering the program and helping to prepare training mate-
rials for regional APC and (mainly) the junior level training program. It is
questionable whether under these conditions sufficient attention will be paid
to training materials, but the director of the Cell is confident on this point
and accepted the suggestion that the National Institute of Banking Management
(NIBM) should be asked to assist to a greater extent than in the past.
140



ANNEX 6
Page 6
B. Junior Level Staff
19.       The in-depth study conducted in 1975-76 by ARDC and SLDB of junior
level staff training needs has provided figures for the following estimates
and the basis for programs discussed below. ("Report on the Estimate of the
LDB Junior Level Staff and their Training Needs", dated April 13, 1976.)
Total Needs
20.       Of the 21,275 staff members of the 19 LDB (including regional and
District offices, branches and PLDB) throughout the country, about 17,550 are
categorized as junior level. It has been assumed that the number will remain
substantially steady over the next few years and that for working purposes,
this will be the number to receive initial training (disregarding both
refresher training and turnover). All are considered to need specialized
training planned under this program by the end of calendar 1979, regardless
of their previous training.
Training Accomplished and to be Accomplished under ARDC I and ARDC II
21.       The study divided junior staff into three groups, by level of staff
position, and determined that 100% of Group I (the highest), 50% of Group II,
and 33% of Group III should receive training by the end of calendar 1977.
These total about 8,800 and are considered the "critical categories" of junior
staff. By the beginning of November 1976, about 550 staff members of nine
LDBs, had already received training in the four-week courses approved by ARDC
under this program. This is about 6% of the 8,800. The junior staff training
proposals of 11 LDB have been approved by ARDC for financing. The entire
program through calendar 1979, and the presumed closing date of this project,
is as follows:
141



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Program for Training LDB Junior Staff
Trainees          Trainees
1976 & 77         1978 & 79
Andhra Pradesh                1,606              625
Assam                            40               14
Bihar                           768              599
Gujarat                         730              797
Haryana                         285              253
Himachal Pradesh                 56               63
Jammu & Kashmir                  30               30
Karnataka                       494              832
Kerala                          107              216
Madhya Pradesh                  638              905
Maharashtra                   1,541            1,375
Orissa                          156              235
Pondicherry                      10                0
Punjab                          304              506
Rajasthan                       413              414
Tamil Nadu                      768              941
Tripura                          15                6
Uttar Pradesh                   519              767
West Bengal                     308              186
Total                    8,788            8,764
Program for Training under this Project
22.       General.  After a sampling of job descriptions and qualifications of
incumbents, an analysis of vertical and horizontal mobility, and an assessment
of existing training arrangements, the ARDC study proposed a four-week analyt-
ical course for Groups I and II and a four-week induction course for Group III.
These courses are to be organized and conducted by SLDB themselves in the
appropriate local languages. Each course will have about 30 participants;
those LDB with fewer than 30 junior staff members will send them to a course
at a neighboring SLDB.
23.       Course Content.  The core of each four-week course is to be appraisal
and recovery methods under the project approach to lending (incremental benefit)
as taught in the APC. However, their objective, and hence the treatment of the
subjects, would be different from that of APC. Junior staff would not be ex-
pected to master the techniques, but would instead be made acquainted with the
purpose and significance of those techniques and the terms and concepts used
in the analysis. They would also be trained in methods of collecting inform-
ation needed to enable middle and senior level officers to do project apprai-
sals, so that all three levels would have the same understanding of what was
to be done and why.
142



ANNEX 6
Page 8
24.       Suitable syllabi have been worked out by ARDC (Appendix IX of the
report cited in para 19), discussed with some of LDB and finalized as guide-
lines for LDB in designing their courses in such a way that ARDC can approve
them for financing. The four-week duration will be uniform, even though SLDB
preference during the study varied from two weeks to ten weeks. There will be
three weeks of classroom and one week of field work.
25.       Trainees.  Availability of trainees is assured by several features
of the program. The courses will be given only during the lean period of work
(July to November or December), so that staff will not be interrupted during
heavy recovery periods. Training will be in the local language. Trainees
will not have to travel outside the State. Furthermore, a planned, regular-
ized program will normally find a place in the total annual work program which
a sporadic effort will not.
26.       Quality of trainees cannot be assured, since all junior staff will
be expected to participate and some are obviously more trainable than others.
The half selected for training during the first two years will usually be the
better qualified, as the more critical posts are scheduled to receive first
attention. A better assessment of trainability can be made after experience
with a few courses so that course content and method can be adjusted accord-
ingly. This is the trial and error method, but anything more pedagogically
sound would be too complicated for acceptance and execution. Trainees will
have to be taken as they are, especially during the second two-year period,
although experience with the training program may even have a beneficial
effect upon future recruitment policy of LDB.
27.       Trainers.  Special effort will have to be exerted to provide good
trainers, as the entire program in an LDB can fail at this point more easily
than at any other. The ARDC recognizes this fact clearly and believes that
the LDB agree. Each LDB has already designated two of its senior officers as
trainers for each training center. They will prepare and organize courses
and will devote full time to training during the training season. They will
handle about half the instruction personnally; guest instructors from ARDC,
ACD, other LDB, State government departments, and elsewhere, will handle the
other half. Of the 48 trainers designated by October 1976, 22 were graduates
of APC at CAB; another 12 were in APC during November. The CAB is giving
priority to trainer-designees for admission to the next few APC.
28.       The APC is not by itself sufficient to produce a good trainer out
of an experienced officer; furthermore, not all the trainers will have an
opportunity to attend APC before instructing. For these reasons, workshops
for trainers are needed as soon as possible. One has already been held at the
Staff Training College of RBI (Madras), organized and conducted by ARDC for
32 trainer-designees from 11 LDB. Instructors in this workshop were subject-
matter specialists, including some experienced trainers, from ARDC, NIBM, and
elsewhere. This one-week session emphasized practical exercises in course
design and programming rather than techniques of classroom presentation. Some
143



ANNEX 6
Page 9
attention was given to the main subject matter to be offered junior staff in
their courses, with the object of: (a) distinguishing the role of junior
staff in this process from the role of others; and (b) imparting as much as
they need to know about project appraisal and recovery.
29.       It is obviously not possible for someone himself unacquainted with
that process and outlook to mark off the portion which junior staff should
know, and this will be a weak link in the chain of training where the trainer
has not himself learned the substance at CAB or elsewhere. By the 1977 lean
period, however, all trainers will almost certainly have been through both the
workshop and APC in addition to their field experience.
30.       Two workshops can handle 60-70 trainers, more than the total number
to be appointed. Since one week of training is not enough to make a good
trainer out of a good normal practitioner, a series of five more workshops in
various regions is planned for 1977 and ten more over 1978 and 1979. Each,
after the first two, will focus on a different feature of the training process.
The ARDC will try to conduct the first few as early as possible in 1977. The
ARDC has been urged to make as much use as feasible of the expertise of NIBM
in teaching techniques. There is no way of knowing at this point how effective
these workshops will be; they should be evaluated by ARDC before many sessions
are held, with a view to revision.
31.       Training Materials.  Three aspects of the training materials problem
have to be faced. One is the translation of existing materials (distributed
by ARDC before course announcement) into regional languages; this is easily
done by LDB concerned or, in the Hindi-speaking area, by a group of LDB.
Another is the production of materials which do not exist; ARDC has compiled
a list of a dozen such topics. This is a task which ARDC may have underrated,
as the topics are broad and sometimes complex. The chief of training at ARDC
feels confident, however, that his Training Cell can produce these materials
itself when necessary, with the help of NIBM and other consultants. The ARDC
also believes that LDB will prepare materials locally that cover topics rele-
vant specifically to individual LDB. Three LDB have been visited and no such
materials were evident as yet. The ARDC is aware of these current deficiencies
and is pressing LDB to provide these materials.
32.       The third aspect is the most difficult -- the conversion of raw
training documents into good training materials. A great deal of sound infor-
mation exists, but much of it is in the form of lectures delivered by guest
faculty at CAB and other training institutions.  Much of this "raw" material
should be converted into manuals, texts, exercises, graphics, etc. Case stud-
ies have been produced and used at CAB and are considered to be one of the most
effective training devices in any context. Yet there are not enough of these
and CAB faculty has little time to produce more. Adaptation of existing infor-
mation to become good training materials and production of new case studies
can be expected to some extent from the trainers of junior staff, but the
amount and adequacy of this material and its interchangeability among LDB are
doubtful. This is another area of concern which will need sharp attention
from ARDC and emphasis in the workshops for trainers.
144



ANNEX 6
Page iO
33.       Facilities and Equipment.  Except for the smaller ones, each LDB
will need a classroom, a hostel, offices, and a small library including audio-
visual equipment. Of these, seven already have their own training centers or
have immediate plans to acquire them, and seven others need most or all of the
facilities but have no immediate prospects. Nevertheless, some of those
without permanent facilities of their own have conducted at least one course
under the new program. Although lack of joint living reduces training effec-
tiveness, there are some LDB where living separately in the town is the only
sensible solution.
34.       The adequacy of training equipment is unknown, but ARDC is aware of
the importance of such basic aids as overhead projectors and slide viewers
where available training materials warrant their use.
35.       Organization and Monitoring.  The ARDC Training Cell (para 18)
expects to spend most of its time on the junior staff program; this will be
essential to its success. Analysis shows that the three senior members of
the Cell could visit all LDB once a month during the lean (training) period
by traveling in the field three weeks out of each month. During the rest of
the year, they could visit each SLDB bi-monthly by spending about one week per
month in the field. This would require them to be away from headquarters on
average about half the working year in order to monitor the junior training
adequately on the ground. At LDB level, a senior official at each Bank would
be in charge of the two training officers on a part-time basis and would be
responsible to the Managing Director.
IV. Cost
36.       Both programs in this proposed project are estimated to cost about
US$2.0 M, allocated as shown in Table 3.
March 1977
145



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Training of Senior and Middle Level Officers Under ARDC I
(Status as of October 1976, omitting possible refresher courses)
Trained through
Mid-Oct. 1976             Additional Training Projected through Dec. 1977
Other  1/             Long APC      Short APC        Other  1/              Total Projected
Institutions         APC     Courses      Total      (at CAB)      (Regional)      Courses      Total      to end of 1977
LDB                 215        11          226        315            100             95         510             736
CB                  159        12         171         240              83
ARDC                 33        25           58          54             20
RBI                   3        18           21          4               2          116          539              804
SCB                   6         -            6          5               2
State govern-
ments, public
corporations,                                                            3
etc.                  10         1           11          10              3          _           _
Total                426        67          493         628            210           211       1,049            1,540
1/ Mainly 2-week technical courses in such subjects as hydrogeology, water management, land improvement,,
poultry, dairy, and fisheries for relevant technical staff members.
H
41
H 0A



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Training of Senior and Middle Level Officers
Projected for Calendar 1978                    Projected for Calendar 1979
APC                                           APC                                 Total Projected
Long        Short       Other  1/             Long         Short       Other  1/          by Closing Date
Institutions        (at CAB)   (Regional)   Courses   Total    (at CAB)   (Regional)   Courses   Total   (end of 1979
SLDB                  250          100          85        435         200          70          80        350           785
CB                    110                                             100
ARDC                    36                                             30
110        135        415                      70         130        350           765
RBI                      2                                              3
SCB                    10                                               7
State govern-
ments, public
corporations,
etc.                   12                                              10
Totals                420           210        220        850         350         140         210        700         1,550
1/ Mainly 2-week technical courses in such subjects as hydrogeology, water management, land improvement,
poultry, dairy, and fisheries for relevant technical staff members.
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>                                                                                                                             X 



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Training Cost - Project Period 1978 and 1979 (Calendar)
No. of    Trainees/  No.of    Duration  Cost/
Courses   Course    Trainees  (weeks)   Course          Cost         Cost
-------Rs -------        US $
Senior and Middle Level Staff
APC at CAB                                          22        35         770        4        65,000    1,430,000
APC in Regions                                      10        35         350        2        35,000       350,000
Technical Courses                                  10         30         300        2       19,000       190,000
Management Seminars (non-officials)                  2        20          40        1        12,000        24,000
Seminars for Chief Executives (LDB & CB)            2         25          50        1       12,000        24,000
Workshops for RBI & ARDC Senior Staff                4        10          40        1        10,000        40,000
Sub-Total                                50                 1,550                           2,058,000       228,667
Junior Level Staff
Courses at LDB Centers                            292         30       8,760        4       45,000   13,140,000
Workshops for Trainers (ARDC, Regional)            10         30         300        1         8,000        80,000
Sub-Total                               302                 9,060                          13,220,000   1,468,889
ARDC Headquarters Expense Allocation
Committees (Internal Group on Training
Steering Group on Junior Training) -
Meetings & Travel                                                                                      100,000
Training Cell Staff (Salaries & Benefits)                                                              1,000,000
Travel (Monitoring Programs and Lecturing)                                                                500,000
Office Space, Utilities, Supplies &
Communication                                                                                          250,000
Equipment (mainly Reproduction)                                                                           350,000
Evaluation & Research (Consultants)                                                                        50,000
Miscellaneous & Contingency                                                                                20,000
Sub-Total                                                                                    2,270,000        252,222
Groundwater Survey                                                                                           450,000         50,000
Total                                   352                 L0.610                          17.998.000      1.99
April 19, 1977
(D



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farmers Development Agencies
1.        The Small Farmers Development Agencies (SFDA) definition of a small
farmer is "a cultivator with landholding below 5 acres; in case of Class I
irrigated land as defined in the land ceiling legislation of the State, the
ceiling will be 2.5 acres".
2.        The main functions of the Small Farmers Development Agencies are:
(i) to identify the eligible small farmers on the basis of potential viability
and investigate their problems; (ii) formulate economic programs for making
them viable; (iii) promote rural industries; (iv) evolve adequate institu-
tional, financial and administrative arrangements for implementing various
programs, (v) promote creation of common facilities for production, storage,
marketing, etc., and (vi) strengthen the existing cooperative institutions
that provide credit, help develop functional cooperatives and strengthen
their supervisory personnel. The first task expected of them was to carry
out surveys in villages and to identify about 50,000 families to begin with
and prepare production and investment plans for them. The programs for im-
proved agriculture include land development, soil conservation, minor irriga-
tion, horticulture, demonstration and introduction of new and improved
varieties and cropping pattern while those for subsidiary occupations include
dairy, poultry, piggery, sheep and goat rearing and also fisheries. The
resources for the program are made available to the participants in the
shape of subsidy (25% in the case of small farmers and 33 1/3% in the case
of marginal farmers and agricultural laborers), and loans from institutional
sources.
3.        There are about 40 M farms that operate less than 5 acres, the upper
limit for SFDA beneficiaries, 2/3 of which (27 M) operate less than 2.5 acres.
The 160 SFDA schemes now in operation have identified 8.5 M beneficiaries 1/
(about 50,000 per scheme), 619,000 of which have benefited under minor irriga-
tion and animal husbandry programs. Total expenditures on the program has
been Rs 850 M during the period of its existence (1970/71 to 1975/76) or
Rs 100 per identified participant and Rs 1,370 per actual beneficiary. Each
scheme has a budget of Rs 15 M for five years but no scheme has been able to
utilize these funds and in no case has it been possible to reach more than 20%
of the identified beneficiaries. The small farmer category shows a higher
proportion reached, while the share reached in the marginal farmers/agricul-
tural laborer category has been correspondingly less. The reasons for this
1/   Including agricultural laborers.
149



ANNEX 7
Page 2
disappointing state of affairs may be that economics of scale and fragmenta-
tion of land make groundwater development on small holdings uneconomic and
that creditworthiness criteria prevent the program from reaching the poorest.
4.        The allocation of SFDA to States is shown in the following table:
Allocation of Agency Units to States
State/Union Territory                     Total Agency Units
Andhra Pradesh                                     15
Assam                                               4
Bihar                                              18
Gujarat                                             6
Haryana                                             3
Himachal Pradesh                                    3
Jammu & Kashmir                                     4
Karnataka                                           7
Kerala                                              4
Madhya Pradesh                                     12
Maharashtra                                        12
Manipur                                             I
Meghalaya                                           2
Nagaland                                            1
Orissa                                              7
Punjab                                             4
Rajasthan                                           6
Tamil Nadu                                         12
Tripura                                             1
Uttar Pradesh                                      26
West Bengal                                         1
Goa, Daman and Diu                                    1/2
Pondicherry                                           1/2
Delhi                                                 1/2
Arunachal Pradesh                                     1/2
Sikkim                                                1/2
Other                                               8 1/2
160
March 1977
150



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
A. Introduction and Background
1.        Monitoring is defined here as timely collection and analysis of
selected data to provide management with information important for current
decision making on project constraints and progress, and indication of im-
plementation problems requiring corrective actions. Evaluatior. is analysis
of project results. It consists of 'on-going evaluation', i.e. continuous
analysis during implementation, and 'ex-post evaluation', i.e. analysis after
project completion. Reporting deals here with the flow of information from
ARDC to IDA.
2.        The ARDC lending program covers a large number of investment cate-
gories in minor irrigation (pumpsets, shallow tubewells, deep tubewells,
etc.), and diversified purposes (livestock, fisheries, horticulture, etc.);
it is implemented through several thousand schemes throughout india. The
magnitude, diversity and geographical distribution of investments financed
through the program, make its monitoring and evaluation difficult and consider-
able progress would have to be made, particularly with evaluation, in order
to reach a satisfactory level. The existing systems are reviewed below and
guidelines for improvements are provided.
Existing Monitoring
3.        The ARDC current monitoring system consists of quarterly reports
from participating banks, which provide data on financial and physical pro-
gress of each scheme, and field supervisions termed by ARDC 'follow-up' studies,
of selected schemes conducted by ARDC regional staff. The main objectives of
follow-up studies are:
(i) to review physical and financial progress, reasons for short-
fall, and procedural as well as operational difficulties;
(ii) to determine whether proper use of funds has been made and
securities are adequate;
(iii) to ensure that terms and conditions of sanctions have been
followed, and examine the extent of adherence to appraisal
methods suggested by ARDC; and
151



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iv) to review lending bank arrangements for supervision and veri-
fication, and ascertain adequacy of supporting services.
During a follow-up study, lending bank branches implementing the s&.eme are
visited, loan records inspected, field visits made and beneficiaries inter-
viewed. During the field visit, the investment is inspected for conformity
with technical criteria (e.g. type of pumpset, distance from nearest well)
and adequacy of services such as farm supply, extension and credit are checked,
as well as the size of the command area land use and yields. A report speci-
fying the main findings and requesting corrective actions is then sent by ARDC
to the lending bank which takes appropriate action. During 1976, ARDC con-
ducted about 250 follow-up studies.
4.        Follow-up studies are essential for control of loan utilization and
progress of schemes as well as for direct contacts with farmers. While super-
vision level has so far been satisfactory, the following main deficiencies
require attention:
(i) the method of beneficiary selection for interviews is unsatis-
factory and the size of sample may be too small;
(ii)  forms used are not standard and questionnaires are often too
long;
(iii)  reports include lengthy case descriptions but lack quantifica-
tion of the main findings; and
(iv)  insufficient analysis and utilization of results.
Existing Evaluation
5.        The ARDC evaluation unit was set up in January, 1974, and has con-
centrated on ex-post evaluation studies with the following objectives:
(i) assess farm-level benefits of schemes and farmers' difficul-
ties in obtaining them;
(ii)  identify the main categories of beneficiaries;
(iii)  identify deficiencies in project formulation, appraisal
and/or execution in order to improve future appraisal; and
(iv)  provide input-output coefficients for appraisals.
Progress with evaluation activities has been slow because the resources commit-
ted to this purpose have been inadequate. ARDC has completed evaluation studies
of four minor irrigation schemes (results are summarized in Annex 1), has
assisted in design and analysis of farm benefit survey of Gujarat Agricultural
Credit Project, and has been preparing plans for evaluation studies of addi-
tional schemes. The small number of studies has been largely a result of the
ARDC tendency to limit the number of studies to its staff capacity rather than
152



ANNEX 8
Page 3
to sub-contract them to research institutions. Also, the time lag between
event and study results, which is unavoidable in ex-post studies, has reduced
the usefulness of findings for operational purposes. The contribution of
evaluation activities to the fulfillment of objectives, and impact on manage-
ment decisions have, so far, been small.
B. Proposed Monitoring and Evaluation
6.        Methodology.  Crucial to improvement of the monitoring and evalua-
tion systems, would be development of a cost efficient monitoring and evalua-
tion methodology suitable to local conditions which would cover the following
issues: (i) definition of clear and limited objectives; (ii) what inform-
ation is required; (iii) method of sampling; (iv) what method of data col-
lection should be used? expensive method generating accurate data (e.g. fre-
quent visits of farmers) or low cost method, generating less accurate ones;
(v) which information should be collected in the course of follow-up studies
and which through evaluation studies; (vi) the possibility to use research
institutions; (vii) utilization of on-going agricultural surveys and studies;
(viii) utilization of monitoring and evaluation systems of the participating
banks; (ix) data processing; (x) presentation and utilization of results; and
(xi) ARDC role: should it be mainly supervisory and advisory or should it
conduct surveys. All these issues must be resolved at an early stage. Expe-
rience has shown that evaluation and monitoring systems which are not properly
designed and implemented, may become expensive, accumulate unnecessary data,
have doubt cast on results' reliability and, therefore, create confusion rather
than improve knowledge. There has been considerable experience in India with
sampling techniques, questionnaire design and data collection methods. Uti-
lization of this knowledge for design of an efficient monitoring and evalua-
tion system would require considerable thought and experimentation. A Project
Evaluation Task Unit would be established by ARDC by December 31, 1977 for
this purpose, and would operate throughout the project period. This unit
would consist of 3 to 4 senior staff who have had previous experience with
design implementation and analysis of surveys and would be either seconded to
ARDC or directly recruited, and would be free of routine duties. It would
propose improvements to the monitoring and evaluation system, supervise imple-
mentation and evaluate their effectiveness. It would assist to design a net-
work of surveys and studies and pay particular attention to the problem of
timely data processing and to the utilization of results by management. The
system designed would follow the general guidelines outlined below.
7.        Monitoring.  During the project period, follow-up studies would an-
nually cover several hundred schemes, in the course of which several thousand
beneficiaries would be interviewed. With adequate selection and data analysis,
a sample of this magnitude should provide management with important information
on project progress and constraints. The ARDC would, therefore, revise the
beneficiary selection by experimenting with several alternative beneficiary
selection designs and comparing the results.
153



ANNEX 8
Page 4
The beneficiary questionnaire would be standardized by type of investment,
be short and concentrate on indicators important for achievement of planned
benefits. For example, in the case of minor irrigation investments, important
indicators besides the technical ones (distance from nearest well, depths
etc would be: ki) investment cost; (ii) time of electrification; (iii) size
of command area; (iv) sale of water; (v) cropping patterns; (vi) availability
of services (extension credit, inputs); and (vii) technology used (or to be
used). It may however, be premature at the time of follow-up study to quantify
incremental production. The beneficiary questionnaire would consist of two
main parts: (a) basic information on the investment and the beneficiary; and
(b) information specific to the scheme supervised. Part (a) of the question-
naire should include a set of questions on income and employment which would
enable ARDC to classify the beneficiary by income category in greater preci-
sion than is possible using the standard definition of small farmers. The
report would quantify the main findings (percentage, averages). Data from
part (a) of all follow-up studies would be analyzed quarterly, by investment,
for each State and for the country as a whole, and results would be incor-
porated in ARDC quarterly reports sent to IDA. Examples of such results are:
(a) percentage distribution of beneficiaries by income category;
(b) percentage of loans which were misutilized;
(c) average cost of investment;
(d) average size of command area (minor irrigation);
(e) average time between the installment of a pump and its
energization;
(f) average length of construction period;
(g) percentage of farmers who use (or intention to use) of
improved technology; and
(h) percentage distribution of beneficiaries' rating of the
adequacy of vital services (such as farm-supply, extension,
credit).
The collection and analysis of data obtained from the lending banks would also be
standardized.
Evaluation
8.        Information on investment costs, category of beneficiaries and
deficiencies in project formulation, appraisal and execution would come from
the follow-up studies (see para 7). The evaluation system would mainly pro-
vide factual information on costs, benefits and financial viability at bene-
ficiary level, of the main agricultural investments refinanced by ARDC. This
information would be used for policy decisions, for example which investments
should be encouraged, loan repayment period, and as a feed-back of input-
output coefficients for planning of future investments. The benefits and the
154



ANNEX 8
Page 5
costs of most agricultural investments are affected by climatic conditions
and vary from year to year. Their evaluation would therefore require a con-
tinuous collection and analysis of data over a period of several years. Given
the variety of investments and their geographical distribution it would be
difficult to achieve a satisfactory coverage without a maximum utilization of
on-going surveys and studies in each state (see Appendix 1).
9.        A coordination committee for agricultural surveys and studies (CCAS)
would be established for this purpose initially in a few (about five) States.
CCAS, whose secretary would be from ARDC, would include represenatives of State
government (Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Statistics), banks and uni-
versities and would meet at least quarterly. It would start its activities
with a comprehensive review of the need for evaluation data and the possibility
to obtain it through improvements of on-going surveys, and would initiate new
surveys. It would endeavor to direct socio-economic research done by univer-
sities towards evaluation of agricultural investments. Where necessary, cost
of new studies would be shared between the ARDC and banks.
10.       Evaluation Results During Project.  In the longer run, it is anti-
cipated that, ARDC would gradually change from actual implementation of eval-
uation studies, to advisory, supervisory and coordinating roles. However, as
the activities of the Evaluation Task Unit and CCAS are unlikely to generate
evaluation results before the end of this project, ARDC would have, as a short
term measure, to increase the number of studies directly conducted by its
staff. During the project, evaluation results would come from the following
main sources:
(i) ten evaluation studies of schemes;
(ii) about ten project completion reports (PCR) for IDA
financed projects; and
(iii) brief end-of-scheme reports.
11.       The following ten evaluation studies would be completed during the
project:  (i) land development in Andhra Pradesh; (ii) land development in
Karnataka; (iii) minor irrigation in Karnataka; (iv) deep and shallow tube-
wells in Haryana; (v) citrus in Andhra Pradesh; (vi) dairy in Maharashtra;
(vii) dairy in Haryana; (viii) poultry in Andhra Pradesh; (ix) poultry in
Maharashtra; and (x) fisheries in Karnataka. About two of these studies would
be sub-contracted to research institutions and the rest would be conducted
by ARDC staff.
12.       Project completion reports (PCR) which would include a considerable
amount of evaluation data would be prepared during the project period for
nine IDA financed agricultural credit projects in the following states:
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana,
Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Bihar. A PCR would be prepared also for ARDC I.
13.       Brief end-of-scheme reports would be prepared by ARDC for schemes
completed during the project period in order to summarize the lesson learned
155



ANNEX 8
Page 6
and utilize it for improvement of design of new schemes. In view of the
large number of schemes completed, the reports would be initially prepared
for a sample of 30 schemes. They would be based on staff experience, results
of follow-up studies, correspondence and other material from the scneme's
file. Guidelines are provided in Appendix 2.
14.       Evaluation results for investments in fisheries would be available
to ARDC as a result of surveys and studies planned under IDA financed Gujarat
Fisheries Project. The ARDC would endeavor to obtain the results of any relevant
evaluation study conducted throughout the country which would be published
during the project period.
C. Reporting
15.       The ARDC issues monthly, quarterly, and annual reports.  A copy of
these reports with a special IDA supplement is sent to IDA. Care has been taken
by IDA to limit supplementary information requirement to data needed for
effective management and information on actual utilization of IDA funds. Under
this project, ARDC would continue providing IDA with quarterly and annual
reports and their supplements, according to guidelines provided below, and
would prepare the format for the returns, to be agreed by IDA.
16.       Quarterly Progress Reports.  The report and its supplement would
cover the following aspects:
(a) General Review. This section would cover matters affecting
the project such as Government policies, staff, legal and
administrative acts, weather conditions, financial and
economic matters.
(c) Training. Progress of training ARDC, LDB and CB staff.
(d) Status of Project's Loan Application: Number of schemes
sanctioned and ARDC commitment during the quarter and cumula-
tive, by State and by category (minor irrigation, diversified
lending).
(e) Project Disbursements
(i) ARDC disbursements (Rs M) by category of farmers
(small, other) and by State, during the quarter and
cumulative;
(ii) analysis of disbursements against IDA credit (in US$ M)
by category of lending (minor irrigation, diversified)
compared with appraisal estimates, explanation of serious
deviations from plan; and
(iii) up-dated disbursement projections to end of project.
156



ANNEX 8
Page 7
(f) Physical Achievements (to be included semi-annually in the
report):
(i) number of units financed during the six months and cumula-
tive from beginning of project; and
(ii) number of units completed during the six months and cumula-
tive from beginning of project.
(g) Monitoring and Evaluation
(i) number of follow-up studies for which reports were
received and the number of farmers interviewed in these
studies, during the quarter and cumulative, by State
and by category of investment; narrative and statistical
summary of main findings, especially percentage distri-
bution of beneficiaries by income category;
(ii)  number of end-of-scheme reports prepared during the
quarter and cumulative and a summary of the main findings;
(iii) progress with evaluation studies and summary findings of
studies completed during the quarter;
(iv) progress of work of Evaluation Task Unit; establishment
of CCAS; and
(h) A list of participating banks would be incorporated in the
September 30, 1977 quarterly report, thereafter, only
deletions and additions, if any, would be reported.
17.       Annual Progress Report.  The report and its IDA supplement would
provide the following information:
(a) ARDC annual balance sheet, profit and loss statements,
auditor's report to the Board, together with projected
budgets, financial estimates and memoir of ARDC activ-
ities during the fiscal year.
(b) Participating banks' annual balance sheets, profit and
loss statements, auditor's reports to the Boards with
specific reference to accounts and reports on project
activities.
(c) Overdues in the IDA Supported Program. Demand and over-
dues in Rs M, and in number of beneficiaries, percentage
of overdues, and percentage distribution of overdues
according to the number of years by State and bank.
157



ANNEX 8
Page 8
18.       Project Completion Report (PCR).  A PCR would be prepared by ARDC
and sent to IDA no later than three months after the end of disbursements
under the project. Guidelines would be provided by IDA.
March 1977
158



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
On-going Agricultural Surveys
1.        A cost efficient evaluation system suitable to ARDC would require
maximum utilization of on-going surveys and studies in each State. A brief
review of the type of surveys which could be utilized for this purpose is
provided below.
2.        A potentially important source of continuous cost-benefit data on
the main crops is the GOI on-going Icomprehensive scheme for studying the cost
of cultivation of principal crops' which covers a sample of a several thousand
farms throughout India. Its main objective is to collect data for formulation
of GOI price policies. Field work is conducted by agricultural universities
which use the cost accounting method, in which farmers are frequently contacted.
Data processing is done by GOI. Although data collected cover all farming
activities in the sample farms, analysis is limited to the crop investigated.
Even then there is a long delay in publication of reports. Indepth and timely
analysis of these studies could provide useful data on cost and benefits of
agricultural investments throughout India. There are similar surveys in a few
States (e.g. West Bengal) which with minor amendments involving small increment-
al costs could also provide useful information.
3.        Annual agricultural production surveys are conducted in each State
by the State Government. Their main purpose is to provide estimates of pro-
duction and land use. With minor amendments and appropriate processing, they
could provide a considerable part of the data required for evaluation of
minor irrigation and horticulture investments. This could include, for ex-
ample, analysis of yield by rainfed and irrigated crops (and further, by type
of irrigation) collection and analysis of data on the use of important inputs
(e.g. seed, fertilizer, pesticide) and cropping patterns.
4.        Universities in various States conduct case evaluation studies of
agricultural investments, and other studies which have relevance to invest-
ment institutions. For example, in one university the head of the department
of agricultural economics has conducted a cost benefits study of minor irri-
gation, about which ARDC did not know. In another state, the reasons for over-
dues were studied and a formula for projecting the probability that the bene-
ficiary would default has been developed in one of the universities without
the knowledge of ARDC or the banks. With appropriate communications the
results of such studies could be utilized for operational purposes.
159



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
5.        Some of the banks have established planning units; however, due to
lack of coordination, each unit has to conduct its own studies in order to
obtain planning parameters such as investment costs, yield per ha, fertilizer
per ha. A coordination of effort could reduce costs and generate more re-
liable data.
6.        To sum up, although the situation with regard to agricultural
surveys varies from State to State, it is generally characterized by the
following:
(i) there is a network of surveys which, with minor changes,
could provide evaluation data on agricultural investments;
(ii) data collected are often not analyzed in sufficient depth;
(iii) there is a serious backlog in processing and reporting; and
(iv) lack of coordination and interchange of information.
ARDC and the banks should play a leading role in improving the situation in
each State as they are main interested parties. Good data are essential
for realistic planning, as a result of which beneficiaries are likely to
realize benefits planned and to repay their loans in time.
March 1977
160



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
End-of-Scheme Reports
1.        The main objective of the end-of-scheme reports would be to
summarize the experience with completed schemes in order to utilize it
for improvement of the design and supervision of new ones. The report
would include the following:
(a) Brief background and description of the scheme.
(b) Review of scheme initiation, preparation and appraisal,
main changes introduced as a result of appraisal, the
main covenants, and analysis of the time gap between
submission, appraisal and sanction.
(c) Comparison of planned and actual results, including scheme
duration, disbursements, number of physical units financed,
and percentage of small farmers; discussion of the reasons
for deviations from appraisal estimates.
(d) Review of the primary bank's method of beneficiary selection,
approval and supervision of the loan, and its recovery policies.
(e) Description of supervision and control by ARDC and the financing
institution, indicating the number and frequency of supervi-
sions, percentage of beneficiaries visited, percentage of loans
inspected, and the percentage of loans which were misutilized
specifying the main categories of loan misutilization.
(f) Description of the main findings during ARDC supervisions, and
corrective actions undertaken by the financing institution.
(g) Review of the financing institution's compliance with ARDC
covenants.
(h) Review of implementation problems and the adequacy of supporting
services (contractors, equipment, electricity, short-term credit,
extension, farm supplies, etc.).
(i) Conclusions and recommendations.
2.        The report would be short (5-10 pages plus annexes) based on docu-
ments from the scheme's file, reports on supervision studies and information
from the ARDC staff. It would be prepared by ARDC regional staff and would
not normally involve additional visits to the scheme area.                     161



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 2
3.        As the number of ARDC schemes completed every year would be large
it may not be feasible to prepare a report for each scheme. End-of-scheme
reports would, therefore, be prepared initially for a sample of about 30
schemes which ended during the project period.
162



ANNEX 9
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
1.        The project lending program would cover a wide range of investments
throughout India, which would be implemented through a large number (about
1,000) of schemes, each normally dealing with one type of investment (minor
irrigation, dairy, poultry, etc.). The financial viability of investments
would vary from area to area due to differences in local conditions. It is
appraised for each scheme by ARDC through representative investment models,
and for each individual borrower by the lending bank, through a calculation
of the incremental net income resulting from the investment.
2.        Ten models were selected to illustrate financial viability of
typical investments. Constant end of 1976 farm gate prices of inputs and
outputs were used in the calculations and are shown in Annex 10. The as-
sumptions made are shown in the footnotes to each Table.
March 1977
163



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Minor Irrigation Models: Cropping Patterns
Without Project                                With Project
Crop                  ha                    Crop                     ha
Model 1: Dugwell with Pumpset (Eastern), 1.2 ha
Paddy kh              1.0                  *Paddy   kh               1.0
Maize kh              0.2                  *Maize kh                 0.2
Gram  ral/            0.2                  *Wheat ra                 o.4
Barley ra             0.2                  *Potato ra                0.2
*Gram   ra               0.2
*Summer paddy             0.2
Total                5                      Total                  2.2
Crop Intensity:       130%                                           180%
Model 2: Shallow Tubewells(Northern), 2.0 ha
Millet kh             O.6                  *Paddy  kh                O.4
Maize kh              0.4                  *Millet kh                o.4
Fodder kh             0.2                  *Maize  kh                o.6
Wheat ra              O.8                  *Wheat  ra                0.8
Gram ra               0.C4                 *Gram   ra                0.2
*Potato ra               0.2
*Cotton                  0.*4
*Sugarcane               0.2
Total               2 .4                    Total                  3.2
Crop Intensity:       120%                                           160%
Model 3: Pumpset (Western), 1.2 Ha
*Sorghum kh            1.0                  *Sorghum kh               o.6
*Maize   kh            0.2                  *Maize   kh               0.2
*Wheat   ra            0.2                  *Wheat   ra               O.6
*Cotton                  0.2
*Sugarcane               0.2
Total               1;                      Total                  1.8
Crop Intensity:       120%                                           150%
Model 4: Pumpset (Southern), 2.0 Ha
Paddy kh              1.2                  *Paddy      kh            2.0
*Paddy kh              C.8                  *Groundnut ra             1.6
*paaay ra              o.4
Total               2.                      Total                   g
Crop Intensity:       120%                                           180%
Model 5: Land Development (Western). 1.2 Ha)
Sorghum kh            1.0                  * Sorghum kh              o.6
Maize kh              0.2                  * Maize   kh              0.2
*Wheat   ra               O.6
* Cotton                  0.2
*Sugarcane                0.2
Total               1.2                     Total                  1.8
Crop Intensity:       100%                                           150%
kh - Kharif; ra - Rabi.                                    *  Irrigated.       164
Source: ARDC.
March 29, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Minor Irrigation Models: Crop Budgets for One Ha
Output                                1/
Crop                                              Cash Inputs-
Yield (ton)    Value (Rs)             (Rs)
RAINFED: Paddy  2-/                   1.2          1,320                  290
Paddy S                     1.1           1,210                 300
Wheat N                     0°7             980                 270
Barley E                    0.5             600                 170
Sorghum W                   0.5             600                 200
Millet N                    0.7             770                 190
Maize N                     1.0           1,000                 290
Maize E                     o.8             800                 240
Maize W                     0.7             700                 180
Gram N                      0.5           1,000                 190
Gram E                      o.6           1,200                 190
Fodder N                    1.0             740                 230
IRRIGATED: Paddy N                      1.9          2,090                  740
Paddy E                     2.2           2,420                 790
Paddy S                     2.0           2,200                 780
Suimmer Paddy E             2.4           2,640                 810
Wheat N                     2.0           2,800                 950
Wheat E                     1.6           2,240                 860
Wheat W                     1.8           2,520                 890
Maize N                     1.8           1,800                 530
Maize E                     1.8           1,800                 580
Maize W                     1.7           1,700                  530
Sorghum W.                  1.5           1,800                 560
Millet N                    1,2           1,320                 500
Gram N                      1.0           2,000                 590
Gram E                      1.2           2,400                 650
Groundnuts S                1.7           2,720               1,030
Cotton N                    1.0           3,600               1,000
Cotton W                    o.8           2,880               1,160
Potatoes N                 15.0           7,500               3,340
Potatoes E                 15.0           7,500               3,310
Sugarcane N                50.0           6,ooo               2,970
Sugarcane W                65.0           7,800               4,080
1/  Seed, fertilizer, manure, pesticide, hired labor, estimated at 1/3 of
labor requirement, and interest on working capital estimated at 12%
on 50% of inputs.
2/  E - Eastern region; S - Southern region; N - Northern region;
W - Western region.
165
Source: Based on ARDC.
April 13, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Minor Irrigation Models: Income Statement-/
(Rs)
Without Project    With Project    Increment
Model 1: Dugwell and Pumpset - 1.2 ha
Gross Income
Crops                                              1,840               6,180          4,340
Sale of Water                                        -                 l,23o_1        1,230
Total                                           1,840               7,410          5.570
Operating Costs
Crops                                                410               2,200          1,790
Pump                                                 -                   630            630
Bullocks                                             300                 600            300
Total                                             710               3,430          2,720
Operating Income                                     1,130               3,980          2,850
Model 2: Shallow Tubewell - 2.0 Ha
Gross Income
Crops                                              2,190               9,220          7,030
Sale of Water                                        -                   8403/          840
Total                                           2,190              10,060          7,870
Operating Costs
Crops                                                570               3,350          2,780
Pump                                                 -                   840            840
Bullocks                                             300                 600            300
Total                                             870              4,790           3,920
Operating Income                                     1,320               5,270          3,950
Model 3: Pumpset 1.2 Ma
Gross Income
Crops                                              2,640               5,070          2,430
Sale of Water                                       -                  1 2304/        1,230
Total                                           2,640               6,300          3,660
Operatin Coats
Crops                                                840               2,020          1,lD,0
Pump                                                 -                   630            630
Bullocks                                             300                 600            300
Total                                           1,140               3,250          2,110
Operating Income                                     1,500               3,050          1,550
Model 4: Pumpset 2.0 Ha
Gross Income
Crops                                              4,090               8,750          4,660
Operating Costs
Crops                                              1,300               3,210          1,910
Pumpck                                                                   740             740
Bullocks                                             300                 600            300
Total                                           1,600               4,550          2,950
Operating Incoe2,490                                                     4,200          1,710
Model 5: Land Developsent 1.2 ha
Gross Income
Crops                                                740               5,070          4,330
Operat ing Cos ts
Crops                                                240               2,020          1,760
Bullocks                                             250                 600             350
Total                                             490               2,620          2,130
Operating Income                                       250               2,450           2,200
1/  Calculation of income and operating costs for crops based on Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex.
2/ 350 hrs. - Rs 3.50
3/ 200 hrs. = Rs 4.20
4/  350 hrs. - Rs 3.50                                                                          166
March 28, 197T



INDIA
SZ=0 AaIW LUAL W086CM ADM  DZVflOf                  COR WPORATION CaEDI? P1028C
Miser Orriaattle   Model  Cah P1lm Prot.stie.-
1        2        5                                            8         9       10O      11       12       13        14      15
Mo,del 1:, 2,sowa1sn429st
ToOler: Ponds Desarated 1/             ~~~860    1,710   2,280    2,850  2,850   2,850   2,850   2.850   2,850   2,050   2,850   2, 850   2,850   2,850  2,850
Projeet 1,oa  (95%)                        9, 00-0
BOrrOt,ee. Coetrtibtio-  (5%)                500
Total Inflow                                   10,560       1,710   2,280    2,850  2,850   2,810   2,850   2,850   2,80850 2,50              2,50   2,950   2,850   2,850  2,855
Outflow: Isveote,t 2/                              9,500        -         -         -       -        -        -        -      2,500       -        -        -        -        -      (130)
Dobt Service: Curret 2/                    650      1,480   1,480      1,480  1,480   1,480   1,480   1,480           800      000      800      000       000      000    8000
Price lode,,               100        107      114        125     131      140      158      161      172      184       197      210      220      241    250
Contstnt 1976              630      1.380  1L300    1,200  tJ130   1,060            990      920      470      450      410       380      260      550    210
Total Outflow                                  10,150       1,580   1,500      1,200  1,150   1,560         990      920   2,970       451      410       580      560      558    T!4
Net Cool Plow:  A--ue                                220        250      900    1,650  1,72.0  1,790   1,860   1,950           (120)  2,420   2,440   2,470   2,490   2,520   2,670
Cueoltiv-                          220        560   1,540    3,190  4,910   6,7900   0,560  10,490  10,570  12,790  15,251   17,70(1  20,190  22,710  25,580
Debt Service Coveage   4/                          1.4        1.2      1.0       2.4    2.5       2.7       2.9      2.1      6.1      6.6      7.0       7.2      7.9      0 6    9.2
Fineoiel Rate of Rococo                           267,
Model 2: Shallow Tuhowe1
Ibfl: rondo Gee-eted                               1,190      2,270   2,160    2,950  3,950   2,920   3,950   2,920   2,950   3,950   5,950    5,920  3,900   5,950  5,950
Project Lose (902.)                      0,100
Oore..er Cootributloo  (10%)                900                ---                                                             ;3      -                          
Toe                                         ToOow10190  2,370   3160    T,950  T,950   3,950   3,950   Y,950   390 3,50                    3,950950    5 3,50 2,5 390
Outflow: Iloveutrt 5/                              9,000        -        -          -       -        -        -        -      3,500       -        -        .        -         -      (200)
Dolt Seeilee: Cu--et 4570                           1,470   1,470    1,470  1,470   1,470   1,470   1,470             820      820      050       020      020      020    020
Pcio  Index                                100        107      114        127    151       140      150      161      172      184       197      210      225      241    2550
Conete-t 1976                              570      1 370   1.290      1.200  1 120   1.050         980      910      480      49A0     420      400       360      340    320
Tota   otflow                                   9,570       1,370   1,290      1,200  1,120   1,050         980      910   5,980       150      420       400      360      340     120
Ret C.ol Flow: An..oal                               620      1,000   1,870    2,750  2,030   2,900   2,970   5,040             (30)  3,501    3,550   3.550    3,590   3.610  3,030
Coomulti-                           620      1,620   3,490    6,240  9,070  11,970  14,940  17,900  17,950  21,450  24,980  20,331   32,120  35,750 593560
Dolt Service C-vere                                2.1        1.7      2.5       3.3    3.5       3.8       4.0      4.3      0.2      8.0      9.4       9.9     11.0    11 6   12 5
Fi-inell Rate of Rocc                              41%
Model 3: Poop-et (1.2 H.)
inflow: Foods Go.er-ted                              470        950   1,240    1,550  1,550   1,550   1,350   1,550
roject Loon (95%)                         3,300
Oorrowec   Cootributiss (57,)               200
Toa  Inlw3,970                                             930   1,240      1,550  1,550   1,550   1,050   1,550
Outflow: Ioveto-ot 7/                              3,500        -         -         -       -        -        -        130o)
Debt Serice: Corret 8/232                             690      690        600    690       690      690      690
PuRee loden                100        107       114       123    131       140      150      161
Cons.tant 1976            -230        640      610        560    530       490      460      42
Total Outflow                                   3,730         640      610        560    530       490      460      260
Set IC.h FLow: Annoal                                240        290      6210       990  1.020   1,060   0,090   1,230
C,neolti-e                          240        530   1,160    2,150  3,170   4.230   5,520   6,570
Dolt Service Coverage                ~~~~~2.0    1.3      2.0        2.8    2.9       3.2      3.4      3.6
EcnilRote of Rococ                           380%
Model 4: Ponpot (2.0 Hn)
inflow: Funds Genertetd                              510      1,030   1,370       1,700  1,710   1,710   1,710   1,710
ProJect Loon (90%.)                       5,150
B -rrwer  Co-teibocion  (10%.)              350
Total Inflow                                    4,010       1,030   1,370    1,710  1,710   1,710   1,710   1,710
Outflow: lu-et-ot 7/                               3,500         -        -         -       -        -        -        (130)
Dolt lervto: Ourret 0/                     220        660       660       660    660       660      610      660
Price rodeo                100         107      114       123    131       140      150      161
Cou-tot 1976               220        620      500        540    500o      470      4.40     410
loud1 lotflo                                    3,720         620      500        540    500       470      440      280
Net Cool Flow: Aomuj                                 290        410       790    1,170  1,210    1,240   1,270    1,430
C:olative                           290        700   1,490    2,660  5,070   5,010   6,560   7,015
Dolt Senten Covoroce                               2.5        1.7      2.4        3.2    5.4       3.f      3.9      4.2
Fincofl  Rae  R    Rott  r                         43%
lufl-w  rondo Goene-ted                              660      1,320   1,760    2,200  2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,250  2,200
Prnjent loon (95%)                        1,900
T  Ste1 ower-n Conteibtino  (5%)                100                                                                                                                             -
Tota  bO                                     2,660       1,320   1,760    2,200  2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200    2,205    2,200   2,200   2,200  2,200
Outflow:  levent-nt                                2,000         -        -         -       -        -        -         -        -
Dolt Serice: C-rret,                      13          0        0          0       00      400      400      400      -        -         -                 -        -
Price loden               100        107       114       123    131       140      150       161      -        -        -        -        -         -
Cn...tant 1976            130        570      550        350     31       20       27       25        -                 -        -        -         -
local Outflow                                   2,150         370      350        330    310       280      270      250      -         -        -        -                 -
Sot Cash Flow:  A-nua                                550      950       1,410    1,870  1,090   1,920   1,930   1,950   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200  2,200
CuosletOe                          0530     1,480   2,990    4,760  6,650   8,570  10,500  12,450  14,650  16,050  20,050  21,250  23,450  25,650 27,050
Dolt OS.-Ie. C-veoo                                5.1        3.6      5.0        6.7    7.1       7.9      8.2      8.3
Filoacill Rate ofPRococ                             one 50%
±i  Jnatonrtngne    sac,ioesoa    prtn   noe  as a                                 . pretage cf full dovelpoat i - trcaco                iscco    -easucd to he eso follows:
yea I - 30%, year 2 - 60%., year 3 - 80%., from year 4 - 1007..
2/  Oopoec.,   -poovlsso,   ..c...cries end iontallacicn Re 5,500, well Rs 6,000, total Re 9,500. Replacemet of poop in lear 0 - Rs 2,500
2! On eer I interest ss1y on 2/3 of the loon; the p,rioeipa1 is aee,ttised at 10.57 a-nsal interes.t as fellers, actor (Re 5,500) On Y-oru 2-0; well (Rs 5,700) in Foot 2-15
4!  Calnelated (io all  wodels) from  the net be..efit. atreo    hinh equal epeacioS io-   (funds Sge.er.und) ninun i-eto..nt c-t-
5/  Icvotnt s..unists of Re 5,500 fee p-spset, Re 2,100 for podh.sceo atn.....lri   and iseta1latlc-, end Re 5,400 for the tcla,nll.
6/  to yea  I istoreot only en 2/3 of the lean; the princJPal in a-tised at 10.57, annual interest asfeos  R. 5,150 to yearn 2-8 and Rs 5,050 in years 2-15
2/  PwoV.et noot R. 5,500.
0/  1n yea  I Interet ncly  -n 2/3 nO the loon; the Principal is  -oetised in yeses 2-8 at 10.57, annua  interest.
9/  In yea  I iter..at only cc 2/3 of the Ic.-; the princiPal I.e aotiead in y-sr  2-8  at 10.50%  annel foterest.    -                                                           162
Hiars 28, 1977



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Model 6: Coconut (without irrigation) 0.5 ha1/
(Rs)
-----------------------------------     -- ---------------------  Years    -------------------------- -------------------  -------------------
1           2           3          4          5          6          7          8            9          10           11          12         13-25
I. INCOME STATEMENT
Income
Coconuts                                        -           -           -          -          -        609       1,218      1,827        2,436       2,741        3,045       3,350         3,654
Intercrops2/                                   400         400         400        400        400       400         400        400          400         400          400         400           400
Total                                       400          400         400        400        400    1,009        1,618      2,227        2,836       3,141        3,445       3,750        4,054
Operating Costs
Fertilizer                                                                                                         565
pesticides                                                                                                          70
Wages3/                                                                                                            187
Miscellaneous                                                                                                       21
Intercrops                                      80          80          80         80         80         80         80      ____         _______
Total                                         80          80          80         80         80         80        923        923          923         923          923          923          923
Operating Income                                 320         320         320        320        320        929        695      1,304        1,913       2,218         2,522       2,827        3,131
Less Operating Income Without Project            160         160         160        160        160        160         160       160           160         160          160         160          160
Incremental Operating Income                     160         160         160        160        160        7         33        1,144        1,753       2,058         2,362       2,667        2,971
IT.   CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds Generated                                  160         160         160        160        160        769        535      1,144        1,753       2,058         2,362       2,667        2,971
Project Loan (95%)                               798         357         554        707        707        801          -          -            -           -            -           -             -
Borrower's Contribution (57)                      42          19          29         37         37                                        -                            -                          -
Total Inflow                                 1,000         536         743        904        904      1,570        535      1,144        1,7 3       2,058         2,362       2,677        2,971
outflow
Investment4/                                     840         376         583        744        744        843               -                  -           -            -           -             -
Debt Service: Current5/                           44         108         158         227       305        388         926        926          926         926          926         926
Price Index                       100         107         114        123        131        140        150        161          172          184          197         211
Constant 1976                      44         101         139        185        233        277        617        575          538         503           470         439
Total Outflow                                 884         477         722        929        977      1,120        617        575          538          503          470         439            -
Net Cash Flow:
Annual                                           116          59           21        (25)       (73)      (450)       (82)       569        1,215       1,555        1,892       2,228         2,971
Cumulative                                       116         175         196        171         98        548        466      1,035        2,250        3,805        5,697       7,925            -
III.   FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Debt Service Coverage                            3.6         1.6         1.2        0.9        0.7         2.8        0.9        2.0          3.3         4.1           5.0         6.1
Financial Rate of Return_/                       307
1/  The model is based on data from Kerala Agricultural Development Project which was appraised in 1976.
2/  Based on 0.4 ha of grau or equivalent.
3/  Sired labour costed at Rs 8.00/day and Rs 6.5/day for men and women respectively.
4/  Planting material, fertilizer, chemicals and wages for hired labour.
m     5/  In years 1-6 interest only; the principal is amortized in years 7-12 at 111 annual interest.
6/  Calculated from the net benefit stream which eq:uals incremental operating income minus investment costs.
March 28, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 6
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Model 7: Dair  (2 cross-bred cows)
-------------------- Years ---------------------
1        2         3         4        5
I.    INCOME STATEMENT
Gross Income
Milk  2/                            3,390    6,780
Manure-13                             100       200
Total-3                           3,490    6,980    6,980    6,980    6,980
Operating Costs
Green Fodder4/                        360       720
Dry Fodder5/6/                        260       530
Concentrates-       7               1,040    2,070
Veterinary Services-                  100       200
Insurance /                            50       100
Miscellaneous(10%)                    180       360                          _
Total Operating Costs             1,990    3,980    3,980    3,980    3,980
Operating Income                    1,500         3,000    3 9 000    3,000    3,000
II.   CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds Generated                     1,500    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
Project Loan             (95%)      5,320
Borrowers' Contribution ( 5%)         280
Total Inflow                      7,100    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
Out flow                                  9                                       _
Investment            11/           5,60        -        -         -       1,100)1
Debt Service: Current-                290    1,710    1,710    1,710    1,710
Price Index            100       107      114       123       131
Constant 1976          290    1,600    1,500    1,390    1,300
Total Outflow                     5,890         O    1,500    1,390        200
Net Cash Flow: Annual               1,210    1,400    1,500    1,610    2,800
Cumulative          1,210    2,610    4,110    5,720    8,520
III.   FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Debt Service Coverage               5.2       1.9      2.0       2.2       2.3
FRR 12/                             Over 50%
1/    Number of lactation days for 2 cows: year 1 - 265, years 2-5 - 530; average
production per cow 8 liters/day @ Rs 1.60.
2/    Year 1 - 20 carts, years 2-5 - 40 carts @ Rs 5.00.
3/    The value of calves is assumed to equal their maintenance costs; both are omitted
from calculation.
4/    18 tons @ Rs 40, based on 25 kg/day per animal; 9 tons in year 1.
5/    4.4 tons @ Rs 120, based on 6 kg/day per animal; in year 1 50% of these rates.
6/    2.3 tons @ Rs 900, based on 1 kg/day per animal throughout the year plus 3 kg/day
per animal during lactation; in year 1 50%.
7/    4% of cost of animals.
8/    2% of cost of animals.
9/    Two crossbred cows @ Rs 2,500, shed Rs 500, equipment Rs 100.
10/    Residual value of shed and equipment Rs 300, and sale value of wulled cows Rs 800.
11/    Year 1 interest only (on 50% of loan); the principal is amortized in years 2-8 at
11% annual interest.
12/    Calculated from the net benefits stream which equals operating income minus
investment costs.
March 28, 1977                                                                       169



AN1EX 9
Table 7
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Model 8: Poultry (1.000 layers)
IRs '000)
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    Yeers  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -
1      2       3       4        5        6        7       8        9       10
I  INCOME STATEMENT
Gross Income
Eggs 1/                                 70.4
Manure g                                 2.5
Sale of empty gunny bags 3/              1.0
Sale of culls 4/                         9.0
Total                                82.9    82.9    82.9   82.9       82.9     82.9    o2.9   82.9    82.9
Operating Costs
Chicks 5/                                4.0
Feed 6/                                 51.0                                                                40.0
Medication, vaccination 7/               2.0                                                                 2.0
Water and electricity 8/                 2.0                                                                 2.0
Maintenance and repairs 9/               0.9                                                                 0.9
Miscellaneous and overheads
(10%)                            -    6.0                                                                 4.4
Total Operating Costs                65.59   65.9    65.9 6 .95 9
Operating Income                    -   17.0    17.0    17.0   17.0       17.0     17.0    17.0   17.0    33.6
II  CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds generated                     -   17.0    17.0    17.0   17.0       17.0     17.0    17.0   17.0    33.6
Project loan (90%)               54.0     -        -       -
Borrower's contribution (10%)   6.0        -
Capitalized interest 10/          3.0     -        -       -      _         _        _        _      -        -
Total Inflow                  63.0   17.0    17.0    17.0   17.0       17.0     17.0    17.0   17.0    33.6
Outflow                              1/-                   -      -        4C~                                    3
Investment           14/         60.0-   -                                 4.0 _   o  - -                  (20.0)-
Debt Service: Current-            3.0   12.1    12.1    12.1   12.1       12.1     12.1    12.1      -
Price Index      100    107      114     123    131       140       150     161
Constant 1976      3.0   11.3    10.6      9.8    9.2       8.6       8.1     7.6      -
Total Outflow                 63.0   11.3    106T      9     9, 2   8 7 .2        _                     (20.o)
Net Cash Flow: Annual              -     5.7  6T.         7.2    7.8 8.h           -*-9   9.4   17.0    536
Cumulative         -      5.7    12.1    19.3   27.1      31.5      40.4    49.8   66.8   120.4
III. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Debt Service Coverage              -     1.5      1.6     1.7    1.9       2.0      2.1      2.2
FRR 15/                          26%
1/ Based on 1,000 layers, 220 eggs per layer/year e Rs 0.32.
2/  Rs 2.50 per layer per annum.
3/ Rs 1 per layer per annum
4/ Rs 9 per layer
5/  1,150 chicks one day old (assuming 15% mortality) @ Rs 3.50; no chicks in year 10
6/  1,100 chicks @ 10 kg/6 months at Rs 1.0/kg; 1,000 layers @ 40kg at Rs 1.0/kg.
In year 10 feed costs for layers only.
7/  Ha 2 per layer
8/ Rs 2 per layer
9/  2% of investment in buildings and equiplment (Rs 45,000).
10/ 11% on 50% of loan
11/ Buildings Rs 41,000, equipment Rs 4,000, chicks Rs 4,000, feeding costs
of chicks Rs 11,000, total Rs 60,000.
12/ Replacement of equipment
13/ Residual value of buildings (50%)
14/ The principal and capitalized interest are amortized in years 2-8 at
11% annual interest
15/ Calculated from the net benefits stream which equals operating income
minus investment costs.                                                                             170
April 13, 1977



T.ble.4
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Model 9: 11 m. Mechanized Fishing Vessel
(Rs '000)
                    - - -- - - - - -  Years-- - - - - - - -                       
1      2       3      4      5       6      7       8    9-10    11   12-14       15
I. INCOME STATEMENT                              2
Production of fish                  41.4- 103.6- 103.6 103.6 103.6  103.6  103.6  103.6  103.6  103.6 .103.6  103.6
Operating Costs                                4
Fuel and Lubricants                  6.6- 16.6-/
Maintenance of hull and engine       2.5k  6.3k/
Gear Maintenance and Replacement   1.58-   60--
Wages                                6.2- 16 3-,
Food                                03/  231
Ice                                 0'.3-   1 0-
Insurance                           2.23, 5.5k'
Port Dues                            0.43/ 1.9-/
Miscellaneous and Overheads (10%)  2.1    5.6
Total Operating Costs             22.8   61.5   61.5   61.5   61.5   61.5   61.5   61.5  61.5    61.5   61.5   61.5
Operating Income*                  18.6   42.1   42.1   42.1   42,1   42.1   42.1   42.1  42.1    42.1   42.1   42.1
II. CASE FLOW
Inflow
Funds Generated                     18.6   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1  42.1    42.1   42.1   42.1
Project Loan (87.5%)              123.0
Borrower's Contribution (12.5%)    17.5
Total Inflow                    159.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1   42.1  42.1    42.1   42.1   42.1
Investment                        140.515/  -       -       -      -       -      -       -     -      54.0/  -   (34.84/
Debt Service: Current-8/             6.8   26.1   26.1   26.1   26.1   26.1   26.1   26.1    -           -      -       -
Price Index         100    107    114    123    131    140    150    161
Constant 1976        6.8    24.4   22.9   21.2   19.9   18.6   17.4   16.2    -           -       -     _
Total Outflow                   147.3   24.4   22.9   21.2   19.9   18.6   17.4   16.2    -          54.0     -   (34.-)
Net Cash Flow:
Annual                           11.8   17.7   19.2   20.9   22.2   23.5   24.7   25.9  42.1   (11.9)  42.1   76.9
Cumulative                       11.8   29.5   48.7   69.6   91.8  115.3  140.0  165.9 250.1   238.2  322.4  399.3
III. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Debt Service Coverage                2.7    1.7    1.8    2.0    2.1    2.3    2.4    2.6
FRR 19/                             33%
1/   4 months of fishing during year 1.
2/   From year 2, annual landing per annum 60 tons of which 5 tons shrimp @ Rs 9,000 and
55 tons fish @ Rs 1,065. In year 1, 40% of the above.
3/ Cost in year 1 40% of cost in year 2+.
4/   Diesel 180 days, 10 hours/day, 6 liters/hour @ Rs 1.40; oil 108 liters (1% of diesel) @
Rs 10; grease 25 kg @ Rs 14.
5/ 5% of capital cost of hull, engine and miscellaneous items (Rs 125,500).
6/   10% of capital cost.
7/   40% of capital cost.
8/ Wages for four months.
9/ Wages per month during 9 months season (Rs): skipper 450, driver 350, 3 deckhands
250 each; during 3 months monsoon 50% of the above rates.
10/   Value Rs 2.50/day for each crew, 180 days.
111   15 tons @ Rs 65.
12/   Insurance 3.75% of investment, Rs 200 per annnum for crew.
13/   4 months @ Rs 100.
14/   Port fees Rs 1,200, slipway charges Rs 700.
15/   Rull Rs 70,000, Engine Rs 54,000, equipment Re 1,500, gear Rs 15,000, total Rs 140,500.
16/   ReDlacement of engine.
17/   Salvage values: hull and miscellaneous items 10%, engine 40%, gear 40%.
.'8/   Year 1 interest only (on 50% of loan);  the principal is smortized in years 2-8 at 11%
annual interest.
19/   Calculated from the net benefits stream which equals operating income minus investment costs.
5/ It is assumed that the beneficiary, being a cooperative member, is exempted from income tax.
March 28, 1977                                                                                                171



ANNEX 9
Table 9
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Model 10: Mechanized Canoe'
(Rs '000)
-_______________________--- Years -----------------------
1      2       3      4       5      6       7       8      9       10
I. INCOME STATEMEXT
Production of Fish I/                 22.5   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25-0   25.0
Operating Costs
Fuel and lubricants-/                  2.2
Maintenance of boat-4/                 0.5
Maintenance of motor-                  0.5
Gear maintenance and replacement-    3.7
wagesa/                                7.2
Food7/       8/                        1.5
Miscellaneous-                         0 &
Total Operating costs                 16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4   16.4
Operating Income                       6.1    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6
II. CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds Generated                        6.1    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6
Project Loan (92.5%)                  29.0
Borrower's Contribution (7.5%)         2.4                                    _                             _
Total Inflow                          37.5    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6
Outflow
Investment-/                          31.4    -       -       -      -       5.610/-        -       -      (8-7) -/
Debt Service: Currentl2J               3.2    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    -             -
Price Index                     100    107    114    123    131    140    150    161
Constant 1976                     3.2    5.7    5.4    5.0    4.7    4.4    4.1    3.8    -            -
Total Outflow                         34.6    5.7    5.4    5.0    4.7   10.0    4.1    3.8    -           (8.7)
Net Cash Flow:  Annual                 2.9    2.9    3.2    3.6    3.9   (1.4)   4.5    4.8    8.6   17.3
Cumulative            2.9    5.8    9.0   12.6   16.5   15.1   19.6   24.4   33.0   50.3
III. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Debt Service Coverage                  1.9    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8    2.0    2.1    2.3
FRP1 3/                                              30%
*  Based on data from Gujarat Fisheries Project which was appraised in 1976.
1/  From year 2, 16 ton fish; 20% Cl, 20% C2, 10% C3, 50% C4; price  per ton Rs 3,330, 2,470, 1,050 and 480
for Cl, C2, C3 and C4 respectively,  average price Rs 1,500/ton;  50 kg. lobsters @ Rs 20.  In year 1,
90% Of the value of catch in year 2+.
2/ 2 hrs. of operation per day, 200 days per year total 400 hrs. per annum; 35 hrs. on petrol at 2.5 l./hr.
total 87.5 1. @ Rs 3.60; 365 hrs. on kerosene at 2.5 1./hr. total 912.5 1. @ Rs 1.25; Oil 65 1. @ Rs 10;
grease 5 kg. @ Rs 14.
3/ 3% of capital cost.
4/ 9% of capital cost.
5/ 40% of basic cost.
6/ 3 crew: 1 at Rs 300/month, 2 at Rs 250/month, for 9 months.
7/  Includes fish consumed on boat and fish taken home; estimated value based on Rs 2.50/day for each crew, 200 days.
8/ 5% of operating costs.
9/ Canoe Rs 15,000, motor Rs 5,600, nets Rs 9,300, sail and equipment Rs 1,500, total Rs 31,400.
10/  Replacement of motor.
11/  Salvage value of canoe (33%) and nets (40%).
]    Year 1 interest only; the principal is amortized in years 2-8 at 11% annual interest.
13/ Calculated from the net benefits stream which equals operating income minus investment costs.
April 13, 1977
172



ANNEX 9
Table 10
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return Sensitivity Tests
( % )
Model                              FRR    Investment    Operating Costs         Benefits
+10%  +15%       +10%  +15%        -10%  -15%
Dugwell and pumpset                 26      23    22         23    22           20    17
Shallow Tubewell                    41      36    34         36    34           31    27
Pumpset 1.2 ha                      38      34    32         31    28           26    20
Pumpset 2.0 ha                      43      38    36          34    29          28    20
Land Development               Over 50       Over 50          Over 50            Over 50
Coconut                             30      28    27         29    28           27    25
Dairy                          Over 50       Over 50  Over 50    45             41    30
Poultry                             26      23    22         14      8          11      3
Mechanized Fishing Vessel            33     29    28          27    24          23    18
Mechanized Canoe                     30     26    24          21    16          16    10
March 28, 1977
173



ANNEX 10
Page I
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Production
1.        The project's primary economic benefit would be an increase in
agricultural production for domestic consumption and export. The project
would complete some investments initiated earlier, mostly under ARDC I and
the State based agricultural credit projects, and initiate others that, due
to this project's short duration, would be completed after its end. Estimates
of the project's impact on production should, therefore, be regarded as indi-
cators rather than precise figures. Incremental production estimates (paras
7.01-7.02) are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Minor Irrigation and Land Development: The total area
brought under irrigation would be about 0.9 M ha. The
increase in crop area resulting from increase in crop
intensity is estimated at about 400,000 ha.
(b) Diversified Lending:
Investment                 Unit                No. of Units
Plantation and
Horticulture           ha equivalent /a            20,000
Dairy                        1 cow                   60,000
Poultry                     50 birds                 34,000
Sheep                       25 ewes                  14,500
Fishing                     vessel                      460
/a   Investment period in plantation/horticulture is 4-6
years; as the project period is only 2 years, the
number of ha equivalent was calculated by dividing
the total estimated investment in plantation/
horticulture by the average investment per ha over
4-6 years.
Economic Rate of Return
2.        Economic rates of return were computed for the same models which
were used for financial analysis (Annex 9). The main assumptions made are
the following:
174



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(a) Crop development patterns and physical coefficients
are the same as in the financial analysis.
(b) Prices of internationally traded inputs and outputs are
based on Bank projections for 1980, with adjustments
for transport, handling, processing and quality. Com-
modities like eggs, milk and fish were priced at cur-
rent farmgate price. Prices are listed in Table 3.
(c) Economic benefits from sale of water are based on the
computed incremental economic benefits per hour of
pump operation.
(d) Current costs (financial analysis estimates) net of
duties and taxes are used for estimating investment
costs.
(e) The investment in electric connections was added to
investment costs in the minor irrigation models (ex-
cluding land development). The economic price of
electricity was estimated at Rs 0.35 per kwh.
(f) The economic price of hired labor was assumed to equal the
going wages. Given the high rates of underemployment
and unemployment, especially among small farmers who would
be the majority of the beneficiaries (over 50%), the
economic price of family labor was shadow priced at 50%
of hired labor rates; the sensitivity of the ERR to this
assumption was tested (assuming full hired labor rates
for family labor) and found to be small.
(g) Foreign exchange was shadow priced at the rate of US$1 =
Rs 12 which is about 33% higher than the prevailing rate
of about US$1 = Rs 9. The shadow exchange rate (SER)
was derived from the average standard conversion factor
(SCF) for India over the last five years which is esti-
mated at 0.75.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rates of return would
range from 22% to over 50%, as shown below and in Table 1:
175



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Model                           ERR (%)
Dugwell and pumpset                    27
Shallow tubewell                       41
Pumpset (1.2 ha)                       35
Pumpset (2.0 ha)                       32
Land development                  over 50
Coconut                                22
Dairy                                  39
Poultry                                23
Mechanized fishing vessel              39
Mechanized canoe                       34
Tractors                               n.a. /1
Weighted Average /2              about 32
/1   Economic aspects of tractors have been in-
vestigated in Bank financed studies in Punjab
and in Gujarat. Based on the Gujarat study
the PCR for Gujarat Agricultural Credit Proj-
ect estimated the ERR of tractors at 16%.
The results of both studies are, however,
regarded inconclusive. An additional
investigation of the economics of tractors
will take place during 1978 in connection
with the preparation of a PCR for Punjab
Agricultural Credit Project.
/2   Excluding tractors.
3.        Sensitivity analysis was carried out to examine the affect of
changes in costs, benefits and SER on the rate of return. Results are
shown in Table 2.
April 1977
176



ANNEX 10
Table I
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(Rs '000)
Model                                ------------------------------------------------ Yeerr --------------------------------------------------------------
1       2        3       4        5        6       7       8_      9        10        11       12        13        14        15
1.  Dugwell tnd Pumpset
Benefits                       2.4     4.7      6.3      7.9    .29       7L9     2.9  7L9    7,9          Li9       7.9      7 9       7.24     7.9        7,
Investment Costs 1/           13.9       -       -        -       -        -        -     2.5      -         -        -        _         _         _       (1.7)
Operating Costs               1.1      2.3      3.0      3.8     3.8      3.8      3.8    3.8    3.8        3.8      3e8      3 8       3.8       3.8       3.8
Net Benefits                 (12.6)    2.4      3.3     4.1      4.1      4.1     4.1    1.6    4.1        4.1       4.1      4.1       4.1       4.1       5.8
Economic Rate of Return       27%
2. Shallow Tubewell
Benefits                       3.6      7.2     9.6    12.0    12.0    12.0.   12.0   12.0            12,0 12.0       2.0    1.        1   12 .0           12.0
Investment Costs 1/           13.4      -       -         -     -          -        -     3.5      -         -         -       -         -         -       (1.7)
Operating Costs                1.8      3.7     4.9      6.1     6.1      6.1      6.1    6.1    6.1        6.1      6.1      6.1       6.1       6.1       6.1
Net Benefits                 (11.6)    3.5    74.7       5.9     5.9      5.9     3-9    T        5.9       5.9      5.9      5.9       5.9       5.9       7.6
Economic Rate of Return       417.
3. PumPset - 1.2 ha
Benefits                       2.9     3.7      5.0      6.2     6.2      6.2      6.2    6.2
Investment Costs 1/            7.9      -        -        -       -        -        -    (3.1)
operating Costs                0.9     1.9      2.5      3.1      .1     3i              L
Net Benefits                  (6.9)    1.8      2.5      3.1     3.1      3.1     3.1    6.2
Economic Rate of Return       35%
4. Pumpset - 2.0 ha
Benefits                       2.1     4.2      5.6      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    7.0
Investment Costs 1/            7.9       -       -                -        -        -    (3.1)
Operating Costs                1.2     2.5      3.3      4.1     41       4J       L.I
Net Benefits                  (7.0)    1.7      2.3      2.9     2.9      2.9      2.9    6.0
Economic Rate of Return       32%
5. Land Development
Benefits                       2.3     4.5      6.0      7.5     7.5      7.5      7.5    7.5    7.5        7.5       7.5     7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5
Investment Costs               2.0                                             -        -        -        - _
Operating Costs                0.9     1.8      2.4      3.G              1, 35    3'.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0
Net Benefits                  (0.6)    2.7      3.6      4.5     4.5      4.3      4.5    4.5    4.5        4.5      4.5      4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5
Economic Rate of Return       Over 507.
6. Coconut
Benefits                       0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.9      1.4    1.9    2.4        2.7       3.0     3.2       3.5       3.5       3.5
Investmeat Costs               1.0      0.6     0.8      1.0     1.0      T.D      -       -      -          -        -        -         -         -        -
Operating Costs                0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      1.3    1.3    1.3        1.3       1.3      1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3
Ret Benefits                  (0.7)   (0.3)   (0-5)   (0.7)   (0.7)   (0.3)    0.1    0.6    1.1            1.4      1.7      1.9       2.2       2.2       2.2 2/
Economic Rate of Return       2.%
7. Dairy
Benefits                       3.5     7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0
Investment Costs               5.8      -        -        -     (1.1)
operating Costs                2.3     4.7      4.7      4.7     4.7
Net Benefits                  (4.6)    2.3      2.3      2.3     3.4
Economic Rate of Return        3997
8. Poultry
Benefits                        -     82.9    82.9    82.9    82.9    82.9    82 .9   82.9   82.9          82.9
Investment Costs              59.5       -       -        -        -      4.0       -      -       -      (20.0)
Operating Costs                 -     68.o    68.0    68.0    68.0    68.0    68.0   68.0   68.0          51.0
Net Benefits                 (59.5)   14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9   14.9   14.9          51.9
Economic Rate of Return       237.
9. Mechanized Fishing Vessel
Benefits                      44.4            111              11.      hIl
Investment Costs             132-.1                                                                                 52.0                                 (32.3)
Operating Costs       ?        4 a...4   _3_ 66. 36 66.3    66.3    66.3    66.3   66.3          66.3      .3        66.      .3
Net Benefits                (112.5)   44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8   44.8   44.8           44.8      (7.2)   44.8      44.8      44.8      77.1
Economic Rate of Return       397%
10. Mechanized Csaoe
Benefits                       L2I.      I 22  25.7    25.          72.  25.7    25,7   25.7   25.7        25.7
Investment Costs              29.4       -       -        -        -      4.8       -       -      -       (9.0)
Operating Costs               17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0   17.0   17.0           17.0
Net Benefits                 (23.2)    8.7      8.7      8.7      8.7     3.9      8.7    8.7    8.7       17.7
Economic Rate of Return       347.
1/ Include investment in electric connection.
2/ Years 15-25.
April 19, 1977                                                                                                                                                   177



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Sensitivity Tests
(%)
Official -
Best    Investment    Operating Costs         Benefits    Foreign Exchange
Yodel            Estimate  +10%  +15%        +10%   +15%         -10%  -15%           Rate
Dugwell and Pumpset         27      24    22          24     22           20    17            20
Shallow Tubewell            41      37    35          36     34           32    27            34
Pumpset 1.2 ha              35      31    29          30     28          26    22             24
Pumpset 2.0 ha              32      28    27          26      23          22    17            23
Land Development      Over 50        Over 50            Over 50            Over 50       Over 50
Coconut                     22      20    18          21     20          19    17             17
Dairy                       39      32    30          24     17          17      7            45
Poultry                     23      20    19          10       4           7     1            26
Mechanized Fishing
Vessel                     39      34    32          32     28           27    21             38
Mechanized Canoe            34      29    27          24      19          19    12             38
1/  US$ 1.00 = Rs 9.00, i.e. SCF = 1.0.
April 19, 1977
178



ANNEX 10
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Econoric Analysis
Financial and Economic Prices
Crops                       Financial Price                   Economic Price-
(Rs/ton)                         (Rs/ton)
Paddy                            1,100                             1,900
Wheat                            1,4oo                              2,200
Sorghum                          1,200                             1,900
Maize                            1,000                              1,500
Barley                           1,200                             1,900
Millet                            1,100                             1,900
Gram                             2,000                              3,190
Fodder                              74o                               740
Groundnut (unshelled)            1,600                             2,400
Sugarcane                          120                                250
Cotton                           3,600                              5,200
Potato                              500                               500
Coconut                            700                                600
Milk                             160(per liter)                   1.60(per liter)
Eggs                             0.32(per unit)                    0.32(per unit)
Fertilizer
N                              4,500                             5,800
P                              4,000                             5,100
K                              1,500                             2,100
1/ At a shadow exchange rate US$1.00 = Rs 12.00.
April 13, 1977
179



ANNEX 11
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements-/
IDA Fiscal Year                           Disbursement During   Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                    Quarter             End of Quarter
------------------- US $ M ------------------
1978
September 30, 1977
December 31, 1977                                  10.0                      10.0
March 31, 1978                                     20.0                      30.0
June 30, 1978                                      30.0                      60.0
1979
September 30, 1978                                 15.0                      75.0
December 31, 1978                                  20.0                      95.0
March 31,  1979                                    25.0                     120.0
June 30, 1979                                      35.0                     155.0
1980
September 30, 197>/                                25.0                     180.0
December 31, 1979-                                 20.0                     200.0
l Estimated date of effectiveness: August 31, 1977
2/ Estimated closing date: December 31, 1979
180



ANNEX 12
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Project Lending Program
(Rs M)
FY 78     FY 79      Total
ARDC loans/debentures to participating banks           2,600     2,850      5,450
Less program financed exclusively by ARDCL1/                            1,110
Balance ARDC program after deductions                                       4,340
ARDC commitment of IDA funds for on-going IDA
projects                                                                   1,055
Balance of program eligible to be financed
by IDA                                                                 3,285
IDA contribution                                                        1,791
IDA contribution in US$ million                                           199
IDA contribution as percentage of eligible program                         55
1/ Mainly energization of pumpsets, tractors, forestry, markets and storage.
April 20, 1977
181



INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFIN6NCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC Total Estimated Disbor.eents 1977/78 nd 1978/79
(R. M)
Minor               Land                  Far              plUntstion/        Poultry/                                Dairy                Storaga/
Irrigation          Developrent        Mechani-tion_       Hortirlt-re         Sheep-Breeding     Fisheries           Develop=ent          Harket Yards       Others                Total             7.
Stnte                   77/78    78/79     77/78     78/79      77/78     78/79     77/78     78/79     77/78     78/79     77/78     78/78     77/78     78/79     77/78     78/79     77/78     78/79     77/78     78/79
Assao /                  28.0      41.5      0.5       1.0       0.5       0.5      25.0      25.0       1.2       2.0       0.5       0.5       1.0       1.5       1.0       1.0        -         _        58.0      73.0
Bihar~                 200.0    225,0        5.0      7.5        5.0       5.0       0.5       0.5        -         -        1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0      48.5      35.0        _         _       261.0     275.0
Orics-1/                139.0     175.0      5.0       7.5       1.0       2.0       2.0       2.0        -         -        4.0       5.0        -         -        1.0       1.0        _         _       152.0    192.5
West B.ngl-             71.0      80.0      1.0       1.0       5.0       5.0       2.0       2.0       0.5       0.5       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.5       3.0       3.0      2.5       3.0        87.0      97.0    22
2/
Hicachal Pradesh          1.0       1.5       -         _         _         -       20.0      10.0       0.5       0.5        -         -        0.5       0.5       _         -          _         -        22.0     12.5
.Iaprm  & lCa,hciriZ/     0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5        5.0       5.0       0.5       0.50-               0.5       R.        0.5       0.5       0.5                            8.8      8.5
R.j.sthan_/             6E.o       65.0      25.0    25.0       12.5      12.5       0.5       0.5       1.5       1.5                  -       56.0      32.5       5.0       5.0                          165.5      12.0      7
Andhr. Prdooh           145.0     150.0      15.0    15.0        5.0       5.0       2.0       2.0       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       5.0       5.0       1.0       1.0        _         _        178.0    183.0
eJat                   50.0      50.0       2.5      2.5      10.0      10.0        -         -         -         -       10.0      10.0       2.5       2.5       1.5       1.5        _         _        76.5      76.5
uar.a                   80.0      80 0       15.0     15.0      13.0       5.0       0.5       0.5       1.0       1.0        -         -        3.0       3.0       2.5       2.5        _      80.0       115.0      187.0
terntohak               142.5     165.0       6.0      7.5       5.0       5.0      15.0      15.0       1.0       1.0       2.5       2.5      43.0      45.0      13.0      18.0      2.0        3.0       230.0    262.0
Kerala                   22.5      22.5       5.0      7.5       2.0       2.0      26.0      27.5       0.5       0.5       3.0       3.0       1.5       2.0       -         -        1.0        1.0       61.5      66.0
Madhya Pradesh          240.0    240.0        7.5      7.5      12.5      12.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5        -         -       33.0      30.0       2.0       2.0       2.5       2.5       298.5    295.5
M.hare-htrs             202.5    222.0       52.0    80.0       20.0      22.0       5.0       5.0       2.5       4.0       2.5       4.0      25.0      30.0      10.0      10.0        -         -        319.5    377.0
Puojab                   56.0      70.0      12.0     15,0      50.0      15.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0        -         -        3.0       2.5       4.0       5.0        -      2OL0        127.0    129.5
Tamil Nad.               50.0      50.0       2.0      2.5       5.0       5.0       9.0      10.0       2.5       2.5      10.0      10.0       2.5       2.5       1,5       1.5        _         _        82.5       84.0
Utter Pr-desh           269.0    290.0       12.5    12.5       30.0      30.0       3.0       3.5       1.0       1.0        -         -        5.0       5.0       2.0       2.0        -          -       322.5    344.0
Others                    9.0      15.0       -        -         2.5       2.5      10.5      12.5       6.0       6.5       4.0       5.0       3.0       3.0       0.5       0.5         -         -        35.5      45.0
1,771.0   1,943.0     166.5   207.5    179.5    139.5    127.5    122.5           23.0      25.5      41.0      45.0    186.5    168.0        97.0      89.5      8.0      109.5    2,600.0   2,850.0
~1_171 .0     - _ _ 166.5__----          179.5      _        127.5                23.0                41.0               186.5                97.0                 8.0               2.6Q0.0
3,714.0              374.0               319.0               250.0                48.5                86.0               354.5                186.5              117.5               5.450.0-/
%                           68                  7                   6                   5                   1                   1                   6                    3                  3                   100      100
1/ Lea, developed north eastern states.
2/ Other les developed statec.
3/ This is the total projected ADC di.bhr-am-nt (inc.lding ARDC-II).
Septenber 30, 1976.



ANNEX 12
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Indicative Cost Estimates
(Rs M)
I.  Minor Irrigation                        Local        Foreign        Total
Minor Irrigation
Dugwells                            l,548.o         211.0        1,759.0
Pumpsets                               417.0         57.0          474.0o
Shallow Tubewells                      572.0         78.0          650.0
Lift Irrigation                        127.0         17.0          144.0
Deep Tubewells                          78.0         11.0           89.0
Electrical Connettions                 484.o         66.0          550.0
Miscellaneous Works 1/                 120.0         16.0          136.o
Sub-total                          3,346.o        456.o        3,802.0
Land Development
Land Leveling                          116.0          7.0          123.0
Land Reclamation                         6.o           -             6.0
Sub-total                           122.0           7.0          129.0
Sub-total Minor Irrigation         3,468.0        463.0        3,931.0
II. Diversified Lending
Plantation and Horticulture            242.0         27.0          269.0
Dairy                                  216.0         24.o          240.0
Poultry and Sheep                      130.0         14.0          144.0
Fisheries                               90.0         10.0          100.0
Farm Mechanization                     322.0        107.0          429.0
Other 2/                               10)4.0        12.0          116.0
Sub-total Diversified Lending     1,104.0         194.0        1,298.0
III.  Training                                  18.o          -             18.0
Total Project Cost                   4,590.0        657.0        5,247.0
1/  Sprinklers, water management works, lining of water courses, masonary wells,
repairs to old wells, filter points, lifting devices.
2/ Markets, storage, agro-service centers, etc.
April 22, 1977
183



-                                                                                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD 12630
"           §   ._   _ k        ;t.r'                              80                                                            INDIA                                               FEBRUARY 1977
/>  r,r         k.                                      Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project
GENERALIZED OCCURRENCE OF GROUNDWATER, RAINFALL AND EVAPORATION
AFGHANISTAN    )
$   <->       Aereocenore come-hrfe inre                     L arge to moderate we I yields
/                                       2                                         : s  . :: . ... /  *=   Al svlum of major river vrl eys and coaste areas
j' .J,iAMM,V  ced KAS M/1/    g                                                     eMaderate well yields:
5  ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ...1-SHI                                           Canso iduled sedimeots Csandsmore, etc)
1- ,-                                                                                                               !8 9 , ',' S u ' i. Pee r   Fennsular hard roks (groranite, schist, etc.)
I         Deccan ircp (basait and related voIcan cs)
f .                                                                   I LL: /~ ....... . > * . Th n a lWviua and dune scnd af desert cres
('           ,           -              .v                                                                       [T 2!; ;. -  ,    w i   SEJ TITM  Mountcaious  wreas
v        A      cciRFir-elnin'.                                                --     Anrua rainfall nm millimeters
S      PRA flESH                                                        -       Annual evaporiatimon cenlinviers
~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                       0~~~~~  R D C Regiasal OfRises
PAKISTAN                         r                                                                               - --      State ond Uion Territory boundcries
C0-;AN  -Gt DCUH//NSAbi<ARE; E2   S                                                     oInternctiona  bounceries
*Cw- --                             Ej-\                                                                                                                                  \9='A5  -¾  'gu \ .  :0
'- ~            ~~ ~ G<,                             ,vvH DELH  'S 
10    ~                                                OJAIRUR                    WCKNrAS    'K-  JIR
K '.-                                           A,-.                                                                 AND
9'               ~~~NA
HMA  BAD                                       OPAL
-~I                                         Mp                                                         
CCAP                                             5A0' -,r,                                                                                 73''~-    EGA 
,rMAHr4RArr~T0
-20'
MA AR9ASHTR                      \y >                     V<"
PRABA             A
Ny  c          I                                t~~~~\SI   L NK
'F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                   C           0
*'~~~~~r~~~~~-' ~~~~~  A,NDH/t4  P ~    ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     MLE
N    PRAD S/f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  10    -3O   9   0
GC j                                                                                                                       KILOMETER
7~~~~~0KRI AAA    



