Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19029
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (EMTAL)
(LOAN 3610 - PE)
March 11, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 15, 1999
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (SI.)
US$1=S/3.27
S/ 1=US$0.31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
COES         Committee for Economic (Electricity) System Operation
CONERG    National Energy Council
CTE         Electricity Tariff Commission
DGAA         General Environmental Affairs Directorate
DGE          General Electricity Directorate
DGH          General Hydrocarbons Directorate
DGM          General Mining Directorate
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IM          International Monetary Fund
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEM          Ministry of Energy and Mines
OS1NERG    Control and Supervision Agency for Energy
SICN        Interconnected Central-Northern Electricity System
SOEs         State-owned Enterprises
UINDP        United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
Vice-President:           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:        Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:         Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:             Joerg Uwe Richter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ......................................................1
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ...........................................2........                                       2
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background .............................................  ...... 7
Project Objectives and Scope ...................                  .......................... 8
Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................  ...... 8
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .......... ..... 12
Project Costs and Financing ...................................................  .   13
Project Risk Evaluation ..............................................                 .....  .   13
Project Sustainability ...................................................  .   13
Bank Performance .............................................                                     14
Borrower/ Implementing Agency Performance ...............................  .....15
Assessment of Project Outcome .............................................                    .....16
Future Operations                      ...................................  .....16
Project Operational Plan                     ....................................16
Key Lessons Learned                       .................................   ....17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..........................................   .... 18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans - Preceding Loans                       .         ...............   ....19
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................... ............................   .... 19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated, and Actual        .                         ... 19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .                          .20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                                .          .             20
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ......................................  .... 21
Table 8A: Project Costs    ...........................                  ...................  --22
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................................................  ... 22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................  .... 23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................  ... 23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                               . .  25
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................  .... 25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions    .                               .26
APPENDICES
A. Summary of Loan Objectives and Achievements ........................  ....27
B. ICR  Mission Aide-Memoire .................................................... 28
C. Project Review  from  Borrower's Perspective .............................. .... 32
D. Proposed Operational Plan .................................................. .. 37
Map
IBRD No. 26572R - Peru General Country Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (EMTAL)
(LOAN No. 3610-PE)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) deals with the Energy and
Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL) to Peru, for which Loan 3610-PE in
the amount of US$11.8 million was approved on June 1, 1993 and made effective on
December 2, 1993.
Following two extensions (December 31, 1997 for six months and June 30,
1998 for three months), the Loan was closed on September 30, 1998. It was 91%
disbursed. The last disbursement took place on December 22, 1998, at which time a
balance of US$1. lmn was cancelled. Cofinancing was provided through PHRD
Grant No. TF 022474.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Joerg-Uwe Richter of the Finance, Private
Sector, and Infrastructure Department of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office (LCSFP) and Fernando Lecaros (Consultant). The Report was reviewed by
Mmes/Messrs. Susan G. Goldmark, Maria-Victoria Lister (LCSFP), Chakib Khelil
(EMTOG) and Leopoldo Maraboli (EMTIM). The Report is based, inter alia, on the
Memorandum of the President; reports of the Borrower's Project Coordinating Unit;
supervision mission reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower's
implementing agency; Bank internal memoranda; Borrower's progress reports; and
discussions between the Borrower and Bank staff. Preparation of the ICR began
during the Bank's project completion mission during January 12-22, 1999. The
Borrower contributed to this ICR by preparing an evaluation of the Project's
implementation and results (Appendix C) and by commenting on the Bank's draft
ICR. The Resident Office of the United Nations Development Program, which was
in charge of the financial administration of the Loan, is in agreement with the
conclusions and recommendations of this Report.



2
PERU
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (EMTAL)
(LOAN No. 3610-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Upon assuming office in 1990, the Fujimori Government faced a social and
economic crisis of huge dimensions. Two-thirds of external debt was in arrears and
Peru was in default to the IMF, World Bank, and Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB). State-owned enterprises (SOEs) had become increasingly inefficient, loss-
making, and politicized, and government controls kept their prices at uneconomic
levels. Their inability to invest in infrastructure was a serious obstacle to economic
development. The Government launched comprehensive stabilization measures,
followed by a liberalization and structural reform program which was based on
policies and legal/regulatory/institutional reforms aimed at arms-length regulation,
demonopolization and competition, and maximum feasible private participation. New
laws and regulations were enacted; autonomous regulatory entities were created; and
new tariff systems to cover economic costs were introduced, complemented by
initiatives to create and modernize antitrust and labor legislation. The Government
expanded this program to include privatization of most SOEs, recognizing that Peru
lacked the means to bring the enterprises up to required standards.
2.    The Bank, IMF, and IDB developed a joint strategy to enable Peru to clear
arrears and regain access to international capital markets. The Bank approved five
adjustment loans during 1992-94. The Privatization Adjustment Loan (PAL) and
Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan (EPAL) were conditioned on ambitious
sector reforms, with privatization of SOEs a central element.
Project Objectives and Scope
3.    The Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL) was aimed at
supporting and reinforcing the Government's reform and privatization objectives in
the sectors. This was to be achieved through assisting the (a) implementation of the
relevant sector strategies and policies, (b) completion of the legal/regulatory reforms
including environmental regulation, and (c) institution building at the Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM; the beneficiary of the Loan) and the associated entities to
regulate and monitor the sector enterprises. These aims were consistent with
requirements for sustainable sector development and had strong government support.
The Project incorporated components (a) for overall energy, to prepare an integrated
sector strategy and support MEM' s National Energy Council CONERG; (b) for
electricity, to complete the regulatory framework and apply reforms at the enterprise
level, design an energy management system for the North-Central Interconnected
System (SICN), strengthen MEM's General Electricity Directorate (DGE) and the
Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE), and apply the new tariff system; (c) for
hydrocarbons, to complete the legal! regulatory framework, strengthen MEM's
General Hydrocarbons Directorate (DGH) and promote exploration and field
development through establishing PeruPetro and a modern data bank; (d) for mining,
to develop and implement a promotion program, create an information system at
MEM's General Mining Directorate (DGM), develop and implement a new
cadastral/concession system, and reform procedures to process mining concessions;



3
and (e) for environmental management, to formulate and implement policies,
strengthen MEM's General Environmental Affairs Directorate (DGAA), prepare
environmental mitigation measures in the energy and mining sectors, and carry out
sectoral assessment studies.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    The Project's overall objectives were achieved including
(a) Demonopolization and privatization of SOEs: The bulk of electricity
generation and distribution now is carried out by private companies; PeruPetro is
actively promoting, negotiating, and awarding exploration and development licenses;
PetroPeru no longer has quasi-monopoly status; large-scale mining activities have
largely been privatized, and mining expansion now is private-enterprise driven;
(b) Regulatory reform, including environmental regulation: The concept of
autonomous regulatory entities and regulated operators has been accepted by the
Government and the general public; the Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE) -
charged with regulating electricity prices - and OSINERG - monitored by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and charged with enforcing compliance by
enterprises with operative rules - adequately meet their responsibilities;
(c) Strengthening of MEM and of related institutions to regulate and monitor
sector enterprises: The Directorates have been reorganized and been assigned clearly
defined normative functions; information systems have been modernized and allow
ready access to data required for discharging their functions; and fees collected from
sector enterprises ensure more adequate revenues for MIEM.
5.    Among the Project's individual components, the energy strategy evaluation
was not completed, mainly due to lack of consensus on a methodology consistent
with the sector's market-based paradigm. For electricity, the legal/regulatory and
institutional framework was strengthened, strategies to implement reforms were
designed, an efficient corporate structure at the enterprise level was created, and
guidelines for contracts were developed. For hydrocarbons, regulations attendant
to the Basic Hydrocarbons Law were prepared, PeruPetro was created and a data
bank established, and DGH was strengthened to carry out its normative functions.
For mining, an investment promotion program was prepared and implemented, a
comprehensive information system and a Public Mining Registry were established,
problems faced by small-scale and artisanal mines were analyzed, and the backlog of
mining requests was considerably reduced. For environmental management, policy
formulation and implementation were improved, guidelines and norms were prepared
and disseminated, permissible emission levels were determined, regional
environmental assessments were initiated, and DGAA was considerably strengthened
so that its activities now are considered exemplary for the public administration at
large. Contamination levels in mining were reduced, and the larger enterprises
committed themselves to large-scale investment in pollution abatement.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.    Implementation was facilitated by strong government commitment and
effective implementing agencies, delays in project initiation notwithstanding. The



4
November 1995 mid-term review concluded that the Project was progressing well
and was being executed within budget, but there were. concerns about the lack of
improvement in MEM's staff capabilities and the use of consultants to carry out staff
functions. As follow-up to the review, the role of the Project Coordinating Unit was
enhanced and increased emphasis was given to small-scale and subsistence artisanal
mining, resulting in budgetary shifts in favor of these components. By the envisaged
loan closing date of December 31, 1997, the project components subject to specific
targets (e.g., regulations which need to be issued within a certain period after
enactment of the underlying law) were completed but regional environmental
assessments of mining activities experienced delays which necessitated two closing
date extensions of the Loan to September 30, 1998.
Project Costs and Financing
7.    By loan closure, project expenditure totaled US$15.1mn and loan
disbursements, US$10.7mn, both equivalent to 91% of budget. Two PHRD grants
for energy and for mining-related environmental activities totaling approximately
US$4mn equivalent were fully disbursed. The breakdown between foreign and local
costs reflects the type of currency disbursed but not necessarily the source of goods
and services, as many contracts for local personnel were denominated and paid in
foreign currency.
Project Risk Evaluation
8.    At appraisal, risks were assumed to be related to congressional and popular
support, the public administration's implementation capacity, and physical security in
the country. Unlike the two former risks, weaknesses at the public administration
were not resolved and were not sufficiently taken into account when the project
timetable was established. In particular, mining and environmental components
required a considerable build-up of expertise as well as extensions of their
implementation schedule.
Project Sustainability
9.    Project achievements are likely to be sustainable as the Government is
committed to maintaining the key enabling conditions. These comprise: in
electricity, ensure CTE's full autonomy and provide DGE with competent staff, in
hydrocarbons, strengthen DGH's regulatory functions in downstream activities
including for natural gas; in mining, strengthen the focus on artisanal mining and on
social-environmental issues, further improve the legal/regulatory/institutional
framework and fiscal regime to ensure international competitiveness, and avoid a new
buildup of unprocessed petitions; and in environment, prepare and implement pilot
projects to apply the results from past activities. In all areas, preserving adequate
financial resources will be essential to sustainability.
Bank Performance
10.   The Bank responded expeditiously to sector requirements as the Project was
initiated at a critical moment of the reform effort. The Project was based on a
comprehensive analysis of the rehabilitation and reform requirements in energy and



5
mining, and its concept was appropriate. Staff contributions to project preparation
and implementation were fully recognized by the Government. However, supervision
which was intensive at project initiation subsequently slackened, coinciding with
frequent changes in task managership in the wake of internal Bank reorganizations.
Borrower/ Implementing Agency Performance
11.    After initial delays, the Borrower implemented the Project largely on time
and on budget. The Coordinating Unit provided effective support to MEM's
Directorates in charge of the Project's individual sector components. Annual
implementation plans were drawn up and were adjusted semi-annually. MEM' s
Directorates were instrumental in implementing the Government's sector strategies,
through measures that often were far-reaching and difficult. UNDP's Lima Office
played an important role in administering project funding, which provided
transparency and avoided possible implementation delays due to temporary lack of
counterpart funds. Loan disbursements until FY96 run ahead of schedule but
afterwards fell behind schedule when difficult and untried tasks had to be tackled.
Assessment of Project Outcome
12.    The outcome is rated "Satisfactory" for preparation, appraisal, and
implementation, both for Bank and Borrower. The major project objectives were
achieved and overall progress was smooth. The Project's success was acknowledged
by the Government, in particular the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Future Operations
13.   A CIDA grant for technical assistance in mining and environmental matters
will address some of the needs for follow-up to EMTAL. The Bank is supporting the
preparation of a rural electrification strategy, as a basis for possible future lending.
No other Bank operations are currently implemented or planned.
Project Operational Plan
14.   MEM is in the process of preparing an operational plan, which would include
the principal activities to maintain and complement EMTAL's achievements, i.e.:
completion of regulations for electricity, hydrocarbons including natural gas, and
mining, especially for health and safety; continued institutional strengthening at
MEM, OSINERG, and PeruPetro; demonstration projects for environmental
rehabilitation; and dissemination of environmentally sustainable operational practices
to small-scale and artisanal miners.
Key Lessons Learned
15.   For technical assistance aimed at sector reforms to succeed, (a) strong
government support and consistency of project objectives with overall development
requirements are critical; (b) continuity of project direction and management needs to
be ensured; (c), project coordination and implementation units need to be carefully
staffed, with emphasis on sectoral experience and networking skills; (d) favorable
macroeconomic conditions are important; and (e) the use of UNDP or other local
offices as disbursement agent helps to avoid bureaucratic delays in making project
funds available. On the other hand, EMTAL's shortcomings emphasize the need to



6
(a) avoid or at least limit the multiplicity of objectives and activities, design the
project concept as firmly as feasible at appraisal, and ensure that loan covenants are
enforceable; (b) make appropriate arrangements for enhanced monitoring of complex
projects, including adequate resources for supervision; and (c) restrict labor-intensive
and less effective types of contracting (e.g., use of individual consultants).



7
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I:?          PERU
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (EMTAL)
(LOAN No. 3610-PE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    On assuming office in 1990, the Fujimori Government faced a social and
economic crisis of enormous proportions. Per-capita income had declined to the
levels of the early 1960s; 75% of the labor force in Lima was unemployed or
underemployed; real wages had fallen by 60% over five years; and inflation had
reached 36,000% on an annualized rate. Two-thirds of the external debt totaling
US$22bn was in arrears. Peru was in default to the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), the World Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). State-
owned enterprises (SOEs) were a major contributing factor to the economic decline,
as they had become increasingly inefficient and politicized, hampered by government
controls which kept prices of their outputs at unrealistically low levels. As a group,
SOEs by 1990 were losing US$2.5mn/year, much of which had to be covered by the
Budget. Their inability to invest in basic infrastructure was a serious obstacle to
economic development.
2.    The Government launched strong and comprehensive stabilization measures
to reverse the country's decline, which comprised fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate
policies and which dramatically lowered inflation. In parallel, a liberalization and
structural reform program was introduced, initially emphasizing trade liberalization
and financial sector reform but quickly spreading to sector reforms in energy and
infrastructure, industry and mining, agriculture, and social services. This effort was
based on new policies and legal/regulatory/institutional reforms to promote
competition and facilitate private investment.
3 .    Subsequently, the Government expanded the reform program to include the
privatization of most SOEs, to be completed by 1995, recognizing that Peru lacked
the means to make the necessary investments to bring SOEs up to required standards.
The "Law for Promotion of Private Investment in State Enterprises" (Legislative
Decree 674 of September 1991) established the necessary framework, by creating the
Minister-level Committee for Private Sector Investment (COPRI) as privatization
agency, to be complemented by Special Privatization Committees (CEPRIs) in charge
of individual sectors and/or enterprises to be privatized. In parallel, the Government
undertook major legal/regulatory/institutional reforms of the sectors dominated by
SOEs, aimed at deregulation or arms-length regulation, demonopolization and
competition, and maximum feasible participation by private enterprise. New laws and
attendant regulations were enacted for telecommunications, electricity, hydrocarbons,
and mining; autonomous regulatory entities were created; and new tariff systems
ensuring coverage of economic costs were introduced. The sector reforms were
complemented by economy-wide initiatives to create and modernize antitrust and
labor legislation.
4.    In support of the Government's reform agenda, the Bank, 1MF, and IDB
developed a joint strategy to enable Peru to clear its arrears with them and to regain



8
access to international capital markets. The Bank during 1992-94 approved five
adjustment loans, two of which were disbursed in single tranches in March 1993.
The Privatization Adjustment Loan (PAL) and Electricity Privatization Adjustment
Loan (EPAL) were conditioned on ambitious sector reforms, with privatization of
SOEs a central element. The Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan
(EMTAL), whose beneficiary was the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), was
designed to reinforce the sector reform measures pursued through PAL and EPAL.
Project Objectives and Scope
5.    The project funded through EMTAL was aimed to support the Government's
reform and privatization objectives in energy and mining, through assisting the
Government in the (a) implementation of sector strategies and policies, especially
demonopolization and privatization of SOEs; (b) completion of legal/regulatory
reforms in the energy and mining sectors, including environmental regulation; and (c)
institution building at MEM and the autonomous entities to regulate and monitor
sector operations. These objectives were consistent with requirements for
sustainable development of the sectors. They were strongly supported by the
Government and thus, were considered attainable within the Project's envisaged
implementation period (1993-97).
6.    The Project consisted of the following components:
(a)  Overall energy sector: (i) preparation of an integrated sector strategy, and (ii)
strengthening of MEM's National Energy Council (CONERG);
(b)  Electricity: (i) completion of the regulatory framework and application of
reforms at the enterprise level; (ii) design of an energy management system for
the North-Central Interconnected System (SICN); (iii) strengthening of MEM's
General Electricity Directorate (DGE); and (iv) strengthening of the Electricity
Tariff Commission (CTE) and application of the new tariff system;
(c)  Hydrocarbons: (i) completion of the regulatory framework; (ii) strengthening of
MEM's General Hydrocarbons Directorate (DGH); and (iii) promotion of
exploration and field development, through establishing PeruPetro as
decentralized public entity and creating a modern data bank within PeruPetro;
(d) Mining: (i) development and implementation of a promotion program; (ii)
creation of a modern information system at MEM's General Mining Directorate
(DGM); (iii) implementation of a new cadastral/ concession system through the
Public Mining Registry; and (iv) reform of procedures to process mining
concessions; and
(e)  Environmental management: (i) policy formulation and implementation; (ii)
strengthening of MEM's General Environmental Affairs Directorate (DGAA);
(iii) environmental mitigation in the energy and mining sectors; and (iv) sectoral
assessment studies.
Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The multiplicity of project objectives and the large number of institutions
involved in execution made the Project a complex undertaking to coordinate. The



9
clarity of objectives differed among project components, which would eventually be
reflected in different degrees of achieving the corresponding objectives.
8.    Overall Objectives. These were achieved, as evidenced by:
(a) Demonopolization and privatization of SOEs:
*  Electricity sector development now is driven by private investors and
operators: twenty private companies are generating electricity for public
supply, and most consumers are supplied by private distributors;
*  PeruPetro was created as the Government's promoting and negotiating
entity in the hydrocarbons sector;
•  PetroPeru no longer has quasi-monopoly status as more than 50 contracts
for exploration and development have been awarded by PeruPetro to
other companies; and
*  The new legal/regulatory/institutional framework for mining facilitated the
privatization of large state-owned enterprises, and expansion now is
private-enterprise driven. Nearly US$8bn have been committed by
private companies to develop new production and expand existing mines.
(b)   Regulatory reform of the energy and mining sectors, including
environmental regulation:
3 The Government and the general public have accepted the concept of
autonomous regulatory entities and regulated operators, including
concepts of stable rules and non-discrimination ("level playing field") in
market regulation and financial autonomy of the regulatory entities;
*  The Electricity Tariff Comnmiission (CTE) has developed competence in
regulating electricity prices; and
*  The state's role in enforcing compliance by regulated enterprises both
public and private with operative rules (service reliability and availability;
pricing; environmental compliance) has been entrusted to OSINERG, an
entity monitored by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).
(c)   Strengthening of MEM and of related institutions to regulate and
monitor the sector enterprises:
* MEM' s General Directorates have been reorganized and have been
assigned well-defined normative functions;
* MEM's information systems have been modernized and allow ready
access to data required for discharging the Ministry's functions.
9.    Individual Project Components. The following results were achieved:



10
(a)   Energy strategy evaluation: This project component was not completed,
despite extensive efforts by the Bank to reach consensus on a methodological
approach consistent with the new, market-based paradigm for the sector. Results of
two preliminary studies financed through EMTAL were not considered satisfactory,
causing the Government to give this component relatively less priority. CONERG -
the component's intended beneficiary - was abolished in 1994.
(b)   Electricity: The legaVregulatory/institutional framework was strengthened,
as evidenced by the following results:
*  Strategies to implement sector reforms were designed;
*  An efficient corporate structure for the enterprises was created, through
(i) setting up autonomous generation, transmission, and distribution
companies within SICN, the southern systems, and Ucayali; (ii)
development of norms and procedures for asset transfer between existing
enterprises and the new companies as well as of complementary norms to
apply the Electricity Concessions Law; (iii) support for preparing
guidelines for contracts between generation and distribution companies;
*  The Committee for Economic System Operation (COES) for SICN was
created, including specifications for the acquisition of the LAN/WAN
networks for interconnecting the COES, ElectroPeru, and ElectroLima
systems before the latter's privatization;
-  DGE was strengthend through specialized consulting services for (i)
completing the concessioning and registration process, consistent with the
regime for setting up corporate units established in the Electricity Law;
(ii) legalizing existing rights of way, water rights, and property rights, and
establishing a registration system, to provide greater legal assurances to
new investors; (iii) preparing indicative plans which outline least-cost
investments in electricity generation and transmission; (iv) investment
promotion through specialized publications; (v) preparing and
implementing energy savings programs, in coordination with the Ministry
of Education; (v) updating the Electricity Code with emphasis on safety
matters (initially supported through EMTAL, now being finalized with
DGE funds); and (vii) implementing an information system including
design and equipment specifications.
*  Strengthening of CTE: The preparation of the 1993 electricity tariff study
- as basis for tariff reform - was supported by PHRD funds. CTE funded
subsequent studies through own resources, including the development of
methodologies for implementing tariff-related stipulations of the
Electricity Law (i.e., related to marginal generation costs, transmission
and node prices, and regulated distribution margins);
*  Tariff implementation: In accordance with the Law, transmission charges,
node prices, and retail tariffs have been regularly adjusted since November
1993. The basic retail tariff components were recalculated in October



11
1997 and established for a new four-year period. Average prices, around
6US¢/kWh in 1992, reached 8-9US¢/kWh in 1995-97. (They were
lowered in 1998 to reflect declining fuel prices.)
(c)   Hydrocarbons: Transforming this sector, which had been organized around
an integrated state monopoly, required far-reaching and difficult political decisions.
Results were as follows:
*  Regulations attendant to the Basic Hydrocarbons Law have been prepared
(the Law was enacted before the Project was initiated);
*  PetroPeru was supported through EMTAL-funded consulting services to
be able to promote exploration and field development, as well as negotiate
and award contracts for exploration and development licenses;
*  A data bank within PeruPetro was established, incorporating a large
volume of data (geological, seismic) through digitalization, scanning and
storage, so as to provide investors with timely information required for
bidding processes. PeruPetro now sells the information, which investors
can inspect and choose before tendering; and
*  DGH was strengthened to carry out its normative functions, prepare
indicative plans (including reserve estimations), compile industry data, and
award concessions to downstream operators. Consulting services were
provided to establish an information system, execute an organization
study, and implement the reserve estimation process.
(d)   Mining: Support to mining was given high priority due to the sector's key
importance to the Peruvian economy, private enterprise predominance, and severely
adverse environmental impacts of mining operations. Project achievements were:
- Promotion of mining activities, through dissemination of information
required to increase productivity and reduce health and safety hazards;
D Establishment of an information system to complement the promotion
component with a database consisting of geological and mining
information and the newly prepared Peruvian Mining Atlas;
*  Analysis of specific problems faced by small-scale and artisanal miners,
particularly gold miners;
* Establishment of a Public Mining Registry, and reduction of unresolved
mining claims through (i) supporting a team of lawyers and engineers to
reduce the backlog of about 23,000 applications to around 2,000 complex
cases (which currently are being analyzed), thus increasing the area under
valid concessions from 2.5mn ha to 20mn ha; and (ii) designing and
implementing a computerized cadastral/ concession system to
expeditiously address new mining requests.
(e)   Environment: Pollution from energy and mining activities is recognized as a
major national problem. There is also concern about localized air, soil, and water
contamination. The Project has contributed to:



12
*  Policy formulation and implementation: guidelines for environmental
protection were prepared and disseminated; permissible emission levels
were determined for the mining, hydrocarbons, and electricity sectors; and
a summary of environmental norms was published. Contamination levels
in mining were reduced by 15-20% during 1996-98 and the larger
enterprises committed themselves to invest through 2006 US$1bn in
pollution abatement.
* Regional environmental assessments: Problems in ten sensitive areas were
evaluated, especially those associated with informal mining (which also
permitted establishing an inventory of abandoned/inactive mines). An air
quality monitoring program was put in place for areas where mining and
metal refining activities predominate, with a view to setting permissible
emission levels and assessing the capabilities of pollution-analysis
laboratories in the process. A limnological study of lakes in mining areas
was undertaken; and
* Institutional strengthening of DGAA: A management information system
based on environmental data was established. A quality control system
was created to assure consistency and credibility of environmental
assessments. Communications/public relations efforts on environmental
issues including through dissemination of guidelines and other technical
information were supported. DGAA's environmental management now is
considered exemplary for the public administration at large.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.   Project implementation was satisfactory, facilitated by the relevance of the
objectives to development requirements and the Government's conunitment to these
objectives as well as the Project's timeliness. In addition, the effectiveness of the
Project Coordinating Unit, the sector agencies, and UNDP's Lima Office (which was
in charge of financial administration) ensured expeditious response to immediate
requirements.
11.   The November 1995 mid-term review concluded that notwithstanding some
initial delays, project implementation was progressing on schedule and on budget.
Concerns centered on human resources, in particular the lack of experienced high and
medium level staff at MEM to buttress the institution's policy-making role, and the
use of project funds to hire local consultants who would essentially fill staff positions,
expecting that this practice would be discontinued once salaries for MEM staff were
raised. In response to early implementation results, minor adjustments to the project
concept and the allocation of funds were undertaken, , i.e.:
* The role of the Project Coordinating Unit was broadened to include
project promotion and implementation support to the sector units. The
Unit's budget allocation was increased from US$0.24mn to US$1mn (the
budgets for other project entities were correspondingly reduced,
especially for components that were shifted to the Coordination Unit);
* Subsistence mining was given stronger focus, the need for which had
become obvious during earlier phases of the Project. The cadastralV



13
concession component, originally conceived for record computerization
only, was extended to address backlog problems.
12.   By the envisaged closing date for EMTAL (December 31, 1997), the
components subject to committed schedules were completed (e.g., regulations for
hydrocarbons and electricity which needed to be prepared within a given period
following the enactment of the underlying laws). But other components whose
schedules were less clear-cut (e.g., regional environmental assessments for mining
activities) experienced delays which eventually required two closing date extensions
for the loan to September 30, 1998.
Project Costs and Financing
13.   By loan closure on September 30, 1998, total project expenditure amounted
to US$15.lmn, equivalent to 91% of total budget (US$16.5mn). By the same date,
US$10.7mn of EMTAL funds had been disbursed, 91% of the budgeted total and
financing 64% of project costs. The PHRD grants (Y94.5mn for the energy sector
and Y275mn for mining-related environmental problems, equivalent to approximately
US$4mn) were fully disbursed. The largest variance between estimated and actual
costs occurred for the Coordinating Unit which assumed major responsibilities not
envisaged at project appraisal. The breakdown between local and foreign costs
reflects the currency in which disbursements took place, but not necessarily the
source of goods and services for the Project, as many contracts for local personnel
were denominated and paid in foreign currency.
Project Risk Evaluation
14.   At appraisal, risks were assumed to be related to (i) obstacles resulting from
the lack of congressional and popular support; (ii) the capacity of public
administration to prepare and implement reforms and attendant projects, and (iii) the
outcome of efforts to reestablish physical security in the country. Congressional and
popular opposition did not materialize and the security situation improved, thereby
facilitating the access to international consulting expertise without the impediments
posed by terrorist activity. However, weaknesses at the public administration
persisted and adversely affected progress of those components where no prior work
had been carried out. Thus, while regulatory work in electricity and hydrocarbons
made rapid progress, the Project's mining and environmental components had a slow
start as they required a considerable build-up of expertise and needed to be modified
in the course of implementation.
Project Sustainability
15.   Project achievements are likely to be sustainable provided that action in key
areas is maintained, to be addressed by MEM's operational plan under preparation:
(a)   Electricity: Critical functions, such as tariff regulation and enforcement of
service quality have been transferred to CTE and OSINERG, respectively. These
entities receive earmarked resources from the regulated enterprises of the sector,
which ought to be sufficient for meeting their responsibilities. But for CTE to retain
credibility, its autonomy including financial autonomy needs to be fully maintained.
There is concern that, now being affiliated to MEF instead of MEM, CTE's decisions



14
may be unduly influenced by political considerations, with potentially adverse impacts
on further privatization efforts. DGE requires qualified staff for its promotional and
normative functions and it will continue to depend on MEM funding for this purpose.
(b)   Hydrocarbons: PeruPetro will continue to require government political and
financial support to carry out its functions. For DGH, regulation of downstream
activities is likely to become more important. The issues associated with natural gas
development need to be addressed in time: although MEM may have financial
resources to develop the required legislation and regulations, it lacks flexibility to
contract experienced international consulting services, for which technical assistance
may be necessary.
(c)   Mining: The focus on artisanal mining, social-environmental issues including
environmental liabilities, and health and safety regulations needs to be strengthened
and support to the Mining Registry needs to be maintained. Investment promotion
needs to be further developed through a competitive legal/regulatory/institutional
framework and fiscal regime. Longer term issues such as a possible new buildup of
unprocessed applications and the proliferation of informal mining need to be
addressed. Ongoing CIDA support will help to maintain the momentum.
(d)   Environment: Activities need to progress to implementing pilot projects.
DGAA will benefit from CIDA funding to address this need.
Bank Performance
16.   Project preparation The Bank responded expeditiously to sector reform
requirements, as the Project was initiated at a critical moment when assistance was
most needed. The Project was based on a comprehensive analysis of the rehabilitation
and reform requirements in energy and mining, thus reinforcing the institution
building objectives of the preceding Privatization TA Loan (PTAL) and the
Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan (EPAL). Its focus also supported the 1993
CAS which emphasized stabilization and consolidation of reforms, fostering private
sector development and public sector reform, and strengthening institutional capacity.
The project concept was appropriate and most of the activities envisaged at initiation
were carried out in time.
17.   Project implementation Staff contributions to implementing the Project and
adjusting its concept to shifting needs were duly recognized by the Government.
However, a more active involvement at the outset, through Bank participation in a
workshop organized by the Borrower to launch the Project, might have helped to
avoid or reduce initial delays in project execution. Bank supervision during the initial
project phase was intensive when a strong effort was required to keep the Project on
track. Thereafter, supervision diminished, concentrating on the most difficult
components related to mining and environment, which coincided with reduced
budgets for supervision and constraints on staff availability. While the Bank was
concerned about project sustainability throughout project life, there was not enough
insistence that the Government prepare an operational plan before project closure.
18.   There were five task managers over the Project's five-year duration, in the
wake of internal reorganizations and staff departures, which may have adversely



15
affected institutional memory on such a complex undertaking, even though there was
permanence of specialized staff supervising the individual project components. The
Bank's disbursement conditions, such as no-objection requirements for even small
disbursement amounts, combined with delays in handling no-objection requests due
to multiple responsibilities of task managers, also may have been an obstacle to
implementation.
Borrower/ Implementing Agency Performance
19.   Five months passed between loan approval and effectiveness, due to delays in
(i) concluding a project administration agreement between MEM, MEF and UNDP,
(ii) obtaining MEF's legal opinion and certification of registration with MEF's
Directorate of Public Credit, and (iii) issuing organizational guidelines by MEM for
its entities and affiliated agencies. Once these issues were resolved, the Project
progressed smoothly. Continuity of government policies was critical to the Project's
success.
20.   The Coordinating Unit (initially comprising one general coordinator and three
sector coordinators) provided effective support to MEM's Directorates during the
initial stage. Project coordination from outside the Directorates was justified until
the latter acquired sufficient management and implementation skills. Subsequently,
the Coordinating Unit was reduced in size and project execution responsibility was
given to the Directorates, with the sector coordinators being transferred to the
Directorates. The Coordinating Unit was answerable to the Vice-Ministers of
Energy and of Mining in regard to the relevant project components. Annual
implementation plans were drawn up and were adjusted semi-annually. Ad-hoc
committees advised on specific project components and implementation issues.
Although during the life of the Project, there were three Unit Coordinators, they all
had been previously associated with the sectors as well as the Project. Most project
staff at the Coordination Unit and the Directorates were experienced and had a long
association with energy and mining.
21.   MEM's Directorates were instrumental in implementing the Government's
strategies in electricity, hydrocarbons, and mining, through measures aimed at sector
reforms, privatization, and environmental management. These measures often were
extensive and difficult, such as removing virtual regulatory powers from PetroPeru
and enforcing compliance with environmental guidelines and norms. On the other
hand, the objective of strengthening MEM's permanent staff was not achieved. In
particular, systematic staff training fell short of requirements, despite a loan covenant
to prepare a training plan.
22.   The UNDP Lima office played an important role in administering project
funding, reviewing disbursement requests, and advancing funds, subject to the Bank's
subsequent review and reimbursement, as well as organizing project audits. This
system worked well by providing transparency and avoiding possible implementation
delays when counterpart funds were temporarily lacking.
23.  Loan disbursements initially run ahead of schedule, in spite of the delayed
project start-up. However, after FY96, disbursements fell behind when more difficult
and untried tasks had to be tackled, eventually making a closing date extension of



16
and untried tasks had to be tackled, eventually making a closing date extension of
nine months necessary. This extension notwithstanding, the Project's core
components were completed on time.
Assessment of Project Outcome
24.   The outcome is rated "Satisfactory" in regard to preparation, appraisal, and
implementation of the Project, both for the Bank and the Borrower. The major
project objectives were achieved and overall project progress was smooth. Whereas
project sustainability depends in large measure on future budget allocations, the
Project's success was acknowledged by the Government, particularly MEF, whose
support in this area is crucial.
Future Operations
25.   Consideration was given by MEM and the Bank to a follow-on technical
assistance loan for energy and mining sector reforms. This option was eventually
discarded because MEM received a CIDA grant for mining and environment-related
technical assistance and because direct MEM resources from concessions, license
fees, etc. meanwhile provide adequate revenues. The Bank is providing support to
developing a rural electricity strategy funded through a PHRD grant, as a basis for
possible future lending. No other Bank operations in these sectors currently are
implemented or are planned.
Project Operational Plan
26.   MEM identified post-project activities which are required for the benefits
from EMTAL to be maintained, and is in the process of preparing an operational
plan. MEM and the Bank agreed on the need for the following:
*  Completion of regulations for electricity, hydrocarbons, and mining, with
emphasis on natural gas;
*  Continuation of institution building at MEM, especially the development
of monitoring and supervision capabilities for environmental obligations in
energy and mining;
*  Support and training for OSINERG;
*  Completion of PeruPetro's data bank;
*  Strengthening of regulations regarding mining health and safety;
*  Development of a mining database at INGEMMET;
*  Demonstration projects for environmental rehabilitation; and
*  Dissemination of environmentally sustainable operational practices to
small-scale and artisanal miners, especially gold producers.



17
Key Lessons Learned
27.   Most of the lessons relate to the elements which contributed to the Project's
success as a technical assistance operation, such as:
* Consistency of project objectives with development needs and strong
government support - both at project preparation through appropriate
policies and during implementation - are critical to the success of
technical assistance aimed at sector reforms. In turn, the preparation of
an appropriate legal/regulatory/institutional framework as result of
technical assistance is critical to the success of the reform program;
* Projects should seek to incorporate conditions that ensure continuity of
project direction and of management and personnel;
* Macroeconomic developments and the need to cope with vigorous
expansion in the energy and mining sectors enhanced the Project's
relevance. Although they cannot be controlled, macroeconomic and
sectoral prospects need to be taken into account when a decision on a
technical assistance project is taken;
* Given its crucial facilitating role, the project coordinating unit needs to be
carefully staffed, with emphasis on adequate sector experience and
professional networking skills. Mismanagement was avoided because
competent project coordinators were appointed and political continuity
within MEM was maintained; and
* The use of UNDP or other local offices as disbursement agent can avoid
bureaucratic delays in making project funds available, especially where
there are many small contracts, as is the case for technical assistance
projects.
28.   In regard to EMTAL's shortcomings, the lessons include:
* A multiplicity of objectives and activities can adversely affect the
achievement of objectives and should be avoided. The project concept
should be designed as firmly as feasible at appraisal, the need for flexibility
notwithstanding. Care should be taken that covenants are enforceable and
enforced;
* Given that technical assistance is supervision-intensive even though loan
amounts are relatively limited, the Bank should be prepared to make the
necessary resources available and take the monitoring requirements for
complex projects fully into account, paying attention to tailoring the
project to the capabilities of the borrower as well as the Bank's
supervision resources; and
* In the interest of effective supervision, project implementation should be
designed so as to limit labor-intensive and less effective forms of
contracting (e.g., with individual consultants) and reduce no-objection
requirements once there is evidence that project implementation is
progressing well.



18
Part I
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment Categories        Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                     X
Sector policies                  X         _
Financial objectives                            X          X_______X___
Institutional development         X
Physical objectives               X
Gender concerns                                                            X
Other social objectives           X
Environmental objectives          X
Public sector management          X
Private sector development        X
Other                                                                      X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely           I        Uncertain                     Unlikely
x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory
Identification                  X
Preparation                               _          X X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                                          X
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory  -    Satisfactory    |  Unsatisfactory
Preparation                                          X
Implementation                                       X
Covenant Compliance                                  X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory    |       Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
x



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans - Preceding Loans
Title             Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number       3489
Year of Approval  1992
Amount            US$400 mn
Objective         Sector rehabilitation and reform, including privatization of banks
Status            Completed
Title             Privatization Technical Assistance Loan (PTAL)
Loan Number       3540
Year of Approval  1993
Amount            US$30mn
Objective         Preparation of privatization in infrastructure (excluding electricity)
Status            Completed
Title             Privatization Adjustment Loan
Loan Number       3595-PE
Year of Approval  1993
Amount            US$250 mn
Objective         Preparation and Implementation of the Government's privatization program
(except electricity) and related policy and legal/regulatory reforms.
Status            Completed
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Planned Date            Actual/estimated Date
Identification                                         June, 1992
Preparation                                            September, 1992
Appraisal                  December, 1992              December, 1992
Negotiations                                           April, 1993
Board presentation                                     May 12, 1993
Signing                                                June 28, 1993
Effectiveness              June, 1993                  December 2, 1993
Project completion          June 30, 1997               September 30, 1998
Loan closing                December 31, 1997           September 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions equivalent)
FY 1993  FY 1994  FY 1995  FY 1996  FY 1997  FY 1998
Appraisal estimate        0         2.3       5.6       8.7       11.8      11.8
Actual                    0         2.5       6.8       9.9       10.6      10.7
Actual as % of estimate             109       121       114        90        91



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators         Startin , Date         Completion Date
Estimated    Actual   Estimated   Actual
Progress in demonopolization and        N.D.'        1994       N.D.      Ongoing
privatization of state-owned enterprises
Submission to Congress of relevant laws  N.D.        1992       N.D.        1996
and issuance of relevant regulations
Capability of MEM to recruit qualified  N.D.         1996       N.D.      Ongoing
staff and perform all tasks adequately
Monitoring of enterprise performance    1994         1995       1995        1996
indicators
'N.D.=Not Defined
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
[NOT APPLICABLE]



21
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study         Purpose as defined at         Status             Impact
appraisal/redefined
Energy        Analyze requirements, supply   Two studies were   Has helped in
strategy      options, formulate policies  commissioned and  determining what type
the results were    of policy-analysis tools
found to be      are needed.
unsatisfactory
Indicative    (Redefined during project    Plans have been    Basic input to
plans for     implementation)             implemented and   electricity price
electricity/  Estimate demand and supply    are updated     regulation.
hydrocarbons  requirements for tariff      regularly.
regulation and estimation of
investment requirements.
Completion of  Complement electricity law for  Secondary    Has provided legal
electricity   effective regulation         legislation drafted  foundation for Tariff
regulation                                                  Commission,
OS1NERG
Spec's for    Provide specifications for   Studies prepared    EMS in operation
EMS           implementation of energy mg't
system
Organization   Define functions and        A.D. Little study   PeruPetro in operation.
of Perupetro    organization of PeruPetro  finished
Organization   Define functions and scope of   Study executed  DGH organized
of            DGH, information system
Hidrocarbons
directorate
(DGH)                                       _
Mining        Information gathering regarding  Studies      Investors attracted by
promotion     mining subsector potential   completed,       current mining boom.
studies                                    Mining Atlas
published, CD
ROM version,
Mining plan,
videos
Mining infor-  Provide Mining Directorate  System designed   Increased productivity
mation system   with up to date information  and implemented   of DGM, better re-
(integrated geo-    sponse to investor re-
graphical/ geo-  quirements.
logical/ cadastral
information)
Cadastral sys-  Modernize the cadastralV con-   New cadastral  Property rights estab-
tem           cession process              system imple-    lished, fast turnaround
mented, petition    for new petitions.
backlog reduced
by 90%.
Environmental Indicate a sequence of projects   Master Plan de-    DGAA followed the
reorganization  and actions to implement envi-  signed and used    plan for implementing
Master Plan    ronmental policies         thereafter.       all subsequent phases of
the project.



22
Table 7 (cont'd)
Enviromnental  Establish rules maximum per-    Rules and          Expected to reduce
guidelines     missible levels, guidelines for    regulations     pollution to permissible
dealing with different aspects of  established    levels and moderate
each subsector                                    mining/ energy
environmental impact.
Territorial en-   Quantify/ assess environmental   16 studies were  Will serve as basis of
vironmental    deterioration in vulnerable areas  completed       rehabilitation measures.
assessment      (e.g. mining regions)
studies
DGAA           Enable DGAA to monitor and    Information          DGAA trained and
strengthening   exert control over             system and quality  equipped for control
studies        environrentally damaging        control procedures  role.
activities                     for assessments in
place
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$'000 equivalent)
Item                   App raisal Estimate                   Actual
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign    Total
Overall energy               160        740        900       110        565        675
Electricity                 770        2000       2770        90       2,293      2,383
Hydrocarbons                422        3630       4052        122      3,118      3,240
Mining                      1,900      1,900      3,800      248       3,025      3,273
Environment                 550        2650       3200       346       3,168      3,514
Coordinating Unit            20        220         240      1,140      1,303      2,443
UNDP administrative fees     30         330        360        0         302        302
Physical contingencies       190       546         736       N/A        N/A       N/A
Price contingencies         380        1,092      1,472      N/A        N/A       N/A
Total project costs         4,422     13,108     17,530     2,056      13,775    15,831
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$'000 equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate                          Actual
Item      EMTAL   PHRD    LOCAL   Total  EMTAL   PHRD               Local     Total
Overall energy    700     40       160      900      565       0         110       675
Electricity    1,650     415       705     2,770    1,493    800,        90       2,383
Hydrocarbons   3,470      160      422     4,052    3,118      0         122      3,240
Mining         3,150      0        650     3,800    3,025      0         248      3,273
Environment     800      2,000     400     3,200     896      2,272      346      3,514
Coord. Unit    240        0         0       240     1,303      0        1,140     2,443
UNDP fee        360       0         0       360      302        0         0        302
Physical cont.    489    131       117      736      N/A      N/A       N/A        N/A
Price cont.     977       262      234      1472     N/A      N/A       N/A        N/A
Total costs    11,836    3,008    2,688    17,530   10,703    3,072     2,056     15,831
1Spentppnor to project initiation



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
[NOT APPLICABLE]
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement/  Covenant  Status   Original    Revised      Covenant Description and
Section     Type            Fulfillment  Fulfillment         Comments
Date       Date
LA/2.04        3      C           -                  Borrower to pay Bank commit-
ment charges
LAS2.05(a)     3      0           -           -      Borrower to pay Bank interest
LA/2.07        3      0           -           -      Borrower to repay principal
LA/3.01        5      C           -           -      Borrower to implement the
project with due diligence.
LA/3.02(a)     5      C           -           -      Procurement of goods and
consultant's services to be
consistent with Bank guidelines.
LA/3.03(a)     5      C           -           -      Administration Agreement
required
LA/3.04        5      C           -           -      Borrower to establish
Coordinating Unit
LA/3.05        5      PC          -           -      Borrower to carry out the project
according to operational
guidelines and implementation
indicators
LA/3.06       5;9    C            -           -      Borrower to exchange views
with the Bank
LA/3.07        5      NC          -           -      Training plans to be established
LA/3.08        6      C           -           -      Agreements with specialized
external agencies for
environmental measurements.
LA/4.01 (a)    1      C           -           -      Borrower to maintain project
accounts
LAt4.0 1 (b)   1      C           -           -      Borrower to have accounts
audited
LA/4.01 (c)    1      C           -           -      Maintain records of withdrawals
from Loan Account in separate
accounts.



24
LA/ Schedule 2:       l       l     
Overall Energy
A-1        I   5       NC         8/94                  Comprehensive energy strategy
A-2             5      NC         6/95                  Strengening of CONERG
Elec city
B-1             5      C          11/93       11/93     Complete regulatory framework
B-2             5      C          6/96        12/95    Design of EMS
B-3 (a)         5      C          6/94        12/97    Model concession contracts
B-3 (b)         5      PC         6/94        12/97    Monitoring efficiency, safety
B-3 (c)         5      C          6/94        12/97    Concession registration system
B-3 (d)         5      PC         6/94        12/97    DGE organization and training
B4              5      C          12/93       12/93     Strengthening of CTE
B-5             5      C          11/93       11/93    New tariff system implementa-
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   tion
Hydroz carbons
C-1             5      C          12/94        6/96     Complete regulations
C-2             5      PC         6/96         6/97     Strengthening of DGH
C-3 (1)         5      C          12/95       12/94    PeruPetro establishment
C-3 (2)         5      C          12/95        5/97     PeruPetro database
Mining
D-1            5;6     C          6/95         3/98     Mining/environment regulations
D-2             5      C          6/96        12/96    Mining promotion program
D-3             5      C          6/96         9/98     Mining Info. System in DGM
D-4             5      C          6/95         2/97     New cadastral system'
Environment
E-1            5;6    PC          6/95        12/97     Strengthening of DGAA
E-2 (a)        5;6     C          3/95         3/98     Consolidate/prepare regulations
E-2 (b)        5;6     C          3/95        11/98     Operating guidelines prep.
E-2 (c)        5;6    C           3/95         3/97     Develop emission standards
E-2 (d)        5;6     C          3/95        12/97    Dissemination activities
E-3 (a)        5;6     C          6/96         6/96     Strengthen assessment
procedures
E-3 (b)        5;6     C          6/96         6/98     Monitoring of air/water/soil
quality
E-3 (c)        5;6     C          6/96        12/98    Environmental information
_system
E-3 (d)        5;6     C          6/96        12/97    Education/awareness programs
E-3 (e)        5;6    PC          6/96         7/96     Local community participation
E-4            5;6    PC          6/95         6/98     Sectoral EAs, action plans to
address issues.
Abbreviations used in Table 10: Agreements: LA=Loan Agreeement; Status: C=Complied; CD=Complied with delay;
CP=Complied Partially; CPD=Complied Partially with Delay; NC=Did not Comply; O=Ongoing. Types of covenants:
ADMadministration; EFF=Effectiveness; EXEC=Execution; FlN=Financial; MO=Management and Operations; and
OP=Operational Plan
Isubsequently modified to include the backlog problem



25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
[NOT APPLICABLE]
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned                      Actual
Staffiveeks   '000 US$      Staffweeks    '000 US$
Through appraisal                                         45.9          122.0
Negotiations through                                      20.9          57.6
Board approval
Supervision                                               141.7        479.1
Completion                                                 15           52.5
Total                                                     223.5        711.2



26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month    Days   No. of    Staffing   Rating  Key Areas of Concern/ problems
Project Cycle  and Year   in    persons
Field
Identification   September   12      5      lOP, IHE,  N/A      Agreement with Goverrnent on
and          1992                      1ME, IPE,            project rationale and objectives
preparation                                   lEC
Appraisal    December    10        4      lOP, lEC,  N/A       Agreement with Govermnent on
1992                       lES, ICs            project implementation
Supervision 1   July 1993    12      2      lES, IFA   S        Project coordination set-up
Supervision 2   July 1993   7        1        lEC       S       Energy strategy delays,
effectiveness conditions delays
Supervision 3   September   10       5      TM, 1ME,  S         Mining sector work, effectiveness.
1993                      lEC, 1FS,
lES
Supervision 4    March      5        2      TM, iME   S         Operational procedures
1994                                           (Coordinating Unit autonomy),
Mining component progress
Supervision 5    April      5        5      TM, IPE,  S         Focus on energy, hydrocarbons,
1994                      IHE, lEC,            environment; sustainability issues
lFS              raised
Supervision 6    June       14       4      TM, lEC,  S         Energy strategy concerns,
1994                       1PE, IFA            reallocation of funds.
Supervision 7   September   12       1         iME      S       Informal mining, environment
1994
Supervision 8    October    10       3      TM, lFA,  S         Administration/ UNDP
1994                         IPE               coordination, delays in contracting
studies, sustainability, applicability
of environmental guidelines.
Supervision 9   February    11       2      TM, lES   S         Sustainability, delays in contrac-
(Form 590)      1995                                           ting studies, MEF complaints.
Supervision 10  September    9       1         LME      S        Mining Registry issues, resources
1995                                           for processing backlog
Supervision 11  September   10       2       TM, IFA    S        Mid-term Review. Delay in
(590 Fonn)      and                                            strategy study. Concern with MEM
October                                         human resources.
1995                       _       _
Supervision 12   October    16       3      TM, IME,  S          MEM human resources vs. its
(590 Forn)      1996                         lECO              responsibilities. .
Supervision 13    April      9       2       TM, ME    S         Energy strategy study. Post-
(590 Fonn)      1997                                           EMTAL prospects. Delays in
environmental component, impact
on project completion.
Supervision 14  September    9       2       TM, ME    S         Loan closure extended until June
(Form 590)    -October                                         30, 1998. Revision of Electricity
1997                                           Code recomnmended. Focus on
possible EMTAL II.
Completion     January     11       2      TM, CON   2         Moderate difficulties in obtaining
11-22,                                         information due to dispersal of
1999                                           Coordinating Unit
Staffing codes: TM= Task Manager, EC= Economist, PE= Power Engineer, ME= Mining Engineer, FS= Financial
Specialist, HE= Hydrocarbons Engineer, OP= Operations Officer, ES= Environmnent Specialist CON= Consultant



27
Appendix A
SUMMARY OF LOAN OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Loan Objectives            Loan            Achievement by Loan Closing
Conditionality
(Schedule 2)
Overall Energy
Comprehensive energy strategy    I   A-1    Not completed
Strengthening of CONERG            A-2     Not achieved-CONERG abolished
Electricity
Complete regulatory framework      B-1     Regulations drafted
Design of EMS                      B-2    Interconnection in operation
Model concession contracts        B-3 (a)   Models Designed
Monitoring efficiency, safety    B-3 (b)   Procedures designed
Concession registration system   B-3 (c)  Implemented
DGE organization and training    B-3 (d)   DGE study executed
Strengthening of tariff comm.      B-4     Tariff Commission operative
New tariffsystem implementation    B-5     Tariffs implemented and readjusted since '93
__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ Hydrocarbons
Complete regulations               C-1     Regulations drafted
Strengthening of DGH               C-2     DGH organization study executed
Perupetro establishment           C-3 (1)   Perupetro operative
Perupetro database                C-3 (2)   Database operative
Mining
Mining/environment regulations     D-1     Regulations drafted
Mining promotion program           D-2    Publications disseminated
Mining Info. System in DGM         D-3    Information system in place
New cadastral system'              D-4     Mining Registry operative and computerized,
backlog minimized
Environment
Strengthening of DGAA              E-1     Expertise in environmental affairs
strengthened, particularly through the projects
division
Consolidate/prepare regulations   E-2 (a)   Environmental regulations prepared.
Operating guidelines prep.        E-2 (b)   Operating guidelines disseminated
Develop emission standards        E-2 (c)   Emission standards developed, disseminated
Dissemination activities          E-2 (d)   Accomplished through publications
Strengthen assessment procedures    E-3 (a)   Standards for EIAs were set
Monitoring of air/water/soil quality   E-3 (b)   Accomplished for selected sites
Environmental information system  E-3 (c)   Computerized system in place
Education/awareness programs      E-3 (d)   Publications disseminated, workshops
organized
Local community participation     E-3 (e)   Workshops and seminars
Sectoral EAs, action plans to      E-4     Environmental assessments were executed for
address issues.                            mining and hydrocarbons areas.



28
PERU                          Appendix B
Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Project ("EMTAL"; Loan No. 3610A-PE) -
Supervision and ICR Preparation Mission, January 11-22, 1999
Aide memoire
Introduction
1.    A mission to carry out the final supervision/ICR preparation of captioned project
visited Peru during January 12-15 (Mr. J.U. Richter; task manager) and January 12-22,
respectively (Mr. F. Lecaros, energy and infrastructure specialist). The mission met with
the key officials of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF), Electricity Tariff Commission, PeruPetro, the Sectoral Office for
Investment Control (OSINERG), the UNDP Lima office, and members of MEM's
EMTAL Coordination Unit. The mission would like to express its appreciation forhe
cooperation and support received by these institutions.
EMTAL Achievements
2.    On balance, the assessment of EMTAL by the Government and other stakeholders
has been positive. It was recognized that the Project (and preceding it, PHRD grants to
assist in preparing new laws and regulations for mining, electricity, and hydrocarbons;
liberalization of petroleum products prices; and electricity tariff reform) was initiated at a
critical moment when the outcome of the reform process was uncertain. Thus, EMTAL
reinforced the reform process, the same way as EMTAL's implementation benefited from
the success of reforms, as well as fromeconomic recovery starting in 1994.
3.    For virtually all its components, EMTAL was a catalyst for access to state-of-the
art professional expertise which at least at initial stages of project implementation, would
have been inaccessible to Peru. Following the enactment of new laws in the three sectors,
EMTAL's support was important for preparing associated regulations (16 for
hydrocarbons alone) and technical norms and guidelines.
4.    For environmental regulation and monitoring including the preparation of an
Environmental Masterplan, the determination of environmental liabilities of operators in
the three sectors, and the establishment of maximum emission limits, the Project provided
a quantum leap, leading from a near-zero basis to a position where MEM's environment-
related activities are now considered exemplary for the rest of the economy. In mining
and hydrocarbons, EMTAL's contribution to strengthening promotion and contract
management (through the creation of PeruPetro in hydrocarbons) as well as regulatory
entities was recognized as instrumental for attracting considerable foreign investment to
these sectors and for improving the Government's relations and coordination with private
enterprise. The creation under EMTAL of a modem mining cadastre and the resolution



29
of pending (often overlapping) requests for mineral rights was essential for revamping the
administration of the mining sector and for establishing clear property rights. Improved
sector statistics and annual indicative plans for electricity, hydrocarbons, and mining have
become important promotional tools and in the case of electricity, have been essential for
analyzing marginal costs of system expansion, as aasis for tariff setting. MEM and its
Directorates have become more technical in their approach and outlook.
Critical Observations and Lessons Learned
5.   It was recognized that EMTAL was a complex project which incorporated many
novel features which were untried in Peru and elsewhere. In this context, the following
critical observations were received:
(i) The focus of EMTAL's interventions was too narrow and ad-hoc, and strategic
priorities at times were not pursued decisively enough.
(ii) The energy strategy evaluation (planned as a component of EMTAL) lacked
government support and was ill-conceived inasmuch as initially, an outdated, central-
planning type methodology was attempted to be applied to a new market-based, private
enterprise driven system. Much time was lost in devising a more appropriate approach,
despite workshops and early presentations by the Bank suggesting this approach. In the
end, there was insufficient time left for using EMTAL funds for this activity, prior to the
Loan's closing date.
(iii) Institutional strengthening of MEM: EMTAL provided considerable resources for
modernizing information systems and administrative procedures but contributed
relatively less to systematic and needs-relevant staff training. No training plan was
devised even though required under the Loan Agreement, and some funds allocated to
training remained undisbursed and had to be canceled. There were cases of MEM
officials who benefited from training under EMTAL but soon afterward left government
service. The authorities explained that the persistence of staff weaknesses continues to
pervade the government administration at large, and EMTAL in isolation could not
provide a solution to this deep-seated problem (even though at loan negotiations, the
Bank requested the Government to provide a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address
this problem). Staff reductions that took place at MEM and its Directorates might have
weakened some functions of the institution, suggesting that institutional strength and
organizational responsibilities have not been well-aligned.
(iv) Enforcement of compliance in energy and mining: While an adequate
legal/regulatory/institutional framework was established for the three sectors, the entities
for technical regulation (i.e.., MEM's Directorates General for Electricity, Hydrocarbons,
and Mining) remained weak in regard to enforcing compliance with regulations and
norms. For this reason, these functions were transferred to OSINERG, created in end-



30
1996 with the responsibility to enforce compliance of commitments resulting from
privatization agreements in electricity and hydrocarbons, including service quality and
environmental commitments.
(v) Project management: During project implementation (May 1993 - September
1998), there were three principal EMTAL coordinators at MEM. At the Bank, there were
five task managers over the same period whose tenure ranged from three years to five
months so much of the institutional memory was lost on both sides. As a result, frequent
delays occurred in responding to no-objection requests, aggravated by conflicting work
commitments of the Bank task managers, particularly as these individuals were frequently
absent from Bank headquarters on mission travel. The authorities suggested that on part
of the Bank, the response time to requests should be shorter; no-objection requests should
be required only if the amount of the request exceeds a certain threshold; and generally,
the Bank should take a more collaborative (vs controlling/enforcing) approach in working
with the national project officials.
(vi) Project financing: There were initial difficulties in securing counterpart funds, so
the local UNDP office (which administered disbursements) had to advance the required
contribution on behalf of the Government until a revolving fund was established. In the
end, loan closure took place too early (notwithstanding two closing date extensions
totaling 15 months), so important items to be implemented under EMTAL could not be
completed as planned. These included the national electricity code, the hydrocarbons
data bank (whose financing through EMTAL had previously been reduced from
US$2.3mn to US$1.7mn, thus limiting its scope) and regional environmental
assessments.
Follow-Up to EMTAL
5.    The authorities decided not to request the Bank to finance a follow-on project
("EMTAL-2") primarily because of (i) the Goverunent's decision to restrict the use of
loans for funding technical assistance, and (ii) the availability of other funds, i.e., a CIDA
grant for approximately US$8mn equivalent for technical assistance in hydrocarbons and
mining and MEM's own revenues through fees, royalties, etc. from the three sectors.
6.    There are needs for continued action to ensure the sustainability of results
achieved through EMTAL. The most important ones are:
(i) completion of the program of regional environmental assessments for mining,
improving social-environmental management for small-scale and artisanal mines
in the Madre de Dios region, and initiating pilot projects;



31
(ii) preparation of a legalVregulatory/institutional framework for natural gas';
(iii) completion of PeruPetro's data bank for hydrocarbons;
(iv) systematic review and refinement of existing regulations especially for
electricity; and
(v) institutional strengthening and systematic staff development at MEM and the
other sector entities, including a training program that takes account of rapidly
shifting needs and aims at creating a core of competent professionals at MEM
whose affiliation with the institution would be relatively long-term.
Proposed Next Steps
7.    The mission proposes the following schedule for preparing the ICR:
(a) First draft - February 1O
(b) Draft ICR to be sent to the Government for comments - February 17
(c) ICR to be finalized - March 10
(d) ICR to be distributed to the Board of Executive Directors - March 21.
8.    The mission requests the Government to submit to the Bank, by February 8, an
operational plan for MEM including information on budgets of MEM's General
Directorates, required to preserve the achievements of EMTAL.
9.    The mission's conclusions and recommendations are subject to approval by Bank
management.
Lima, 22 January, 1999
Joerg-Uwe Richter
Task Manager
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This framework could follow in large measure the framework for electricity regulation. The
Electricity Tariff Commission has started to acquaint itself with natural-gas related regulation in other
countries in the Region.



32
Appendix C
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (LOAN 3610A-PE)
Executive Summary
The Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL) for US$11.8mn was
signed on June 28, 1993, complemented by a PHRD Grant for Mining Environmental
Management which amounted to Y275mn (equivalent, at the time, to US$2.2mn).
Previous Japanese grants for preparing the Electricity Concessions Law, the electricity
tariff study, and the Organic Law for Hydrocarbons, totaling Y94.5mn (US$800,000)
were also part of the program. Together with counterpart funds of US$2.7mn, the total
EMTAL program amounted to US$17.5mn. The program's execution started in
September, 1993. The official loan closing date was 31 December, 1997, but two
extensions were granted, until 30 September, 1998. At closure, 91% of the Bank loan
had been disbursed, together with 99% of the Japanese Grant. The project's performance
has been qualified as successful and, as shown hereafter, contributed decisively to the
restructuring and reform of the energy and mining subsectors in Peru.
Project Objectives, Scope and Implementation Arrangements
Project objectives consisted of (a) consolidating the restructuring and reform process by
completing regulatory reforms and supporting their implementation; (b) supporting the
formulation and monitoring the implementation of strategies and policies within the new
legal and regulatory framework; and (c) strengthening the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM) and organizations connected with it in order for them to perform their functions
efficiently.
To achieve the project's objectives, subprograms were designed for each sector
(electricity, hydrocarbons, mining and environment), with specific subprojects and tasks.
The subprograms included:
*  Developing an integrated energy strategy;
*  Developing indicative plans for electricity, hydrocarbons and mining;
*  Developing regulations to complement the Electricity Concessions Law,
and the Hydrocarbons Law, as well as preparing environmental
regulations;
*   Strengthening the Electricity Directorate (DGE), the Hydrocarbons
Directorate (DGH), the Environment Directorate (DGAA), the Mining
Directorate (DGM, ), and the Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE);
supporting the Mining Registry and organizing Perupetro (the Government
entity which negotiates and grants hydrocarbons concessions);
*  Promoting investment in the power and mining sectors;



33
*  Developing information systems for the Mining and Environment
Directorates;
*  Developing and disseminating information regarding environmental
regulation; and
*  Supporting environmental assessments.
Project implementation was entrusted to the corresponding general directorates within
MEM (henceforth called "Executing Units"). In order to assure consistency throughout
project implementation, a Coordinating Unit was created which facilitated and advised
the Executing Units, and liaised with external agencies (i.e. mainly the World Bank,
UNDP, the Ministry of Economics and Finance).
The Bank supervised the implementation by requiring prior no-objection of expenditures
financed through Bank or PHRD Grant funds. Disbursement of Bank/Grant funds was
entrusted to UNDP. Counterpart funds which consisted of tax revenues from goods and
services delivered under the project were provided to UNDP through a revolving fund
which was replenished periodically. Other local counterpart funds were managed directly
by the Coordinating Unit through the General Resource and Services office of MEM.
The EMTAL project was implemented by providing consulting services, equipment and
training. Consulting services covered a wide variety of subjects, including:
3 Preparation of regulations attendant to sector laws;
*  Implementation of regulations;
*  Preparation of indicative plans and strategic development plans;
*  Advisory services to apply the new legal framework;
*  Applied technology research;
* Development of technical norms;
*  Sector organization and strengthening;
*  Design and implementation of sector information systems;
*  Territorial Environmental Assessments;
*  Support to update backlogged applications in the Public Mining Registry.
Equipment was provided for the implementation of information systems at MEM,
including both hardware and software and for environment-monitoring installations
together with publications, including norms, standards and reference material.
The training component was designed to support an effective upgrading of professional
skills at MEM through seminars and specialized workshops, support for participation in
short term events, and training programs associated with the acquisition of new
equipment. EMTAL-backed training was oriented towards complementing the normal
training programs of the Ministry.



34
Achievement of Project Objectives
EMTAL has been able to achieve most of its major objectives. Specific achievements
which indicate the program's effectiveness are:
(a)  Overall energv:
*  Indicative plans for electricity and hydrocarbons were developed and the
know-how to update them has been effectively internalized;
*  The initial objectives for an integral energy strategy were not achieved;
however, the discussion process itself was useful and helped to point out
the type of information which was needed as input for policy decisions.
(b) Electricity subprogram:
* EMTAL supported the implementation of reforms to enhance efficiency
and competitiveness, including corporate restructuring in preparation for
privatization, the implementation of the concessioning process, the
implementation of a supervision system, and actions for improving
system efficiency. The program's achievements include the design of
strategies for applying reforms, the formation of the Southeastern,
Southern and Ucayali generation and transmission enterprises, the
development of norms and procedures for transferring assets to the new
companies, the procedures for awarding concessions for generation,
transmission and distribution, the procedures for enforcing service quality
standards and norms (especially environmental guidelines), and for
channeling customer complaints. EMTAL supported the organization of
the Operations Committee for the central-northern interconnected system
(COES) and specifications for dispatch/interconnection of the Electroperu
and Electrolima enterprises (before the latter's privatization);
- The second major element of the electricity subprogram consisted of
strengthening the Electricity Directorate of MEM; an information system
was implemented which supports DGE's indicative planning and
promotion activities. The initial phase of a project for updating and
modernizing the National Electricity Code was supported by EMTAL
(the subsequent phase will be financed through DGE's own funds).
(c)  Hydrocarbons subprogram: A major reform in the sector consisted of
removing public sector functions from the state oil company (Petroperu) and
vesting them in Perupetro; the latter is now in charge of promoting and
contracting oil concessions, and, as a result, over 50 new companies have
entered the upstream business. This component consisted of completing
regulatory reform, including a review and adjustment to the existing
framework, and strengthening the hydrocarbons directorate, supporting the
establishment of Perupetro and the creation of its data bank. EMTAL's
achievements include:
* Regulations to complement the hydrocarbons law;



3E
* The Hydrocarbons directorate was strengthened, based on an institutional
study, by providing it with an information system (which is essential for
its reserve-estimation function) and an up to date technical library;
Perupetro was organized as a promotion and contracting entity;
The Perupetro database has been partially implemented (it consisted of
organizing and storing electronically the available geological information
for oil exploration investors).
(d) Mining subprogram. The mining component of EMTAL was given a high
priority due to the sector's importance for the national economy and the
expansion of private investment in the sector. Achievements include:
* Promotion of mining was achieved by compiling and disseminating
information regarding investment opportunities at different levels within
the mining sector; an indicative mining plan was produced, a mining atlas
was edited, a Web page was designed and a CD ROM was distributed,
educational material was provided to small-scale miners; in coordination
with the environmental component of EMTAL, the problems associated
with artisanal mining were diagnosed. An agreement was concluded with
the Institute of Mining Engineers of Peru to undertake a regional mining
promotion program. The need for multisectoral projects to deal with
socio-environmental problems in gold mining was determined.
* A mining information system was put in place; EMTAL supported the
initial compilation of information and database design, together with data
processing equipment.
* The cadastral/ concessioning system was redesigned to improve the
administration of mining rights. A backlog of 23000 applications was
reduced to around 2000, thereby increasing the area under valid
concessions from 2.5 mn ha to 20 mn ha. This achievement was crucial
to mining promotion, as it allows property rights to be established which
enable miners to access bank credit and encourage them to undertake
longer term investments in capital-intensive items such as environmental
control.
(e)  Environmental subprogram. This component, which cuts across subsectors,
was particularly relevant to mining due to the damaging consequences of
uncontrolled activities on the environment and on miners' health. Activities
were supported both through EMTAL and PHRD Grant No. TF022474.
Achievements include:
* Drafting and applying environmental regulations for the energy and
mining sectors, defining maximum emission levels, establishing standards
and publishing environmental guidelines. On account of this activity a
modern framework for environmental monitoring and compliance was
put in place;
* Developing an environmental master plan as a framework for follow-on
activities;



36
*  Evaluating the effects of informal mining and delimiting critical areas;
*  Supporting territorial environmental assessments in 14 mining areas, in
particular those where informal mining is prevalent, and 2 hydrocarbon-
bearing areas, with a view to establishing environmental liabilities (based,
among others, upon an inventory of closed mines), and including air
quality surveys in three mining/metal refining centers;
*  Establishing priorities for mitigation activities and pilot projects;
*  Evaluating environmental mitigation programs;
*  Developing a program to enhance the capabilities of existing
environmental control laboratories;
*  Strengthening the General Directorate for Environmental Affairs
(DGAA) through the development of information systems and
procedures, monitoring environmental assessments, and providing
training;
* Designing and implementing an environmental information system.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
There has been significant advance in the establishment of a regulatory framework for the
energy and mining subsectors, support for designing and formulating development
policies through indicative plans, an assessment of environmental liabilities in mining
regions, and an institutional strengthening of MEM; also, equipment to support the
operation of up to date information systems was acquired as part of the project.
FUTURE ACTIVITIES
The efforts initiated under EMTAL should continue in order to consolidate sector
reforms, particularly in regard to restructuring and institutional strengthening. This
should facilitate processes to guarantee service quality through regulation within a
competitive, private sector based, framework. Efforts should also continue to define
strategies for sustained development of the energy and mining sectors and for mitigating
the environmental liabilities which have been caused by sector activities.



37
Appendix D
PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN
The Government is in the process of preparing an operational
plan aimed at maintaining EMTAL's achievements.



IBRD 26572R
1 ~~ECUADOR j>5CLMI 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0  to'                     5*    0                                  L 5                                                          I
Taor  ,*,                             T glo - onzr 4,
Polo                          Car ,op 6  ,_
punal,  /               ?j4<sdOse&
UE:               .-Juter   %-)                                             , 46    .j  -   PAVED ROADS
- Lan,    0SlC      3                                                                                ..... . S A N  . |' .   OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
p                                     MARTI i*-or Juonj                                         -s-----s- RAILROADS
Msg     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.  ~~~....RAILFERRY
Ch-ir  Adoio4                           bOtu~ 4$ajobaba §  ! 9 g y ,AIRPORTS
LA ERA    D            0T-ch. '±                                                     PORTS                        8-
fSO3&OpdJCJW~O~  N.>E's5v )                        <-1/ nRIVERS
ZXSX       *)     \~,4 ]'2                                                        -  -a a  - _' DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
;   -    - .f   AC:SH '              |              Z               '1o                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
65  1  : 00 0t < 2sIIUANUc%/ - ~UCAYALI >_9
'~HUAANUCO      
'O'  '    - "E' ---   '  t  ,R   s_)cui (                                                     *_@_ -         41
Go an go  ~   PASCO
5  7  ' + G2an4<~~~~~tERODE    PO5x°MP-                                                                           B R A   Z  I L
: C,  E  A   ,               '         m-S  -    Yo-o     . o ocy'          -. o  ~   --,.>;<i4'_ 
12f  -.    -IJ
- doh'i     - A R A N    ,- t     M   A   D     R     E   D     E   D     I  J   S
Y.Uyos~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
i 5 S; -Vt -*S * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-,                                                           s         =        16'
P. ls.sdo. coos . lFeaoso on a nd  X lan othe 1 B°n0
.~.~  6 ;- -' 80'-      .r -                .8'-                    A.
RM   1996



