Docawit of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
4,;W~. ut. N. F'-- t; '-t l .    TvpI-  ( Fi
Y:ti~~vt  P: PKSY A ND  N iN IN O  'ECT~N t2A: AS
A*th.   l                                                         R  t X > , i . ( . ;; r P.  NoI P-6039-PE
'>!  :;"s;.i; 1'-,,n: +r-I   ' I D~-S.t . .JU '
MORAND)UN A1ND RECONNATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPtMET
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVAL1NT TO US$11.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPU3BLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
ENERGY AND MINIG TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (EI)
MAY 12, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be sed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of March 11, 1993)
Currency Unit = Sol
US$1.00= 1.77
1 Sol = US$.5650
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMDEP          -      Asociaci6n Multidisciplinaria de Investigacidn en Poblaci6n
CAP            -      Andean Development Fund (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento)
CTE            -      Electricity Tariff Commission (Comisi6n de Tarifas Electricas)
COES           -      Comit6 de Operaci6n Econ6mica del Sistema Interconectado
CONERO         -      Nationa Energy Council (Consejo Nacional de Energfa)
COPRI          -       Commission for Promotion of Private Investment (Comisi6n de
Promocion de la Inversi6n Pnvada)
DGE            -       General Electricity Directorate
D1GH           -       General Hydrocarbons Directorate
DGM            -       General Mining Directorate
DGAA           -       General Directorabt on Environmental Matters (Direcci6n General
de Asuntos Ambientales)
DIGESA         -       Direcci6n General de Salud Ambiental
Electrolima    -      Lima Electricity Company
Electroperu    -       Peru Electricity Conpany (Empresa de Blectricidad del Peru)
EMS            -      Energy Management System
EMTAL          -       Energy and Mining Technical Asistance Loan
INMADI         -       Investigacidn Medio Ambiente Inutria
INAPMAS        -       Instituto Nacional de Protecci6n del Medio Ambientb
INGEMMET              Instituto Geol6gico Minero y Metaldrgico
IB            L- Limited Intemational Bidding
MEM            -      Ministry of Energy and Mines
NBF            -      Non-Bank Finance
NGO            -      Non-Govemmental Organization
ONERN          -      National Evaluation Office of Natural Resources (Oficina Naciona
de Evaluaci6n de Recursos Naturales)
PAHO           -      Pan American Health Organization
SAL            -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SCADA          -       Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SICN           -       Central-Northern Interconnected System
SOE            -      State-owned Enterpaise
TOR            -       Terms of Reference
UNDP           -      United Nations Development Program
VME            -      Viceministry of Energy
VMM            -      Viceministry of Mining



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ENYM AND MNG TFCWAL ASSISTANCE LOAN ETL
Laan and uWect U==
Republic of Peru
Executitir Age:   MMistry of Energy and Mines (MM
Boneffcades:        MEM and its centralized and autonomos agencies
AmQImt:             US$11.8 milion equivalent
MmrXs:              Repayment in 20 yeas, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
Proj   gWect vre:   To assist the Government of Peru in the insttutional development of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM) and its related entitias in order to ensure their adequate
contribution to economic stabilization and structural reform in the energy and mining
sectors, in particular to the privaizaion effort.
DeItdfl:            The project consists of: (a) (i consltancy (firms and individuals) for carrying out
studies which would provide recommendations for MEM's institonal development
and fli) implementation of the recommendations of these studies; (b) traiing progam
for MEM and other relevant staff, in Peru and abroad; and (c) compute software and
hardware, particularly to provide adequate stadstical information to the market and to
help MEM to develop its policies. These services would assist MEM in: (i)
completing the process of lega and regulatory reforms for the energy and mining
sectors; (ii) strengthening its organizational unks and procedures; (iii) increasing the
professional capabilities of its staff, and (iv) developing specific guidelines for
environmental protection in energy and mining projects.
fstimated Project Cost:
C=onwonets                                          LalFe
(1) Overall Energy       0.16          0.74         0.90
(2) Eleetricity          0.77          2.00         2.77
(3) Hydrocarbons         0.42          3.63         4.05
(4) Mining               1.90          1.90         3.80
(5) Environment          055           2 6320
Subtotal              3.80         10.92        14.72
Physical Contingencies   0.19          0.55         0.74
Price Contingencies      0.38           1.09        1.47
Project Coordinating Unit   0.02       0.22         0.24
UNDP Administrative Fee   0M 0303                   0.36
Total                L44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Proosd Financing Plan (in USS million):
IBRD               11.8
Goverment           2.7
Japanese Grants     .0
Estimate Disbursemept     Banlc PY:             4l9S1612
Annual:                                2.3   3.3   3.1   3.1
Cumulative:                            2.3   5.6   8.7  11.8
Economic Rate of Retun:    Not Applicable
hEnmronmental
tCJassificatio:    C



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMDUMATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF TIRE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AM DEVELOPNT
TOT  EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
MRI AN MD=  AN  CRM  wMICUA  S                       ME.PR
1.           I submit the following memon  and ommendation on a proposed loan to the
Republic of Peru, for the equivalent of US$11.8 million, to help finnce an energy and mining
techWcal assce project. Ihe loan would be repaid over 20 yers, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
2.           Bacund  On taking office in August 1990, President Fujimori's Government
aumched a major stabilization and struwtal reform progam. It expanded its reform program In mid-
1991 to include privatization, with the objective of privatzing all state-owned enterprises (SOBs)
before Its term expires in mid-1995. Ihe privadzation program is supervised by an intr-ministria
commission (COPRI), reporting direcy to the President of the Republic. The privaizaton process
has already strut  in the hydrocarbons sector with the sale of Solgas and 74 of Petropr's 82 service
stadons and in the mining sector with the sae of Hierroperu nd holdin    Mineroperu (Minera
Condestable, Quellaveco, and Mipeco USA). Preparatory studies for privatzation are being caied
out for the other hydrocarons, power and minig companies.
3.           The Government is also enacaing new policy, legal and regulatory measures to
promote compeition and to facilite prvate investment. Recent economy-wide meastues include new
anti-ust and labor legslation. Comprehensive new legislation has been passed for electricity and
mining, and is being prepared for hydrocarbons. The policy reform and privatzation effots,
however, require for their completion and success the strengthening of Government insittons which
are responsible to: (1) monitor the implementation of the new policies; (iU) complement the sector legal
framework with the corresponding reguations and guidelines; (iii) absorb the strategy and regulatory
fimctiom which were previously vested in the SOEs now being privatized; (Iv) protect against
monopolistic conditions; and (v) ensure evironmental protection.
4.           Cau=  Assistanc Sg. In March 1993, Peru successuly completed a debt
workout program and cleared its arrears with the Bank and the IMP. The Govemt also agreed
wit  e d  PW on a three-year stabiization program and finacing plan to be supported by an Extended
Fund Facility. The Bnks counry assistance strategy for Peru was discussed and approved by the
Board on Aprfl 20, 1993, together with ihe $250 million Privadzatlon Adjustment Loan. Under the
assistnc strategy, lending iS forecast at $500 milliou annually from FY94-96, auming mainte
of a satisfatory macroeconomic program and finmcing plan The assistance strategy has four main
objectives: (a) to susti stabilization and consolidate stuctural reforms; (b) to fter prvate sector
developmet and public sector reform; (c) to alleviate poverty and promote human resource
development; and (d) to rehabiltate key irstucure and reform related policies. Strengthening
istituional capacity is fundmental to all four strategic objectives.
5.           The project will assist the Government in Implementing new institutional and
regulry hfrmework for the electricity, hydrocarbons, and mning sectors, thereby faciitaing
prIva hation and prWate investment in these key sects. It will also help develop new envimel
policies/guidelines and strengthen enviromenal monitoring and enforcement capacity In these
sectors.



* 2 -
6.           ihnnerEn       and Mining Sectors. The energy and miring sectors play a key role in
Peru's economy: they contribute an estimated 11 % of GDP, 53% of exports, and 35-40 % of fiscal
revenues. Sector enterprises constitute over 70% of Government holdings (in book value). Both
sectors took a serious down-tn during the second half of the 1980s, triggered by the decline in the
overall economy, which they in turn aggravated. The root causes of the decline of energy- and
mining-related activites were (i) institutional and policy inadequacies, especially regarding energy
prices which weakened the enterprises so that these were unable to carry out maintenance, let alone
expand their productive capacities; (ii) wide-spread government ownership and control in both sectors:
and (iii) operational inefficiencies at the enterprises. The Government recognizes that the
rehabilitation and growth of the overall economy hinges on profound reforms and strengthening of the
energy and miulng sectors. The Government, with the assistance of the Bank and well-qualifieu
advisors, has established long-range policies for the energy and mining sectors (Annex 2), to: (i)
modernize and strengthen the legal/regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) maximize the play of
market forces; (iii) establist a pricing system which reflects economic costs; (iv) privatize SOEs and
promote private investment in -aew facilities; and (v) reform the corporate structure of SOEs while
tbey are not yet privatized.
7.           Responsibility for overall energy strategy and policy advise is vested in the National
Energy Council (Consejo Nacional de Energfa, CONERG). This institution is weak and requires
substanti strengthening to carry out its functions. The institutional framework for the electric
esbor~ has been defined in a decree law on electricity concessions enacted in November 1992. It
establishes the following principles: (a) generation is deregulated and sudoject to market forces through
competition; (b) transmission provides open access to suppliers and purchasers under a common
carrier system with an adequately rgulated toll scheme and node prices; (c) distribution as a natural
monopoly is fully regulated in regard to rights and duties of the market participants; and (d) prices
are liberalized at the generation stage and regulated at the transmission and distnrbution stages.
8.           The Government policy for hrocabons establishes that (a) all prices be
deregulated, competition established where contestable markets exist, and natural monopolies be made
subject to arms-length regulation; (b) the development and operation of the sector be undertaken by
the private sector; (c) efficient operations and optimal contribution of the sector to public revenues be
achieved through appropriate pricing (including taxation, linkage to international markets, and
domestic competition) and a clear policy of contractual arrangements with the private sector
concerning exploration/development, rather than through government ownership.
9.           In the case of ming, the Government policy establishes: (a) an enabling legal
framework conducive to private investment; (b) the strengthening of sector institutions with well-
defined mandates to effectively administer and monitor compliance with established regulations
(including environmental); and (c) promotion of private investment through the provision of basic
geological data and other services.
10.            ionale for Bank I'Mmer. The Bank's strategy in Peru is to support strategies,
policies, and investments that encourage the resumption of economic growth and social development
in a context of structural change and environmental sustainability. The emphasis is on efficient
resource allocation, increased effectiveness in the public sector, and the appropriate targeting and
delivery of support systems to the poor. Ihe energy and mining sectors are key to this strategy:
electricity and hydrocarbons are essential to any productive activity in the economy, whereas mining
as principal export sector has to generate the foreign exchange needed for economic growth. Both
sectors are at a crossoads where pervasive state intervention and government ownership are being
replaced by greater compettion and private participation. However, a strategy aimed at
decentralization and privatization requires a strong and effective regulatory and monitoring system,



-3 -
which has yet to be put into place. Ihis entails the preparation of regulations, administrative
guidelines, and tehical nonr.. In support of legislation euacted or to be enacted. It also entails the
strenghening of government and other public insitions that are responsible for implementing the
Govement's new energy and mining policies. In support of this process, the Bank can bring to bear
its knowledge of Peru's energy and mining sectors gained through previous loans and sector studies,
its experience with sector reforms in comparable countries, and its recent involvement in several other
operations, Including for privatization, which seek to reform Peru's economic policies.
11.          Since May 1991, the Bank has been working closely with the Government to help
prepare and implement an economy-wide privatization program and related secoral policy/legal
reforms. For this proposa!, substantial technical assistance is being supplied, financed by the UNDP,
by two Japanese grants of US$2.2 million and US$0.8 million for mining and energy respectively, by
the US$30 million Privatzation TA loan, and by this proposed EMTAL. Under the SAL, the Bank
has agreed with the Government on sectoral development policies and strategies which will be
supported kiW  ia by: (a) the US$250 million Privaization Adjustment Loan and (b) a proposed
FY94 Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan.
12.          I esons LeaMrd from Past Bank Projects. lhe design of this EMTAL reflects
lessons learned from the Bank's internaional experience in sector reform and in institutional
development under a recently liberalized and privatized setting, and experience in Peru prior to the
mid-1980s under technical assistance opetions for public sector management and investment for
energy and mining projects. Key lessons include the need to: (a) ensure the continuity of *he reform
program, during and after the execution of the TA operaton; (b) ensure consistency and coordination
between the reform/privazaton and the Institutional development process; (c) limit the scope and
size of the TA loan to keep it focussed and manageable; and (d) have well-defined loan administration
and financing arrangements in place up-front.
13.            ect ObjeAives. In view of the requirements for sector reform, the project aims at
assisting the Government in: (a) implementing sector strategies and policies, especially
demonopolization and privatizaton of state-owned enterprises; (b) completing the legal and regulatory
reform of the energy and mining sectors, including environmental regulation; and (c) strengthening
the capabilities of MEM and the related instiutions, especiall!' the autonomous regulatory entities, to
regulate and monitor the operations of the enterprises in the sector. Ihe project thus would enable
MEM and its agencies to contribute adequately to the Governmentes privaization, deregulation, and
sector development efforts.
14.          The specific outcome/implemenation indicators linked to each of the major project
objectives, are as folows: (a) for implementation of energy sector strategies and policies-the
progress in demonopolization and privatzation of statowned enterprises; (b) for legal and regulaory
reform-he submission to Congress of the relevant laws and the issunce of the relevan regulations;
and (c) for institutional strengthening-the capability of MEM to recruit qualified staff and to
adeqty perform all tasks, including those currently carried out by consultants. Over the longer
term, key sectoral performance indicators would be monitored, including adequacy of supplies,
evironmenta sustainability of operations, and revenues, costs, and staffing of the entprises.
15.          Projec Do ci. The project consists of the following components (see Annex 1
for the detailed project description and summary TORs):
(a)    OverallEnergy: X() evaluation and development of an integrated Energy Sector
Strate; and OiI) institutional strengthening of CONERG.



-4 -
(b)   Electig: (i) comletion of the reglatory framework and reform implemenion at
sector udlities; (ii) design of an energy managem  system for the Central-Northem
System; (iii) Istitutonal strenghing of the General Electrieitty Directorate (DGE);
(iV) institutional strengthenring of the Electicity Tariff Commission (CTE); and (v)
tariff Implementation.
(c)    Hyfltcadaoot : (i) completion of the legal and regulatory framework; (i) institutional
strengthening of the General Hydrocarbons Directorate (DIGH); and (iii) petroleum
exploration and exploitation promotion through the design and development of a data
bank and establishment of Peru-Petrol, S.A., us the entity in charge of these
functions.
(d)   M:Ig (i) execution of a mining promotion progrrm under the Vice-Ministry of
Miig; (ii) creion of the Mining Information System under the General Miming
Directorate (DGM); and (iii) development of a cadastral/concession system through
the formation of the Mining Registry and procedures to process mining concessions.
(e)    Emionment: (i) policy fomlation and implementaion; (Hi) institutional
strengthening of the General Directorate on Environmental Matters (Direccion General
de Asuntos AmbientrAes, DGAA); vii) environmental management and mitigation of
energy and mining projects; and (v) sectoral asessment studies.
16.          Proiect Cost and Pa ing. The total estimated cost of the project (Schedule A) is
US$17.5 million, of which US$2.2 million are physical and price contingencies, US$0.2 million is
the expense of the project coordinating unit and US$0.4 million UNDP's adminison fee. ITe
foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at US$13.1 million. The Bank, through this
loan, will finance US$11.8 million, the Japanese Grant Facilities for Energy and Mining/Environment
will finanoe US$0.8 million and US$2.2 million, respectively, while the local contribution will be
US$2.7 million, primarily consisting of counterpart staff and office support. The local share of the
finacing will come from budgetary resources of MEM and selfgenerated fur4s of its agencies.
Asuaces have been obtained from the Government that the fumds required to cover the local
coributio will be made available to MEM. ITe fiancing plan is set out in Schedule A. All
contracts will be individually and sepaatey financed by the funding institutions, rather than cost-
hared, for administrative simplicity.
17.          Proect Ipementon.  he project will be managed by MEM. The Minstry will
be assisted by a Project Coodination Unit, to be financed under the Project, comprised of a principal
coordinatr and one sectoral coordinator each for the electricity, hydrocarbons, mining, and
envionment-related componenis of the project. The principal coordinator has already been appointed
by the Ministry. The relevant sectoral coordinators of the Unit would initially be employed full-ime,
but they would be gradually replaced by MEM higher-level staff as project implementation advances.
n addition, he project includes the financing of a limited number of short-term specialists o advise
the Govenm   In institutional and policy reform andlor participate in sector policy evaluations. All
reports and re   n ons ofthe consultants engaged to assist in the execution of the project will
be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments. Ihe total involvement of individual national
speciaists will be less than ten person-years.
18.          Each MEM organizational unit or autonomous agency will have primary responsibility
for preparing terms of reference and short lists, and selecdng consultants, subject to approval by the
Project Coordination Unit and Bank no-objection. All conslta  financed by the Bank will be
selected and hired in accordace with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. For consulting



-5--
contracts fanced by other sources under the project, the Bank wll review the tems of reference.
Draft opeatonal guidelines for the TA program, settng out the procedures and responsibilities, are
In Annex 4.
19.          The Government has proposed, and the Bank lac agreed, to use UNDP as the
adinisrte agency t ad         the contcs and payment under a management arrangement
satisfactory to the Bank. Its management fee of US$0.4 million will be financed from the proceeds of
the loan. UNDP will disburse directly to consultan  and will mainain supporting documenton on
file for review by Bank supenrision missions.
20.          1niromn  AMeX. lhe Project belongs to Eavironmental Cagory C and has
no adverse enviiromea impacts. It will Include Sector Enviromental Assessments and the
deveopment of sectoral eironmea guidelines for energy and mining projects and, as such, will
support the Government's environmental ste.
21.          Erng=m Objecve Catey. The Project belongs to the category of Public and
Private Sector Development.
22.                    . Methods for prouremen and disbursemens are shown in Schedule B.
Procrement of goods to be ficed wivth proceeds from the loan would foUlow procedures in
accordance with Bank Guidelnes fo procurement. Couting services totaling about US$10 million
for the cont       of fim  to carry out secoral, institudonal ad management studies under the
varous components of the project, and of individual consultants for the strengthening of MEM and
the operaions of the Project Co nating Unit, would be in accordace with Bank Guidelines for the
use of consultants. Procurement of computng, communications, and ancillary equipment for the
mpleentaion of the energy management system, hydrocarbons data bank, mining information
system, and the general strengthening of MEM units, for an esmated amount of about US$1.1
million would be procured through Limited Intrnonal Bidding (lU) because of the specialized
nate of such equipment. An estated US$0.3 million of the loan proceeds would be used for the
reimbursement of training expenses such as tuition fees and travel expenses for courses and seminans
in accorjance with a plan to be previously approved by the Bank, and for fees of Wdividual
consultants acceptable to the Bank. UNDP's administrative expenses (US$0.4 million) would be paid
with proceeds from the loan directly to UNDP. Prior review of documenion and procuement
decisions wil be required for all procurement including the proposed UNDP management service
agreeme.
23.          Dibumen   MEM will request disbursements and submit these requests through
the Project Coordinating Unit to UNDP for processing. UNDP will disburse payments out of its own
resources directly to consultants. The applicator for withdrawal requests submitted by the Borrower
of eligible expenditures made under the Bank Loan to UNDP will be in amounts of about
US$500,000. For all contracts requiring Bank's prior review, UNDP will submit full documentation.
Since the project is largely composed of short-term technical assistance, disbursements would be made
over a four-year period, which is shortar than the average disburement profile for technical
assistance projects in the Latn America and the Caribbean Region. Retroactive financing not to
exceed US$1.1 million (i.e., about 10% of the loan amount) would be applied to finance eligible
expenditures made after December 31, 1992. The closing date of the proposed Loan would be
December 31, 1997.
24.          Accunts ad Audi. UNDP will maintain separate accounts for receipt of project
finds and payments for all project activities. UNDP accounts and statements of expenditures, both of
the Coordinating Unit and of UNDP, would be audited each year by auditors acceptable to the Bank



-6-
in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines. The audited reports would be submitted to the
Bank not later than four monuis after the close of its fiscal year.
25.             s    AgMd. During negotiations, agreement was obtaned on: (a) the TA to be
financed under the Loan, and the financing plan (Schedule A); (b) a project description and an action
plan on all project components, including a cooperation agreement between the rGAA and a
specialized agenq for the purpose of carying out the Eavironmcntal Protection Plan (Annex 1);
(c) operational guidelines for loan administration and cansultant hiring, conracting and supervision
(Annex 4); (d) model procurement documents and UNDP/Government project documents
(Annex 5); the latter will provide the basis for UNDP to administer contracts and disbursements
under the loan; (e) TORs for consulting assistance to prepare/implement the project cotaponents; (t)
submission of an annual forecast of the sources and uses of funds, and a semi-annual report on the
results of the program; (g) a semi-annual review of the implementation timetable; (h) a mid term
review to realign project resources to the evolving needs of . nrogram; (I) submission of all renorts
and recommendations of the consultants engaged to assist in tht execution of the Project; 0)
submission of an annual exteral audit report of the project accounts.
26.          Conditions of effectiveness will be (a) the issuance of operational guidelines, as
agreed between the Bank and the Government, to MEM's organizational units and autonomous
agencies, and (b) the signature of a project administration agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between UNDP and the Governmezit.
27.          Conditions of disbursement for consultants' services in each of the areas of electricity,
hydrocarbns, mining and environment, will be the appointment of the project unit's relevant
specialist.
28.          Benefits. Te proposed loan would assist the Government in the implementation of
legal/regulatory reforms and the strengthening of public institutions, which would improve efficiency
and attract private Investors to the energy and mining sectors. Economic pricing of electricity and
petroleum products would eliminate the financial burden that these sectors pose to the Government by
allowing these sectors to fund their own investment needs, and would reduce energy waste and
pollution. Sector efficiency woud be further enhanced through increased private participation, and
scaling-down of government intervention which would be limited to market-based regulation.
Environmental monitoring and management of energy-related and mining operations would be much
improved.
29.          Rigka. Because of its nature, the project poses no significant tedhnical risks.
However, the implenentation of the broad range of institutional and policy reforms that It is designed
to support greatly depends on congressional and popular support, the availability of competent
technical staff in the public administration, and the outcome of the ongoing efforts to reestablish
physical securt in the country. First, opponents of the Govermnent's reform and privatization
policies are likely to be critical of the policy goals of the operation. 'Te new Congress may insist on
reconsidering the mining and electricity laws enacted by the Government as decree laws, and its
consideration of the draft hydrocarbons law may entail a delay in enacting this law. Second, the
Government lacks experienced staff to regulate public utilities and the regulatory framework is still in
an inception stage. hwus, the sustainability of the institutional strengthening program will depend to a
great extent on overall civil service reform, especially as it relates to salary levels. Third, the ability
to attract well qualified consultants, and the future participation of private investors in the energy and
mining sectors would be affected if teorist activities do not abate.



-7 -
30.          These risks will be mitigated substantially through training (fiunded by the loan) and a
public information camaign that the Government is undertaldng. By and large, the risks outside the
control of Governent are expected to be offset by the significant potential benefits of the reform
process, which is adready under way. To avert political risk, the Govement   moving as quickly
as possible to make the reform process irreversible. It will also launch a public reladons campaign on
the advantages of te refonr, and continue to advance with Its regulatory reform and privtizatio
process to give positive signs to national and intenaional investors. 7Te Government Is aware of
the need to include, within its overall institudonal strengthening, civil service regulations which allow
the hiring of well-experienced and qualified personnel, and it intends to take the necessary steps into
this direction. Government performance under the economic stabilization and adjustment program has
been excellent, reflecting a strong commitment to its goais.
31.          RoeMdadon. I am satsfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve U.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 12, 1993



| S"8= i  081 W lEoi §  f A bt   s§    i 8
S W"t SaSESE Bt E     Wot aBgg     ol
~~e  



-9-
SCHEDULE B
ENFRGY AND XMN          -ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
A. Procurement Method
Amount (US$ millions) and Procurement Methodse
Other    NBF       Total
Consulting Services w                                      9.8      3.0       12.8
(9.8)              (9.8)
Computing, Communications, and
Ancillary Equipment'                                       1.1     0.1        1.2
(1.1)              (1.1)
Training Expenses d                                        0.3      2.6        2.9
(0.3)              (0.3)
Consulting Services for the
Project Coordinating Unit wI                               0.2                0.2
(0.2)              (0.2)
UNDP's Administration Fee v                                0.4                 0.4
(0.4)              (0.4)
Total                                                  11.8    5.7        17.5
(11.8)             (11.8)
ai Figures in Parenthesis are amounts financed by the proposed Bank loan.
b/ Conacting of consulting firms and individual consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
b/ Expenditures acceptable to the Bank to be reimbursed.
c/ Limited Intwnational Bidding.
NBF: Non-Bank Financed
B. Disbursements
Category                         Amount              Percentage of Expenditure to be
(USS million)             ed  with Proceeds frnm the 
Consulting Services                   10.0                100% of expenditures
Equipment and Materals                 1.1                100% of foreign expenditures
Reimbursement Expenses for
Training Program                      0.3                100% of expenditures
UNDP Administration Fees               0.4                100% of expenditures



- 10 -
SCHEDULE c
PERI
ENERGY AND MOMW( TE-}SAL ASgSITANCE: LOAN   I
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Tume taken to prepare:                  Seven Months
(b) Prepared by:                            Ministry of Energy and Mining and CTE, with
Bank Assistance
(c) Appraisa mission departure:             December 1992
(d) Negotiations:                           April 1993
(e) Planned date of effectiveness:         June 1993
(f) List of relevt PCRs and PARs:          Fifth Power Project (Loan 1215-PE) - Project
Completion Report
Petroleum Production Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 1806-PE) - Performance Audit Report
Petroleum Refineries Engineering Project (Loan
2117-PE) - Project Completion Report
Petroleum Production Enhancement Project (Loan
2195-PE) - Project Completion Report



- 11 -
Schedul D
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATlONS IN PERU
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1993)
Amount less
Lgua XN      z     Bor              lPme                         Cancellation    Undisb
(USS mifllon)
Sixty Two (62) Loans fuly disbursed                                 1801.69
of which Program Loan 1
*1693     1979      Peru           PrOgram Loan
3489      1992      Peru          Financial Sector Adjustment       400.00          100.00
3540'   1993        Peru          Privadzadon T. A.                  I=              30.00
TOTAL                                          2231.69
of which has been rep aid
Total now outstanding                         1359.00
Amount sold             18.31
of which has been repaid
Total now held by Bank                         1340.
Total undisbursed
* SECAL, SAL or Program Loan
11 Apprv& during FY79
2/ Not yet signed
NOTE:    The stats of th projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all BankflDA financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circued to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.                                              -



- 12 -
&hodute D
hagp 2 of 2
. VIAM l OF IFEC JINVEMI
(As of Match 31, 1993)
_--YUSS Million_
Di         Bower                      nuo of Business Eai                         t fAb 
1979183186190     Bucavntur           Meal Ore Mning                    6.00        2.97        8.97
1986              CARISA              Non-Feroas Oto Mining             6.00        0.50        6.50
1962              Cemento Andino      Cement Lime & Plaster             2.46        0.20        2.66
1982              Coabuha             Electric Light & Power            4.50                    4.50
1975              Poru Copper         Non-Ferrous Ore Mining           15.00        -          15.00
1960              Durisol             Fabric Metl Products              0.30        -           0.30
1960162           Fedrtlizt           Ferizrs & Pestcides               4.09        -           4.0K
1960              Luton               Non-Motalic Minal PR              0.28        -           0.28
1985              Minera Regina       Non-Ferrous Oro Mining            6.08        0.24       6.32
1986              Orcopampa           Non-Ferrous Ore Mining            9.00        -           9.00
1964/67           Pacasmayo           Cement Lime & Plaster             1.60        0.50        2.10
1983              Paln                Vegetable & Ani   Oil            15.00        -          15.00
1986              Podeoa              Non-Ferrous Ore Mining            3.30        -           3.30
1960              Rounidss            Fabinc Met Prducts                0.25        -           0.25.
1980/85           SIMSA               Non-Feous Ote Minig               6.70        0.50        7.20
1982/92           SOGEWESE            Lasing Companies                 13.00        1.S7       14.S7
Total GCs commitment                                 93.56       6.47      100.03
Less Cancellatons, Terminations
sad Sae                                                                    izi8
Total Commitmn  now held by IFC                      9.02        3.70       12.82
Total Uudisbursed                                      0          .0 



- 13 -
PERU
ENERGY AND MNING TECICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Tlechnical Annee
Annex 1            Detaile Project Description
Annex 2            Status of Sectoral Policies and Regulatory Reforms
Annex 3            Summary of Lessons of Bank/Internatonal Experience
Annex 4            Operational Guidelines for Technical Assistance Loan
Annex 5            Draft Loan Administration Agreement Between the
Government of Peru and UNDP
Annex 6            Implementation Tmetable



-14-                                 ANNEX 1
ERU
ENMRGY AND  =NING IEHNiCAL AS$S,STANI  LOAN
DErAILED PROJECr DESCRIPTION
OVERALL ENERGY
Badcground
1.    With the ransformation of Peru's energy sector to a market-based and largely privately owned
system, the focus of the Governet's responsibilities and functions shifts, from being the principal
producer and investor towards designing strategies and formulating and implementing policies.
Traditiondly, these stategic and policy fimctions have not been carried out satisfactorily, largely because
of the instituional weaknesses at the Ministry of Energy and Mines, especially at the National Esergy
Council (Consejo Nacional de Energfa CONERG) charged with saegy formulation and policy advice
in the energy sector. CONERG does not have the analytical capabilities required to carry out these
fiUctions.  In view of the need for appropriate energy sStegies and policies following sector
tton, the Government has requested the Bank to provide technical assistance in preparing an
indicative energy strat  and for strengthening CONERG in its analytical and policy advisory finctions.
Energy Sector Strategy Evaluation
Objectves and Scope
2.    The Evaluation is to indicate a strategy to secure adequate energy supplies and efficient energy
use over the medium- and longer term that are environmentally sustainable. Specil emphasis wMl be
given to meeting the energy requirements of the rural population.
3.    The Evaluation comprises the following elements:
(a) Analyze energy requirements of the overall economy and of the principal energy-consuming
sectors and geographic regions: Medium- to longer term energy scenarios will be developed,
based on past trends and realistic assumptions concerning future overall economic and sectoral
growth, and population and income growth.
(b) Identify economically viable options to meet energy requirements adequately, at least cost, and
with the least possible impact on the environment: Both supply and demand options will be
evaluated, covering all major energy supplies both domestic and imported (i.e., crude oil and
petroleum products; natural gas; electricity; biomass; coal) and major sectors of energy demand.
This includes options for energy efficiency enhancement through conservation and substitution
and for energy demand management. The environmental Impact of these options will be an
important consideration. The evaluation of rural energy options will comprise both the sources
of supplies and principal activities of demand.



-15-                                 ANNEX 1
(c) Identify policy impacts and requirements: The Evaluation will analyze (1) on the supply side,
requirements to stimulate competition, liberalize markets, and enhance private ownership in the
energy sector, and (i) on the demand side, energy pricing, taxation and subsidization, and non-
pricing interventions to enhance energy efficiency.
(d) Identify institutional requirements: Following the legislative and regulatory reforms in the
electricity and hydrocabons sectors, institutional requirements in terms of responsibilities,
procedures, and resources will be evaluated, comprising CONERG, the General Directorates of
Electricity, Hydrocarbons, and Environmental Matters, and the Electricity Tariff Commission.
Results
4.    The Evaluation will formulate a consistent set of policies, specific measures, and projects
primarily to be implemented by the prvate sector, which ensure the economically optimal and
environmentally sustainable supply and use of energy. CONERG through its coordinating role in the
Evaluation will be strengthened as the Government's principal entity for preparing strategies and advising
on policies in the energy sector.
inplementation
S.    The Evaluation will be carried out by a team of international and national specialists. The task
coordinator-a senior professional with long-range experience in analyzing energy issues and formulating
energy strategies-will prepare detailed terms of reference and select the individual specialists. The
implementation period is estimated to take approximately 12 months including the preparation of the terms
of reference, team selection, analysis, and report preparation and review. The Evaluation is estimated
to require about 60 person-months and to cost about US$700,000.
Institutional Strengthening of CONERG
Objectives and Scope
6.    Consultant services to be provided to CONERG aim at identifying requirements and options for
CONERG's institutional strengthening, so that the entity can comply with its responsibilities to formulate
strategies and advise on policies in the energy sector.
7.    In the frst phase, the individual consultant - an international expert with at least ten years of
experience in managing and restructuring governmental advisory institutions in the energy field - will
provide the following services, as part of the Energy Sector Strategy Evaluation:
(a) Analyze (i) CONERG's current position within the Ministry of Energy and Mines, in regard to
its functions, organization, procedures, relationships with other entities of the Ministry and other
public and private sector entities, and (ii) resources available to CONERG;
(b) Determine to which degree CONERG has complied with its functions, and establish performance
criteria;
(c) Defilne CONERG's material and staff requirements for complying with its functions; and



-16-                                 ANNEX 1
(d) Recommnd a program of strengthening CONERG and adapting the entity to the new framework
of the energy sector.
S.    As member of the Energy Strategy Evaluation team, the specialist would define the approach and
procedures for undertaking the institutional analysis of the Energy Strategy Evaluation (paras. 24).
ImplementaIo
9.    The services under Phase I are estimaed to take about two months. Based on the consultant's
report, the Bank will seek agreement with the Government on specific measures ensuring CONERG's
institutional strengthening. These measures will be implemented during Phase 2. Both phases of the
activity are esmated to be carried out intermittently over a period of 15 months, at a cost of
US$200,000.
ELECRICrTY
Badkground
10.   The institudonal changes following the 1992 Law on Electricity Concessions will result in free
conracing between producers and distributors/consumers, creation of a supply pool (Comite de
Operacion Economica del Sistema Interconectado; COES) and guidepost regulation of electricity pricing.
In order to ensure the proper functioning of the new system, It is necessary to reinforce its regulatory
firamework. The concomitant economic/financal and technical regulations for system operation need to
be prepared, including tariff setting, valuation criteria for contacts, granting of concessions, technical
safety, settlement of disputes, and monitoring of compliance by the electricity enterprises with their new
obligations. Economic reguation related to tariffs and valuation issues wfll be the responsibility of the
eclricity Tarifi Commission (Comision de Tarifas Eldctricas; CTh  whereas MEM's General
Eletricity Direcrate (DGE) wil be responsible for granting concessions, approving contas, and for
tenical regulation.
11.   The project will therefbre provide technical assistance to (a) CTE for contract and tariff
regulation and (b) DGE for institutional strengthening, through the services of weil-qualified consultants
either national or intenational for the preparation of implementation schemes.
Completlon of Regulatory Framework and Reform Inplementation
12.   Significant advances have been made in the preparation of the legal and regulatory framework
for electricity through financing from the Japanese Grant Facility for Energy. However, some
adjustments and refinements are required especially in the areas of detailed regulation and specific
guidelines for the operation of the sector under the new legal framework, including environmental
guidelines. This component of the project intends to fill that void.
13.   Albeit the corporate aspects of the reform are the responsibility of the Privatization Committee
(COPRI), MEM will follow closely the implementation of the reform program in the electricity utilities
in particular with regard to urgently needed investments while the transition from the old to the new
system takes place. This component will finance the consultant services to the Vice-Ministry of Energy
of one professional to advise the Government for the period of one year.



-17-                                 ANNEX 1
Energy Mangement System (EMS)
Background
14.   As the outcome of the restrcturing of the electricity sector, in the Central-Northern
Interconnected System (SICN) will be transformed into: (i) several generation companies, (-i) one
transmission company (IC), and (iii) several distribution companies. Electroperu currently owns the
trunk transmission system, four hydro plants (MantaroJRestitucion, Cahua, Canon del Pato,
Carhuaquero) and small thermal plants C(rujillo, Chimbote, Chiclayo and Plura) and is expected to be
split Into a number of generation companies and one transmission company. Electrolima, owner of
several hydroplants near Lima (Huinco, Callahuanca, Moyopampa, Huanpani, and Matucana), a
thermal plant (Santa Rosa), some transmission facilities in the greater Lima area, and the Lima
distibution system, is expected to be split Into one or more generation companies, transfer its
transmission facilities to the TC and form one or more distribution companies.
15. The 1992 Electricity Law foresees the creation of a Committee for the Economic Operation
(COES) for each interconnected system, to be formed by all major generators Currently there are
three systems (i.e. SICN, the South-Western and the South-Eastern systems; the latter two are likely
to be interconnected to form the Southern system). It is recommended (a) to establish uniform by-
laws and rules for all systems, in preparation for integrating them into a future unified system, and
(b) to create one COES, for each system (for SICN and the Southern system). This would permit to
apply common rules and methodologies, and similar system programming and operating models.
RequIrments, Objectives, and Scope
16.   Implementing of the new regulatory framework entails the need to optimize system
operations, register energy transactions among the participants (the transmission company and many
generators), compute short-term energy and power contractual charges and marginal costs, as well as
functions reated to system security of supply and record keeping of the wheeling contracts. A two-
tier system would be the best way to structure the energy transactions and control: the highest level
would correspond to a central Energy Management System (EMS), whereas second-level centers
would be operated by the generating companies. Ihe EMS would be-at least initially-associated to
the TC and must handle two different kinds of operations; i.e., (A) supervising and controlling the
generation and transmission network which is required to comply with security of supply and to
optimize system operations, and (ii) registering energy transactions for the correspondiA& COES.
Functions and responsibilities of the COES require easy and periodic access to information of the
EMS but do not require to be on-line with it.
17.   To ensure the efficient and reliable operation of the grid, the future transmission company
needs an effilcient Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, approprie software,
and reliable communications facilities to provide for an adequate security of supply and interphase
equipment to efflciently transfer information to the COES. The design of an energy management
systm for the Central Northern Interconnected System is under the responsibility of Electroperu and
Electrolima.



- 18 -                               ANNEX I
Edsfting Dispatch Faciidies
18.   Electroperu's current dispatch facilities are inadequate for handling the operation of the SICN.
Ihe entity has prepared a pre-feasibility study for the implementation of a modern dispatch center and
of a building to house it. The location is adequate to serve the SICN and the space could easily house
the EMS' facilkies. However, the dispatch center has been conceived under the concept of a
verticaly integrated utility, while the refbrmed sector is based on a clear separation of entities
responsible for generation, transmission, and distribution.
19.   Electrolima's relatively modem dispatch center is also conceived for an independent,
veraly integrated utility. Thus, because of the proposed splitting of the company in a number of
generation and distribution companies, changes must be made to separate the functions that
correspond to generation only -which would be linked to the EMS- from the supervisory functions
that correspond to the distribution facilities.
20. Financing of the EMS is justified because of the need to ensure reliable system operation for
the TC and implement effective support for the functions established in the proposed legal and
regulatory framework. Bank participation is essential to ensure that the philosophy and procedures of
energy transactons of the proposed law and regulations (in regard to tariffs, wheeling, and COBS)
are duly reflected in the design of the new EMS. The proposed operation would finance the final
desig and preparaion of bidding documents by specialized international consultants including the
adatation of Electrolima's dispatch facilities as well as the acquisition of computer equipment for
iplementing a center for electricity transactions in the SICN.
Implementaion
21.   The implemention period of the EMS is estimated at about 40 months, of which about 20
months are needed for the design and bidding process. Computer facilities for the .OLS (which are
needed as soon as the COES for the SICN is established) could be in place in about. v months. The
sector reforms will be mostly implemented before the EMS is completed. Since the sector must rely
on existing facilities for managing the SICN under the revised regulatory framework for some time to
come, the consultants' services include a review of the existing facilities and recommendations on
how the system could be operated during the transition period.
22.   The EMS will be part of the transmision company expected to evolve from Electoperu, but
by absorbing Electrolima's transmission facilities. Electroperu, as the major operator of transmission
facilities, is In a position to implement the project and it should be entrusted with the project
execution. Electrolimna would implement the transformation of its Dispatch Center. It is technically
capable of doing so.
StrengtheinJg of the General Directorate of Electricity
Objectves and Scope
23.   Ihe objectve of this project component is to equip DOE for effecive arms-length regulation
of the electricity sector, wfihin the new legal/regulatory and institional framework, to ensure
efficient sector operations.



-19-                                  ANNEX 1
24.   The following specific tasks will be carried out:
(a) Preparar model contracts for granting concessions which ensure least-cost supply of electricity,
fina&i4al viability of operations, and efficient use of the country's energy resources;
(b) Recommend methods and instruments for monitoring and supervision to ensure efficient, safe,
and reliable sector operations, and assist in implementing the corresponding monitoring and
supervision;
(c) Prepare a system of registration of, and data on, concessions and authorizations for electricity
generation for installed capacities exceeding 500kW, and assist in its implementation; and
(d) Recommend an organiational structure for DOE, in accordance with its functions as defined
in the 1992 Electricity Law, and prepare a training program for DGE staff.
JmplementF'lOn
25.   The project component will be carried out in two phases. During Phase 1 (diagnostic phase)
extending over approximately three months, the consultant will analyze the implications of new
legal/regulatory framework on sector administration and prepare tems of reference for a detailed
assessment of the options to deal with these implications.
26.   Under Phase 2 (implementation phase) extending over 15 months, the following tasks wil be
carried out:
(a) Detailed assessment of the requirements for monitoring and supervision of the contractual
obligations of the concession holders;
(b) Preparation of selection criteria for engaging outside entities to carry out monitoring and
supervision tasks, including reporting requirements for these entities; and
(c) Preparation of an organizational structure and training program for DGE, and initiation of
trainng for DGE staff.
27.   'Te services of a consultant with at least 15 years of international experience are required for
this activity. Ihe costs of this activity are preliminarily estimated at US$250,000.
Strengthenlng of the Electridty Tariff Commission
Objectves, Scope, and Expected Results
28.   A series of studies, to be carried out by a qualified consulting firm, is to assist in preparing
the regulatory framework that Is required for effective monitoring and supervision of operations in the
reformed electricity sector.
29.   The studies will address (a) regulation of the power pool (COES), economic load dispatch,
and geneaion costs, (b) transmission costs and node prices, and (c) value-added and replacement



-20-                                  ANNEX 1
values in the distribution system. The studies will assist in (a) organizing COES so as to ensure
reliable and leasw-cost generation and distribution, based on marginal costs for instatneous
operations as well as for operations over the next 24-48 months; (b) identifying ransfer nodes in the
transmission system and corresponding transmission losses and costs, and determining for each
transfer node the capacity and energy charges for transactions between generen and distribution
enterprises; (c) establishing the costs of electricity distribution for model eneprises and for typical
areas, establishing a tariff structure for distribution based on economic costs of generation,
transmission, and distribution, and simuIating the results of applying these tariffs to distribution
enterprises.
30.   The following specific tasks will be carried out:
(a) Economic load dispatch and generation costs: Establish reguations for the operation of the
power pool; develop a simulation model for operation and dispatch of the interconnected
systems, and evaluate the intermediate results following about two months of operating the
pool; develop a mathematical model to establish the capacity and firm energy requirements of
each generating plant for economic dispatch.
(b) Transmission costs and node prices: Define the trunk transmission network and transfer nodes
for each integrted system; analyze load flows, determine marginal capacity and energy losses
and corresponding penalty factors for each transfer node, as a basis for establishing node
prices; and determine replacement values, transmission costs, and wheeling charges for the
trunk transmission and subtransmission systems, based on maginal energy costs, for a period
of 24-48 months.
(c) Distrbution costs for typical areas and tariffs for final consumers: Determine the fixed costs
associated with serving final users, standard costs of capacity related to investment,
operations, and maintenance in the distribution system, and average costs of energy losses (at
different voltage levels, for capacity and energy); determine replacement costs of installations
in the distribution systems; prepare tarff structures refleting the economic costs of supply at
different voltage levels and a methodology for their application (over a four-year period); and
simulate the results for the distribution enterprises of applying the tariff options, with the aim
to estimate the economic rAturn "or the distribution enterprises in their entirety, as a basis for
tariff adjustments as appropriate.
Implementation
31.   The studies will be carried out during a period of six months, under the direct supervision of
CTE. The costs of the studies are estimated at US$441,000, of which US$256,000 will be financed
through the Japanese Grant Facility administered by the Bank.



-21-                                ANNEX 1
HYDROCARBONS
Baqcground
32.   Since late 1990, the Government has received Bank assistance in developing programs for
deregulating petroleum markets and privatizing the petoleum products storage depots and in
preparing a new hydrocarbons law. In addition, Bank staff have advised the Governmen's
privatizatdon committee (COPRI) on the privadzaton of Petroperu's subsidiaries. The Government
has requested further technical assistance from the Bank in strengthening the policy and regulatory
functions of MEM to manage in the future a largely privatized hydrocarbons sector. The Government
is concerned that environmental problems associated with petroleum operations have not been
adequately handled. While environmental guidelines have been issued, there is a danger these may be
difficult to be implemented given their lack of operational applicability and lack of resources of the
implementing agency. The Government, therefore, wants to ensure the appropriate implementation
of, and compliance with, environmental guidelines in the field.
Objectives and Scope
33.   The main objective of the Project's hydrocarbons component is to assist the Government in
the implementation of its hydrocarbons sector strategy, aimed at deregulating the market,
implementing appropriate legal and regulatory reforms, and privatizing Petroperu and its subsidiaries.
34.   The hydrocarbons component comprises three main activities as well as the financng of
hardware and software:
(a) Assist MEM to complete the new hydrocarbons legLslation, follow up on its review by
interested parties, and support its enactment by the national Congress;
(b) Strengthen the capacity of the Vice Ministry of Energy (VME) to (i) define sector strategies,
(Ii) implement, supervise, and coordinate sector policies, (iii) coordinate with other
government agencies, and (iv) promote investments by the private sector. This requires the
following:
(i)   strengten the capacity of the General Directorate of Hydrocarbons (DGH) to establish
norms and standards that are necessary for an efficient functioning of the sector;
provide training; support qualified technical staff; and implement systems to facilitate
and make DGH more service-oriented and efficient;
(ii)   strengthen the role of VME in developing Peru's strategy in promoting and attracting
private sector investments in exploration/development. This strategy will be carried
out by an autonomous and self-financing entity operating under private company law,
Peru-Petro S.A., which will take over the role until now being played by Petropera.
Peru-Petro will be an exploration data marketing and promoting entity and will be in
charge of setting up the exploration data bank and making it available to all interested
companies, as well as carrying out exploration studies to upgrade data quality and
promoting them to potential investors. Peru-Petro will represent the Government in
negotiations for awarding exploration contracts or concessions, and will be responslble



-22-                                 ANNEX I
for ensuring compliance with contract commitments by the companies (in regard to
their investment commitments and payments of the government share In the contracts).
These fimctions would be primarily carried out by private subcontractors on behalf
and for the account of Peru-Petro. The Project component will provide assistance to
review the orgaization, staffing, training and the development of management
systems that will be required by Peru-Petro to become a serviceoriented and efficient
entity;
(ii)   strengthen the capacity of VME to develop environmental guidelines for
hydrocarbons-related operations, and ensure that VME has the staffing, training,
technical assistance, and computer systems to carry out its environmental supervisory
capacity diligenty and efficiently; and provide training and consultant support to
MEM's General Directorate of Environmental Affairs (DGAA); and
(c) Provide of computer hardware and software systems for Peru-Petro and DGH to strengthen
their ability to implement and supervise operations.
Impl eme nt affon
35.   MEM wil be responsible for project implementation, assisted by a project unit coordinator
and hydrocarbons sector specialist to be specifically recruited to perform this function. The
execution of the different activities requires the provision of external consultants.
36.   Mhe sector reforms as planned by the Government will be completed well before EMTAL Is
filly implemented. The implementation period is estimated at about 36 months. Studies required to
evaluate how VME could be strengthened before a new organization and systems are put In place for
DGH and Peru-Petro are expected to take six months. Training and staffing assistance for DGH and
Peru-Petro cover a period of 24 months.
37.   Project Sustainability. To ensure that activities required for continued support of sectoral
development are carried out after project completion, strong emphasis will be placed on institution
building, human resource development, and a'equate funding of the sector institutions' operating
costs. Peru-Petro will be an autonomous self-financing entity whose resources will be raised through
fees on petroleum operations and the sale of exploration data. Provision is made in the Project
component for support by consultants in the initial phase of operations and training both on-the-job
and outside, as an important element of project sustainability.
MINING
Objectives and Scope
38.   In implementing the Government's mining strategy, it should be possible to carry out the
basic institutional restructuring within a period of about 12 months, but it will take longer to complete
the transformation into well-functioning new entities. The mining component of the Project aims at



-23 -                                ANNEX I
supporting sectoral reform through well-focused technical assistance. The component comprises the
following activities:
1. National Mining Information System
2. Mining Promotion
3. Strengthening of Mining Institutions
(a) Inplementation of new Mining Cadastral Concession System
(b) Completion of the regulatory framework and Implementation of the mining sector reforms
including those related to the environmental protection
Each Project component will have its base in one particular state institution. In addition to achieving
their operational objectives, the Project components wiUl serve to strengthen their host institution.
39.   The expenditure categories are as follows:
- Investment in equipment at the different organizations required for their proper functioning.
-  Training of personnel.
- Salaries for outside specialists over a fixed period, during which their involvement will be
phased out.
40.   Proiect OrganSion. According to the experience gained in other countries with similar
projects, the task of selecting, negotiating, and coordinating technical assistance is best fulfilled with
the support of a specific Project Coordination Unit. A number of tasks such as setting up and
operating the mining cadastral systems, will be carried out with significant private sector
participation.
41.   Consultancy Assistane . The main responsibility of consultants, either national or
international will be to ensure that the project is carried out in accordance with the project objectives,
and to ensure that the project is well-integrated in the work of the institution.
42.   Training. An important element of the execution of the Project's mining-related components
is training of local personnel. Training has the objective that project activities would continue after
the project is formally completed and the consultants have left. As a complement to in-service
training, more formal training would provide up-dating and/or deepening of previously received
training. Such training should preferably take the form of specialized courses (1-3 weeks) or
workshops in Peru, organized by consultants of recognized international experience within specific
fields. The participation in professional seminars in Peru and abroad is also considered. The exact
needs will be defined in the course of the program implementation.
linplementation
43.   Implementation varies between three and four years, depending on the specific project
component. While most of the support to the institutions will be medium-term in nature, the other
components are planned to be carried out over a shorter period. The institutional strengthening
program includes three main cost components, viz. (i) investment costs for complementary equipment



-24-                                 ANNEX I
of the institutions, (11) operational costs related to implementadon of the components, including the
cost of consultants over a fixed period, and fiii) training costs. The latter cover the programs to be
developed as resutt of the specific projects (participation in seminars, organization of workshops,
etc.). The cost of the Project's mining component is estimated at US$3.8 millon.
ENVIRONMENT
44.   The four main environmental components of the Project would be implemented over a four-
year period.
Strengthening of the Policy/Regulatory Frmework
45.   In light of major enviromnental policy deficiencies, funding will be provided in four main
areas:
(a) Review, streamline, and consolidate existing fragmented regulations into a consistent
framework. Regulations will be enacted for areas not covered hitherto (e.g., areas of
environmental liability);
(b) Development of eavironmental operating guidelines for specific activities;
(c) Development of (i) airlwaterlsoils discharge emission standards and (ii) criteria for key
indicators (e.g., SQ, NO,. heavy metals, BOD, COD); and
(d) Organization of workshops and seminars to disseminate the relevant policy and regulatory
Information to the concemed industries and government departments.
anstitutional Strhening of the General Diredorate of Environmental Matters
46.   DGAA, established in 1991 within MEM, is to address environmental problems from
minig/energy sectoral activities. DGAA faces typical start-up problems, including insufficient
funding, inadequate infrastructure and logistics, and manpower and skills constraints. To alleviate
DGAA constraints, the project provides technical assistance in (a) institutional and organizational
strengthening; (b) human resource development/training; and (c) logistics support. Funds will be
provided for DGAAWs strengthening and restructuring in a manner to enhance its efficiency at
carrying out environment planning, inter-sectoral coordination, and environmental management.
The Project component supports institutional development through staff training and improved
environmental management structures, backed by appropriate information systems, and through
strengthening the inter-and intra-departmental linkages with the various related agencies.
47.   Training. DGAA staff will be trained in key environmental management skills. These
include: enviromnental Impact assessments and environmental auditing; data base development and
management; development of environmentl information systems and library services; and
development of environmental education and awareness programs. Short-term consultants recruited
both nationally and internationally will assist with this training effort. Specialized training (both local
and overseas) will support the continuing development of local capabilities in these fields. Funds



-25 -                               ANNEX 1
would also be available for the purchase of computers, vehicles, office equipment and office
furniture.
Development of Environmental Management and Environmental Mitigation
43.   Enviromnental AssesTh Procedu. Ibis Project component would ensure that
environmental considerations are fully integrated into sectoral development plans, through addressing
them ad initio, rather than ex-post through formulation and implementation of appropriate EIA
screening procedures. Funding will be provided (a) for training of DGAA staff in EIA evaluations,
and (b) environmental audits and assessments to assist DGAA to manage its operations.
49.       iro_ n  On itoring. A pilot project will support the monitoring of
air/water/soils quality in specific "hot spots" (e.g., La Oroya). As DGAA does not have the requisite
laboratories and staff for sampling and analysis, nor would it have the comparative advantage of
doing so, it will enter into a cooperation arrangement with a specialized agency on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The project would finance (a) the purchase of air/water/solid
waste sampling equipment, and (b) associated training and field allowances. DGAA would be
responsible for the preparation and supervision of the program, but the specialized agency would be
responsible for the quality of the program. A Memorandum of Understanding will be concluded
between the specialized agency and DGAA/MEM prior to the commencement of this Project
component.
50.   EUnvom    InfTrmation Sy       This component includes:
(a) Environmental Quality Information, i.e., provision of environmental baseline data;
determination of the effectiveness of environmental protection and mitigation measures;
managing the information outputs from the environmental quality data; and developing
capabilities within MEM to predict environmental changes in a proactive rather than reactive
manner; and
(b) DGAA Library Services for cataloguing information and documents required for decision-
making.
51.   Educion and Awareness ProUmi. These efforts are aimed at DGAA, the industries, and
the general public. They will focus on environmental education, environmental management, policy
development, data management, and information services. Collaboration with NGOs will be sought,
such as INMADI (investigacidn Medio Ambiente Industrial), the Catholic University, and AMIDEP
(Asociaci6n Multidisciplinaria de Investigaci6n en Poblacidn). Funding would be provided for (a) ihe
design, production and distribution of printed materials and posters on environmental subjects,
including to local communities, and (b) workshops and seminars for the mining, energy and electricity
sectors.
52.   Strengthenini the Participation of Local and Native Communities. This includes (a)
developing public involvement workshops and forums in collaboration with INMADI and AMIDEP;
(b) designing and producing information materiats for viewing at education centers; (c) conducting a
socio-economic impact study to assess the changes in community/traditional lifestyles, and population



-26-                                 ANNEX 1
dynamics, brought about by sectoral development activities, with recommendations for
mplementaion by local and district governmens.
Sectoral Envirounental Assessments and Studies
53. In accordance with Bank requirements, two sectoral EAs (energy and mtiing) would be
caied out to evaluate and develop the policy framework necessary for optimizing sectoral
developments while minimzing environmental risks. As an outcome of these studies, action plans
would address the specific environmental issues pertaining to these sectors.
Project Benefits/Justification and Risks
54.   Bems and Jugification.The Project would support the Government's strategy for
environment sustainabiity as set out in the National Environmental Code. As its principal benefit,
the ProJect would (a) alleviate or slow down environmental degradation and the corresponding
Impacts on public health and ecosystems; (b) halt the decline in agricultural, fisheries, and other
economic productivities stemming from pollution; and (c) Improve the avaflability of information
required for decision-making, and improve the understanding of environmental management practices
applicable to Peru.
55.    1ia. These are associated with the effectiveness with which environmental management
systems can be implemented, given the serious lack of environmental skills and the innovative nature
of such a program in Peru. (Ihis is the Baek's first environmenal management activity in Peru).
Other risks relate to DGAA's ability to achieve the required levels of inter-sectoral coordination
between the relevant government agencies required for effective project implementation, and the
Government's ability to provide resources for the incremental and recurrent/operating costs for the
Project. Care has been taken to mitigate these risks through the training and institution building
components which would focus on strengthening DGAAs management and strengthening the inter-
and intra-institutional linkages. To ensure the effectiveness of the cooperative arrangement,
Memoranda of Understanding would be conchrAed between DGAA and ONERN and CEPIS, settng
out schedules and costs for providing agreed services. Project supervision would be closely linked to
the Project implementation schedule and would involve monitoring the critical indicators, with the
Project Coordination Unit to play a key role.



PERU
E3NERGY AND MI41G                 DUCHNCAL AS$1X$TANCE LOAN
Action Plan
(wincuTinglme Table and Implementat lndieators)
Activity and                                                                                     rimnmgrrargets            Responsble
ovemmeut Ojectives               Adivity Components               Expected Resultimpa                  (MonthYear)              Agency(ies)
Inteurated Enera State:      a) Prearion of deailed TORs, and               a  of a con_stent et  07/93 - 08/94                CONERGI Mistry
To ensue adeqwe energy    selection of evuation team             of states and policies, specific    TORs approved Sept. '93.  of Energy and
supplies and efficient ene                                       measures and projects primaily to    Evaluation team fielded  Mines (MEM)
use over the meium to long    (b) Evaluato of sragic opto  to    be implemented by the pnvae      Nov. '93
tenn, in line with the growing   ensure adequate energy supplis over   sector. This is to ensre
economy.                     the medium to longer term at least  econo ly optimal and             First draft report Mareb '94.
cost and minimum adver  impact on   eavironmtay susainable uppyg
the envitomeat.                    and use of energy.                Disussion with Goverment
and agreement on                                  N
(c) Iteraftiv analysis of initil rts                                 impl     aon of study
of evalation, with a view to adjusting                                 cmdations July '94.
policies.
Final report Aug. '94.



Activity and       I                              -imigarges                                                              Rer
Govemment Objectives             Acdvity    (p                    Expeced Re _/dlVaI                  (Monti/Yea)              AgeI__s)
onstiutional Strthenina of   (a) Assmet of CONBRG's             Eance CON°tO's                         -CONERGMEM
CONERG:                      position within MEM; evalution of    capacity to comply with its    Inception report Marc '94.
To coordinato the prepaion   its requirements (in terms of      responsibilities to f_nlate
of the energy sector strategy    functios, pocedues, ru s, etc)   strateg  and advise on policies ill    niuaiot of dbort-erm
Nd policies.                 to ass  tie rlevant gonm           the energy sector. MTis is abo to    co g services May '94.
entities m energy strategy and policy    be acived through CONERG's
analysis.                          paticipatin the evaluation of the  Ii1tion of tiing July '94
eegy secto strtg.)
(b) Implementiinn
through shodt-tem consulting
(c) Traning of CONERG staff in
stegy and policy analysis.
CornDiction of               (a) Prepartion of TORs for         (a) Preparation of regaons for    01/93 - 11193               Vieinsy  of
Leual/Resulatoq Framewoth   individual consultants that are to asist  new decty law, by-laws of   TORTs prqaed Apr.'93.        Eey   (VME)
and Reform Imementation:    in implemeting sectoral reforms.    organizational entities, and other  Norms and procedures
To ensure the                                                   norms and pt .edue                prepaed JuL'93.
comprehensiveness of te new   (b) Peparon of norms and                                            Restuing program
lega/rOegUIatory system and its  procedures to adapt enterpises to new   () Application of the concession  prepared OcL'93.
consistency with the         system of concessions.             pnciples tefered to in the 1992
Government's sectoral                                           Law of Electriy Comcessions.
objectives, through the      (c) Preparaton of program for the
completion and adequae       restrcturing of electicity nterpises.  (c) Functioning of the electricty
adoption of new regulations                                     sevices under the revised
regulaty fraework, and of the
process of unbundling utilities into
separ  genratio, trasmssion
and distibution activities.                            .  .



GJoveaut Objectives              Avity Components                 Expected ResultsAmpact             (MonDt/Year)             Agmeny(as)
Design of Ener               Desigi of energy mnagemet sysem   Optimizati  of oprati   on the    09M -1                       Ele06_96
Managacemt Svstem           facilities and acquisition of computer   Central-Nortiem Intercouneed  TORs for coudting services   El _oim
To improve system operaions   epupmnt for implmenting a ceter    System, hmough (i) ens g system   prard Sept '93
efficincy and reliability and    for electicity transctions in the  reliability, (ii)  istering electrity
permit electricity commercia    Central-Northem  1nerot        trasctios among the parcipants,   Contracing of consultants;
transactions under new      System.                             and (ii;) omptng sbort-erm      acquistion of equiptent
regtuatory fmework                                              energy and power con_tacta       Dec. '93.
exchanges and maginal coss.
Compli  of sdies
Dec. '95.
Institutioil                Diagnostic phase:                 (a) Develoet  of a set of         07/93 - 06/94               DGEAMEM
Strensthening of DoE:       Analysis of DE's cuurent position;    reo d s to meet                Diagnostic study prepaed
To ensmue adequate          definition of new functions, within  organizaional and resouc        Sept.'93.
implementation of DOE's     reformed sectr f ewk                reqreit.                         Statof imp
regulaty functions.         evuation of institutiond need to                                     Nov.'93.
carry out these funcions (i.e.                                      Complefio of      i
nommative and monitoring funons,                                    JUL'94
administration of conceosd);
prepare model conacts for grtig
concessions.
Implemetfltion phase:              () Establishment of a compett
(a) Implementation of              enity to supervi the qWlity of the
recommendations prepared in       service provided by the utilities,
diagnostic phase, in regard to: (i)  grnt concesso, and sette
mon     g and supetvision of servic   disputes.
quaity; (ii) registration and
authorization of concessions; (iii)  (c) To build up DOE for effective
resoluin of disputes; and (iv)     arms-length supervision of the
prepaing and maintiing a data      electicity sector, within the new
base.                              legal and institiod framewo.
(b) Tranng
| Tanff l a :               Evaluation of (a) economic load    (a) Prering the framwork          IlU%  113                   CTE
To estabIh a tariff syst     dipawh and geoeo costs,            required for effective billig and  Megl sdy
conistent with t  stipulations  (b)     ou costs, CO 4Weeling   supervision of eleicity trding.  completed Feb,'93.
of the Law of Electricity   charges, and node prices, and                                        Study completed & Semina-
Concessioo.                 (c) distribution costs and tariff for  (b)  ablis n of genaion,      Mar.'93.
final consumen                    transmission and distribution  Ms.   New tars irpltenrtd
May.'93



Acity a                                                                                          Irm_in,irars              R.sposib.le
Govenment Objectives             Activity Components              Epecte Results/Impact _             (Moaler)                  Agecy(ies)
Institutional StMntbenina of    (a) Adaptation of Clhs functions and   Streagtening ClTs technical  0793  - I/ c
£11;:                        organization to the Law of Electricity   capacity to aet tariffs in accordace    Adapto   of CTE's fution
To ensure adequae            concesdons.                         with the Law of Electricity      & orgnio; development
functioning of CM as                                             Concof infonai  sytems
reguatory entity.            (h) Dveopment of nomation                                            Sept.'93
sydtem, establihmnt of a data  nk                                    Evaluation of ex_
and a manage_et in&fomaion                                           Nav.'93
systemF
(c) Taining                                         _                  .. 
w



Activity and                                     ,                                                                      Resnsie
Government Objectives             ctivity Componts               Expected Resultmpact               (Maon ear)              Agency(ios)
Complet.;an of              Assi VMB in complting the          New hrc        s legislation and    OIM119Z(2.4              VME
Legal/Regulatory Prainmrk:   prepatory wodc on the new         reuatm.                          MIBM submson of dRft
To improve the opeations of   legisation and reguatons, bWld up                                 Law to Cons May '93
the hydrocab    sector.     oonem and follow up passge by
Coess.                                                              mnce of reguations
____ __ __ ___   Dec. '93     ,__
Institutinal Senen  of   (a) Define the new role and functons   (a) Etamnt ad Mast-up of the  710193      i                 VMEIDH; P.    -
PGH:                        of DGH and Peam-Petro in light of  new agencies eponble for.        New ageies estad            Petro
To strengthen the capacity to   new polic objectives and srat  in   (i) promotion and nego_ ation of the   Dec.'93.
implement, supevise, and    the sector.                        new bydrocabos exploration and
coordinate hydr  ons-                                          exploitation oontact, and (i)    First contat under new Law
rlatod policies.            (b) Defin the ogai ton staffing    supew'sw of        fiai          noad Ju'95.
and infmatin syems of the two     and tAzcal elements of
agencies.                         hydrocarbored activities.
(¢) Evaluat t  ech    sisumnce
reuiemes, incuding tenns of
refeence and tnmg needs of
agencis.
(d) Provide direct support of     (b) Preparation of ptofessials of    Consl.tants ele IaL'94.
peciaid contants to VME, DQH   both agencie for reparton and       Consultants assigms
and Peru-Petro in technical,      negotito of conts and            complded Jun.'96
administrae, and finani areas.    supervision of the cotatig fims.
(e) Trainig on tho job and thugh                                   Ting pogrm  itiated
winning aangement with utal                                        Jan.'94.
agecies in othe ountries.
Tining progrm  omplted
JUnL'96.



i. If II                           I
it  ii [}|t'§   
Ii.             [li           _
s1 t [ | £41 K :1:$!~
S- S~~~



Activity and                                           If                                        Timingfrargets             epnil
Govrment Objectives              Acvty Components                  Expected Results/Impact     (M) I                                   _A8 q(ies)I
|i&Z MngrmatiEon             (a) Deveopmt and conpueiati    (a)  Oaf                               10   -                      VMMDGM
DevelpmAnt of mining         of geotecimical and geol            naonal geological srvey to       Data Bank Aptil '95.
infomation sysem  ti  bases                                      pvie upgaded geotchit                       Dec. $95.
enhae minel sector                                              infora      n key o  di.
development.                 (b) D       rveopment of data bank of
mining p     -duclio               (b) Senghedning te
measures/mechanisms and the
(c) Caaloguing of mining and       inormaon bas requid to
metlugi op oes.                    filiat sectoa
(d)Taining.                        (c) Comteraon of
dmistrtiveprw es
Strenethenine of Miino       (a) Development and computerization   (a) Strengthenig of tie procedures   07/93 - p6195          RPM/DGM
Insti  n.                    of minig cadal register.           for grating and management of
(a) Cmmma Coessig nghts and                                                                       Now c         
System: Development of a     (b) Stngbening of                                                    imp          Sept.'93 -
mining cadatl suvey          procedns     of mining    (b) Compteization/streamlining of   Dec.'95.
system and proedur  for      co ons an rghts, including          administaive mechanisms and
procesing minig              envirment reglations.               procedures for granting nd       Backlogged applications
coooessions.                                                    administration of mining rib.     p         Mar.94.
(c) Processig of backtogged/
(b) Compktion of the         otstading mining applcton.          (c) Stegtaing of the linkges     Seamined administafive
regulaty framework and                                          between the granting of mining    procedure applied Dec.'94.
implementation of mining     (d) Tining.                         concesiondrights and land use
sector refrms including dtose                                    pling.
related to the enviromental
prtctio



- 34 -
:~~~ t 
9Ijj'4L
tuI~~ Ii     j *11:1 'up~
SI r ]       a _  _ _  _  _  _ _



hli                     ji*   [I{t
ful 3l            .1 1 ff  LU1 
p   ~115,        [ji1l  3    ,t  li 
4  1 q         py 111111 
z  JI[                       '



-36-                                 ANNEX 2
ENERCi AND) MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LA
STATUS OF SECTORAL POUCIES AND REGULATORY REPORM
ENERGY
Energy Sector Structure
1.         Eno= Resour. Peru's energy resources are considerable, but mostly distant from
consumpion centers and costly to develop. The k p   potntial estimated at nearly 60,000
MW- compared to an installed capacity of less than 2,100 MW- is largely located east of the Andes,
whfle sites west of the Andes are susceptible to droughts. Proven reserves of hydrocarbon in 1991
amounted to 387 mn bbls of crude oil and 6.6 tr cf of natural gas, without fully including gas
reserves of the Camisea field. Deposits of mineral coal are relatively minor (proven reserves are
estimated at 126 mm mt, not all of which are economically mineable). Frestyi regm    are
abundant covering about 60% of the national territory, but more than 95% are located in the thinly
populated Selva region, and their use needs to be restricted for environmental reasons. The wind and
solar potential is significant especially in the Sierra region but is limited to localized use only.
2.         EneruM  In the Economv. Commercial energy supplies composed of hydrocarbons,
electricity, and coal accounted in the late 1980s/early 1990s for nearly 7% of GDP. Iheir
consumption has been a significant source of fiscal revenue, generating 22% of central government
tax receipts, with taxes on energy production (largely from Petroperu) accounting for another 3-5%.
While significant exportable surpluses of petroleum were generated during 1978-87 (pealing in 1982
at US$685mn, or 17% of foreign exchange earnings), the economy subsequently shifted to net energy
imports, which absorbed some 4% of foreign exchange earnings in 1991. Investment in the energy
sector, estimated at US$250mn equivalent in 1991, accounts for about 4% of gross fixed investment.
In contrast, direct employment probably is not much more than 1% of the total labor force.
3.         Eneay Supply - Demand Balance. Gross energy supply/ demand in 1991 totalled
11.7mn toe (I.e., 654 toe per US$mn of GDP) and final energy consumption, 10.1mn toe, which Is
only slightly above that in 1985. Petroleum products and natural gas combined met 49% of 1991
final energy consumption (natral gas consumptior is largely limited to field operations), biomass
including charcoal, 39%, and electricity, 11%, with coal and coke accounting for the remainder. The
residential and commercial sectors absorb the largest portion of final energy consumption (42%),
followed by transport (22 %), and industry and mining (I s. than 26% combined). The rural sector
accounts for the bulk of biomass consumption, as little commercial energy reaches rural consumers.Y
jflinis consumption pattern has been largely the result of price distortions over extensive
periods, both in absolute and relative terms. Wiith economic pricing of energy results would
nrobablv have been different.



-37-                                ANNEX 2
4.         Reflecting depressed economic activity and following declines in 1988-89, net
consumption of cIectricity in the public system grew at only 2.6% p.a. in 1990-91 to 12.1 TWh,
with above-average increases for residental and industrial use. Severe droughts have affected
generation in the 90% hydro-based system, aggravating the interuptions in power supplies due to
terrorism. Output of cggl oil has declined since 1982 at 5.6% p.a. to 110 thousand bid in 1992.
Consumption of petroleum products also was lower in 1991 (by 9%, following nearly unchanged
levels in 1990), but this did not compensate for the decline in output such that petroleum imports
increased in 1990-1991 from US$53mn to US$186mn. the decline in domestic crude output has been
aggravated by the shift in consumption toward lighter products, which has to be met through imports
as domestic refineries have limited conversion capacity to process heavy local crude. Should the
declining trend in petroleum output continue and domestic demand resume growth at its historical rate
of about 3.6% p.a., imports by 1995 could exceed US$500nm (current prices). Consumption of
mineal g  largely in industry has stagnated at less than 0.2mn mt/year, but imports have increased
and are substituting for domestically produced fuel oil as well as coal.
Ener Sector Organization
5.         The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for formulating policies and
through its General Electricity and Hydrocarbons Directorates (Direccidn General de Electricidad,
Direccion General de Hidrocarburos), for supervising the state-owned enterprises in the electricity and
hydrocarbons sectors. The autonomous Electricity Tariff Commission (Comision de Tarifas
Electricas, CIE), whose directorate is composed of representatives of Government and electricity
producers, is charged with setting electricity tariffs. An ierministrial committee representing the
Ministries of Energy and Mines, Economy and Finance, Industry, and Transport is advising on
petroleum products pricing.
6.         Public electricity service since the early 1970s has been provided by the national utility
Electricidad de Perd (Electroperd), Electrolima, and nine regionai utilities'. Electroperu,
Electrolima, and Electro Norte-Medio account for threequarters of electricity sales and income and
for more than 90% of sector assets. Electroperu is the largest generating company, accounting for
two-thirds of sector investment, and sells entirely in bulk to the other companies. These resell
electricity to final consumers, besides generating electricity of their own. Electrolima is the second-
largest generating company and the largest distribution company, accounting for 25% of generating
capacity and 60% of sales in the public system. Self-generation is significant among the larger
mining and manufackvring enterprises. Their installed capacity totals about 1,300 MW (1,000 MW
thermal) and some enterprises supply electricity to the public system. Hydrocarbons operations are
controlled by the fully state-owned company Petrdleos del Perd (Petroperu) and its affiliates Petromar,
Transoceanica, Serpetro, and Solgas. Petroperu directly accounts for just under one-half of crude
production and is the sole owner of the pipeline, refining (189,000 b/d capacity in six refineries),
marine terminal, storage, and wholesale distribution systems. Private oil companies work under
contract with Petroperu in exploration/production.
2/ These are: Electro Norte, Electro Nor-Oeste, Electro Norte-Medio (formerly
Hidroandina), Eleco Centro, Electro Sur-Medio, Electro Sur-Este, Electro Sur-Oeste,



- 38 -                               ANNEX 2
Enera Sector Issues
7.         'he situaion of the energy sector is critical as a result of past policies based on stongly
centralized decision making and goverment ownership, ad disregard of sound fnaces, aggrvated
by Inefficiencies at the enterprises. Weak sector peformance over extended periods, which was
largely a reflecdon of weaknesses in the overall economy, in tur has aggravated overal economic
problems. Inadequacies in the legallregulatory framework impaired sector efficiency. Corporate
dynamics were stifled by over-regulation and lack of managerial autonomy. Government interference
and financial constraints firther weakened the sector management and worsened employment
conditions. Past governments considered the sector as a public operation to extend subsidies and to
control inflation, and not as an economic activity. Prices of electricity and hydrocarons were set at
levels well below economic costs, and their Increases were Irregular and much less than domestic
inflation. Uneconomic pricing has led to wasteful consumption and misalocation of energy resources
throughout the economy and financial paralysis at the enterprises, which were unable to maintain let
alone expand their productive capacity. Finances were furher weakened by the lack of financial
expertise, outdated finacial systems, and inadequate control and auditing mechanisms at the
enterprises.
8.         Inmediately after assuming office in August 1990, the present Government started to
raise energy prices at regular intervals and at rates substantially above domesic inflation and
international energy price increases, in order to correct unsustainable financial losses at the
enterprises, reduce subsidies, and increase fiscal revenues from the energy sector. Ihis policy was
temporarily discontinued in early 1993 as the Government became concerned that devaluation-
triggered increases in energy prices would aggravate inflationary pressures, but significant energy
price increases were again enacted In May 1993.
lectricity
9.         Electricity supplies over extended periods were affected by frequent interruptions, low
reliability, and high losses. Generating capacity is not sufficient to meet demand: in 198089, only
736 MW was added to the public system, compared to 1,000 MW of increased demand. 220 MW of
capacity is out of service, and the capacity margin in major systems has been just about 5%.
Transmission and distribution networks are in poor condition. Ihe systems have become extremely
vulnerable to contingencies, such as the droughts in 1989 and 1992.
10.        Financial Issues. The main problems result from inadequate tariff action In the face of
severe inflation, non-transparent debt relationships between the Government and the sector
enterprises, and delays in collecting electricity bills, especially from government agencies. The sector
sustained losses each year since 1985, which reached US$560mn equivalent in 1989. Investment as a
share of the enterprises' uses of funds declined from 59% to 39% over the 1980s. Inernal cash
generation as a share of sources of funds declined as well, from 44% in the late 1970s to 4% in the
late 1980s. The enterprises' liquidity position is precarious. The income share of operating revenues
declined from 29% in 1978 to 8% in 1985 and has been negative since then (-154% in 1989,
improving to -8% in 1991). Depreciation is understated because assets are undervalued and
depreciation periods are excessively long. The debt service coverage and self-fincing ratios
declined during 1978-89 from 3.7 to -1.3 and from 78% to -159%, respectively. There is excessive
reliance on outside financing, primarily government contributions and external borrowing (which, by
the late 1980s, contributed 79% and 18%, respectively, to sources of funds). The sector's long-term
debt In 1989 was estimated at US$1.5bn equivalent and its short-term debt, at US$250mn, 90% of



-39-                                 ANNEX2
which was contracted by Electropu. As a consequence of large borrowings in the lat 1970slearly
1980s, the enterprises' debt service rose in 1980-89 from 30% to 47% of their use of funds. Delays
in servicing extena debt in the fce of extemal financing needs came to a crisis point in the mid-
1980s. The Government in 1987 assumed a significant portion of the enterprises' unpaid debt and
started to make transfers to cover the enterprises' debt service and to finance the bulk of their
investment.
11.        The 1982 Electricity Law recognized a 12% rate of return on revalued assets, and a
minimum return of 4% was set in 1987. In the event, the sector's return deteriorated from 5% to -
8% in 1979-90. Tariffs were to be set by CTE according to technical and economic criteria, but CTE
under previous administrions was overruled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance on political
grounds, and its autonomy in taiff matters was all but eliminated. Tariffs declined by 60% in 1985-
89 and in 1989 averaged only about US cents 1.8/kWh, 40% of unit operating costs. Tariff increases
in 1992 are expected to have resulted in a finanil retun on net revalued assets averaging 1.1% for
Eletroperu, but most regional utilities still incur losses. Taes and surchar    on electricity
consumption increased in number and complexity over the years. They included selective
consumption taxes (85% of the revenue was returned to the utilities), municipal charges, and
contributions earmarked for the expansion of electricity services. As the share of selective
consumption taxes returned to the enteprises was incorporated into the tariff base in early 1992,
average tariff increases in tariffs in 1992 amounted to 77%, whereas total charges to consumers
including taxes amounted to 55% only, or less than inflation (57%) and devaluation vis-a-vis the US
dollar (65%). While total charges including taxes exceed long-run marginal cost (estimated at about
US$cents 8/kWh for the entire system), the enterprises do not fully receive the corresponding
revenues, since taxes and surcharges amount to 25-40% of the final price. Average tariffs in
December 1992 were 77% of economic costs (65% for residential consumers). The tariffslmclre
does not reflect the relative costs of supplying electricity to different user groups. There still are high
subsidies for residentW consumption below 500 kWh/month (these tariffs, which include 73% of
residential consumption, cover less than 60% of their economic costs), streedighting, and agricultural
uses whereas industrial tariffs are close to and commercial tariffs exceed their economic cost. On the
other hand, the Government continues to undertake transfers to cover the enterprises' debt service.
12.        Qgrtoal Problms. Notwithsanding notable progress over the past two years, the
enterprises' management and accounting information systems are deficient and labor productivity is
low, largely because of overstaffing and inefficient deployment of labor. Operational efficiency has
deteriorated as evidenced by the increase in the suppliers' own consumption and losses from 11% of
gross energy available in 1979 to and 22% (nearly 2,000 GWh) in 1990-91. Collection arrears
deteriorated to 151 days in end-1991 (235 days for Electroperu).
Hydrocarbons
13.        Exploratio is insufficient to reestablish crude reserves at levels that ensure adequate
output over the medium to longer term. Because of low investment and poor exploration results,
crude reserves by 1991 had declined to less than 50% of their 1982 levels. Following the abrogation
of investment incentives in 1985 and ensuring contractual problems with private companies,
exploration activity fell off to US$40mn p.a. in the late 1980s, compared to a peak of US$380mn in
1975 (the number of completed exploration wells fell from 17 in 1981 to 1 in 1991). Recent
contracts mainly involve relatively small-scale firms with limited work commitments. Q)put of
crude declined from its 1982 peak of 195,000 bbls/d at 6% p.a., to 112,000 bbls/d in 1992.
Refineries in Peru are ill-equipped to treat heavy local crude and have inadequate secondary
conversion facilities. Wholesale marketing of petroleum products continues to be under Petroperu's



-40-                                 ANNEX 2
monopoly which, combined with inadequate pricing, have constituted the main barriers to antry.
Altiough most retail outlets have recently been privatized, Petroperu maintains a strong influe..
since most products bear its trade name.
14.        Finangial Issues. The absence of economic criteria and of transparent procedures for
determining prices, taxes, and subsidies for petroleum products has been one of the principal obstacles
to sector development. There is no automatic price adjustment mechanism tied to the variation of
iernational prices and exchange rates for ex-refinery prices and to marketing costs for consumer
prices. Prices of all petroleum products are negotiated between Petroperu and the Government.
Ihese prices lump together what is needed to run Petroperu's production operations, which usually
generate large economic rents, and downstream operations, which produce losses. Prices realized by
Petroperu reached cif Import costs by mid-1992 and were subsequently deregulated. But price
cotrols were reimposed in October and by December 1992. Cnmer gdri  of petroleum products
without exception exceed their combined cif and domestic marketing costs as a result of (i) selective
consumption taxes (about 44% of ex-depot prices, down from 57% before January 1992), (ii) specific
levies on gasoline, and (iii) general sales tax (18%) since January 1993. Relative pricea do not reflect
intnational price relationships: diesel, kerosene, and LPG are cross-subsidized, with the intenion to
limit their impact on the cost of living (prices of diesel amount to only 58% and those of kerosene,
51 % of the price of gasoline). Fuels for electricity generation have been supplied tax-free. The
misalignment in relative prices on account of cross-subsidization of substitutes, which has prevailed
over many years, has produced serious distortions in the consumption pattern and resource
misallocation in the economy.
15.        Fuel taxation has been used mainly to balance shortcomings in other areas, e.g. the
failure to tax resource rent which otherwise would have accrued to consumers under conditions of
under-pricing of crude at the refinery level. Occasionally, the Government undertook corrections to
alleviate discriminations against certain consumer groups. Following the differentiation of tax rates
for different petroleum products in early 1992, fuel taxation has become highly discrimiaory. The
10% tax on gross domestic saes applied as an income tax substitute was removed in January 1993,
but a 2% tax on gross assets and a 15% import duty on crude and petroleum products continue to be
paid by all petroleum operators. Because of inadequate prices, high debt service, and operational
inefficiencies, Petroperu and most of its affiliates are loss-making. Petroperu's accumulated losses for
the 198W0 period exceeded US$2. lbn and are esdmated to have been at least US$120 mn in 1992.
Govement policies aggravated this situation, as in past years, Petoperu (a) was not able to
sreamline its workforce to match declining output or to pay competitve salaries; (b) over-invested in
certain equipment as govemment-imposed procurement rules disallowed the hiring of equipment and
services, resulting in high equipment-related fixed costs when activities declined; (c) was unable to
optimize investment because of uncertain budget allocations from the Government; and (d) had to
catry the expenditure of government regulation and even of some core government services.



-41-                                  ANNEX 2
Ener Sector Reform
Development Requirements
16.        Adequate supplies of energy are a key condition for the rehabilitation and growth of
Peru's economy. In order to improve efficiency in the energy sector, allow market forces to play
their allocative role, and alleviate the financial burden of energy enterprises on public finances, far-
reaching reforms are required, as well as large-scale investments in rehabilitation and expansion. A
new legal/regatory/insttutional framework and coherent policies are needed; managerial, financial,
and operational performance at the enterprises has to be improved; a least-cost investment program
for meeting future energy requirements has to be developed, as a fmnework for projects; and energy-
related operations have to be made e onmentally susnable. At the operational level, it is
necessary to (i) corporatize the enterprises, freeing them from political interference and intervention
in day-to-day operations but establishing clear managerial objectives; (ii) eliminate unnecessarily
bureaucratic procurement and contracting procedures; and (iii) establish clear rules for commercial
tansactions between the various sector enterprises.
Reform Objectives and Strategy
17.        The Government seeks to increase revenues and to limit the financial burden on the
economy from the energy sector, and secure adequate energy supplies to the economy. The
Government has initiated a program for restructuring the energy sector to lead to the sector's
privatzatlon, for which it has established a new policy for sector development, a strategy to
implement it, and an agenda of specific actions to execute its reform program. Electricity and
petroleum products prices have been increased toward their economic cost and subsidies have been
reduced; energy taxation is being rationalized through shifting from multiple-rate levies, often
earmarked for different authorities, toward more evenly-structured consumer taxes and taxes on
entepies; and overstaff1mg at the energy enterprises has been significantly reduced. Nevertheless,
the more difficult reforms needed to transform the sector to a marketbased, largely privately-owned
system stfll lie ahead.
18.        The principal elements of the Government's reform program are as follows:
(a)  redefining the role of the state, clearly separating its policy and regulatory role from its
role as owner of public enterprises and of natural resources;
(b)   allowing the maximum feasible role of market forces through privatization of state-
owned energy enterprises and promoting private investment in new facilities;
(c) recognizing that energy enterprises need to be financially and economically viable, and
therefore need to be commercialy oriented, corporatized, and eventually privatized; and
(d)   setting energy prices at levels at which they cover economic costs, liberalizing energy
prices, and establishing price regulation that reflects economic costs where monopoly
conditions exist.



-42 -                                 ANNEX 2
19.        Achieving the Government objective of increasing efficiency and competition in the
energy sector through liberalization, decentralization, and privatization requires an effective
regulatory system. To provide a cohesive legal/regulatory framework for energy sector reform, the
Government has enacted in late 1992 a Law on Electricity Concessions and attendant regulations and
is advancing the preparation of a Hydrocarbons Law, all of which incorporate the most advanced
concepts successfidly applied in other Latin American countries. They will define the roles of public
institutions in policy making, sector entry and exit, investments, quality of service, and pricing.
Restrictions on private participation in electricity and hydrocarbons operations are being eliminated.
Competition in the energy sector is to be reinforced through antitrust legislation and support to the
development of local financial markets. The Government seeks an institutional structure for the
energy sector that ensures full coherence between the corporate structure of the enterprises and the
regulatory system. The reforms envisage (a) for electricity, the separation of gentration, transmission
and distribution into independent companies which would then be privatized; and (b) for
hydrocarbons, the privatization of Petroperu's affilites and direct operations.
20.       E£r.icit. The Government is also promoting private operation for all those activities
that can be deregulated (e.g., generation for major consumers) and self-service in small and isolated
rural setdements. The new structure as defined in the 1992 Law on Electricity Concessions is based
on decentralization and competition to the feasible extent, in order to foster efficiency, free access to
all stages of the electricity system, and free negotiations between producers and distributors and major
consumers. Ite new Law incorporates anti-monopolistic safeguards and principles for environmental
protection. Under the new regulatory framework, (a) generation will be decentralized and
deregulated, and be made subject to market forces tirough competition; (b) the transmission network
will provide access to all suppliers and purchasers under a common carrier system with an adequately
regulated toll scheme; and (c) distribution of electricity, a natural monopoly, will be carried out with
filly regulated rights and duties of suppliers and consumers, including the obligation to serve and to
provide service of adequate quality. Integrated companies being de-concentrated; separate
independent companies are to be created for generation, transmission, and distribution; and cross-
shareholdings are to be strictly limited. Tariff regulation will be based on marginal costs - as the
closest surrogate for market forces - for natural monopolies (i.e., through node prices in the
transmission system and distribution tariffs to final consumers), but sales to large-volume consumers
and transactions between generation enterprises covering about 40% of total sales have been
deregulated.
21.        The Government plans to privatize the publicly-owned utilities by mid 1995, starting
with Electrolima by end-1993, including through issue of shares to ensure widespread ownership.
Special Privatization Commitees have been set up for Electrolima and Electroperu. In order to
ensure a consistent approach to the restrcturing/privadzation process, advise from well-qualified
specialists will be sought, to guide the Government on sector strategies as well as on each
privatzation project, in regard to the configuration of units/companies to be sold, the required degree
of restructuring, and optimal method of sale. The following sequence of actions is envisaged:
(1)   Electroperu and Electrolima will form companies/units, including transmission
companies, which will be offered for sale to the private sector as going concerns;
(2)   Electroperu and the Regional Governments will sell their shares in the regional utilities
to the private sector;
(3)   New distribution concessions will be granted where the regional utilities are unable to
provide adequate service; and



-43 -                               ANNEX 2
(4) The transmission enterprises will be privatized.
22.        HXftO&n=. The Government's main objectives in the hydrocarbons sector are to (a)
increase reserves and output through sustained exploration, primarily by foreign companies; 0)
privatize Petroperu; and (c) maintain adequate refining and marketing capacity to meet domestic
demand. With the aim to stabilize output and to streamline operations, Petroperu has taken measures
to Increase efficiency, such as well work-overs, reducing the number of drilling rigS and of other
equipment, and reducing staff. The Government has taken important steps to strengthen the sector's
productive capacity, and is intensifying its efforts to attract foreign companies to invest in the
hydrocarbons sector. First, some outstanding claims from previous nationalizations have been settled.
Second, terms and conditions for exploration and field development have been made more attractive.
Periods for service and production sharing contracts have been extended, the payment of conactors
in convertible currencies has been guaranteed, private producers are allowed to export crude over and
above those volumes required to meet domestic demand and to cover tax liabilities, and procedures
for investment approvals have been simplified. Third, Petroperu's monopoly for imports and
domestic refining and marketing of petroleum products has been abolished. Finally, a new
Hydrocarbons Law is being prepared that envisages (i) the option for private investors to conclude
license agreements that govern relationships with the Government under the same terms and
conditions for Petroperu; (ii) Petroperu's privatization either wholly or in parts, and (Hii) more active
exploration promotion by a new government institution, Perupetro S.A. operating under the Law of
private companies. The taxation of rent will be undertaken within the framework of concession
agreements between the Government and producing companies (including Petroperu), which will
provide an appropriate mechanism through the application of royalties and income tax.
23.        Agenda for Action. The Government has set June 1995 as the deadline to acieve Its
sector objectives. Following the tariff action of April 1993 (which raised electricity prices to at least
90% of economic cost in all segments, except residential consumption below 300 kWh/month), the
Government is pursuing the subsequent ambitious targets, to monitor the process of reform:
Eilectri!ft  Seoo
Jun 30, 1993          Legal separation of the electricity sector into generation,
transmission, and distribution enterprises is completed
Jul 31, 1993          New supply from Ventanilla thermal plant to Electrolima is
contracted
Environmental and social protection manual is issued
Nov 30, 1993          New tariff system is completed through introduction of tariff
system for final consumers to be valid for four years
Tariffs for residential consumption below 300 kwhlmonth will
reach at least 90% of economic cost except, possibly, for
consumption below 50 kwh/month
Antitust guidelines are issued



-4M-                                ANNEX2
Dec 31, 1993          First utility, or portion, Is offered for sale
Jun 30, 1994          At least two utlities have been offered for sale
Govermment shares equivalent to 30% have been sold
Anti-trust gwdelines are implemented
Dec 31, 1994          Government shares equivalent to 60% have been sold
At least two regional utilities have been offered for sale
Jun 30, 1995          All government shares in the secoor have been sold. All
utilities have been privadzed
Jun 30, 1993          Hydrocarbons Law and Law of Peru-Petro, S.A. are
submitted to Congress
Plan to privatize Petroperu is completed
New model ,ontract is prepared
Technical. conomic, and legal norms on contracting
enterprist are completed
Aug 31, 1993          Contract between MEM and Petroperu on firther operatons
of producing fields is concluded
Agreement between the Govermment and the Bank on the
action plan to privatize Petroperu is reached
Sep 30, 1993          Reguations and technical norms on environmental maus,
operational safety, and transport and processing of
hydrocarbons are completed
Eneg Prldng
24.        Eectrici Tarffs and Taxadon. The principles and procedures for determining
electricity prices are being brought into line with a market-oriented system, so that tariffs reflect cost
strucures. First, the basis for tariffs is being changed from accounting to economic costs; subsidies
are to be eliminated for all consumer groups except, possibly, residential consumption of less than 50
kWhfmontlh; and cost differences in providing service to different regions are reflected in the tariffs.
The Governent is commited to supporting the Electricity Tariff Commission's decisions, free from
political considerations, as the autonomous technical body with sole responsibility for tariff regulation.
Second, distortions among and within categories of electricity users are being corrected as tariffs are
being unified according to voltage level, irrespective of consumer category. The Government plans to
consolidate the tariff categories into three - i.e., low, medium, and high/very high voltage - and to
establish a lifeline tariff for very low residendal consumption below 50 kWh/month. Discretionary
surcharges that distort price signals are being removed. Third, taxation of electricity consumption has
been simplified and consolidated by incorporating a 68% surtax into the rate base and increasing the
general sales tax from 16% to its general rate of 18% (with a largely neutral effect on flscal revenue),
thus phasing out the practice of collecting revenues for different fiscal authorities via the electricity
bill. A 22% municipal tax on elctricity consumption will also be incorporated into the tariff base by
September 1993. On the other hand, the Government plans to revoke the electricity enteprises'
exemption from fuel taxes (which now causes a fiscal revenue loss of US$3-4mn equivalentlmonth)



-45 -                                 ANNEY 2
and expects to make the enterprises liable to corporate income tax irrespecdve of their form of
ownership.
25.        PFreum Prduc  Following the reintroduction of price controls, permanent price
liberalization Is likely to be linked to the enactment of the new Hydrocarbons Law. Without price .
decontrol, however, the liberalization measures taken thus far - i.e. the removal of Petroperu's
import monopoly and Import protection for refined products - will not achieve their fill Impact.
Liberalizing petroleum products prices is key to the restructuring of the hydrocarbons sector because
(a)   Combined with free market entry, It ensures full deregulation of refining, foreign trade,
and domestic marketing of petroleum products and thus, facilitates the participation of
private firms in these activities;
(b) It links domestic prices automatically to the movements of international prices, increases
as well as declines, preventing the former from falling out of line with their economic
costs;
(c)  It reduces inflationary expectations and avoids the political costs associated with
government-decreed price adjustments perceived to be discretionary and arbitrary.
26.        In order to eliminate discriminatory pricing of petroleum products, the stucture of
taxation needs to be simplified and unified through levying broadly similar taxes. Petroleum products
have become liable to general sales tax starting in 1993, but the Government plans to reduce specific
taxes so that the overall tax burden on petroleum products does not change. Specific taxes on fuels
provide more revenue stability but less elasticity and responsiveness to changing market conditions.
Because of the value-added tax nature of Peru's general consumption tax, fuels used for commercial
purposes (mdustral and agricultural production; commercial transport) do not bear that tax.
Consideration also should be given to levying road user charges through relatively higher taxes on
transport fuels. Under current conditions of Petroperu's production monopoly, the resource rent from
petroleum production is not properly taxed. A 10% tax on gross domestic sales applied throughout
1992 has been removed, but Petroperu still is subject to a 2% tax on assets. Therefore, the pricing
and consumption taxaadon of petroleum products are intertwined with resource rent taxation, which
will have to be revamped once the sector is liberalized. The proposed new Hydrocarbons Law
envisages that the sector enterprises will be subject to royalties on crude production and corporate
income taxes, as the principal means to transfer the economic rent from hydrocarbons production
back to the Nation, in addition to consumption taxes on petroleum products.
Institutional Reforms
27.        MEM will continue to exert the policy making role in the energy sector. Its Naticnal
Council of Energy (CONERG) is to comply more adequately with its responsibilities of evaluating
energy development options, and is to act as a high-level advisory entity for key policies and
decisions. The General Directorates of Electricity and Hydrocarbons, respectively, will be
responsible for granting concessions and licenses, setting technical standards, and supervising service
quality. They will maintain their regulatory functions to ensure competitive markets once most
energy prices are liberalized and most energy enterprises are privatized. The Electricity Tariff
Commission will continue to be in charge of regulating tariffs, but the generating enterprises'
Committees for Economic System Operation (COES) will be responsible for calculating tariffs. The
Ministry of Economy and Finance plans to continue monitoring energy- and environment-related
developments, in order to ensure their consistency with the Government's macroeconomic strategy.



-46-                                 ANNEX 2
The selection of investments In electricity generation and transmission is envisaged to be monitored
by CONERG within the framework of an indicative plan, while investments in distribution will be
under the direct responsibility of the utilites. The Government will require that sector projects folow
not only the regulations specifically related to electricity and hydrocarbons, but also those established
for competition, taxation, envitonmental and social protection, health, and urban planning. The
Government will Insist that energy-related projects adequately internalize the corresponding costs of
environmental and social protection, and that the necessary measures are taken to reduce negative
Impacts of existing installations. When legislation does not exist or is insufflcient to address these
aspects, MEM wil be responsible to establish the required norms.
Ilavetmt Requirenents
28.        Throughout the 1980s, investment was insufficient to maintain the productive capacity of
the energy sector, let alone to provide for its expansion. Projects to a large extent were selected on
political grounds and were poorly Implemented. Major investments are needed both for rehabilitation
and expansion, but they will be determined by the ongoing privatization process, in particular the
progress in forming new private companies.
29.        EBricly, In the short term, high priority should be given to rehabilitadtg the
distribution networks, reducing losses, and thus, increasing the availability and reliability of supplies.
Financing is being sought from institutional lenders for a loss reduction program, whose costs are
estimated at US$S15mn p.a. for Electrolima alone. Since current dispatch facilities are inadequate for
efficient market-oriented operations in integrated grids, there is need to (a) establish a National Center
for Coordination and Supervision to ensure proper management of the electricity system, and (b)
adopt Electrolima's generation/distribution control center to the operations under the new regulatory
framework, at a cost of approximately US$17mn. In view of the drought-induced energy shortages in
the recent past, 200 MW of thermal (gas tubine) capacity in the Central-North system is being
installed by mid-1993 and additional thermal capacity in the following years. Medium-term
investment requirements are indicated in a 1991 study prepared by Electroperu, which is based on
assumptions of modest economic growth throughout the 1990sN and of electricity demand growth
projected at 3.4% p.a. during 1991-95 and 4.3% p.a. during 1996-2000. According to this study,
investnent requirements for the 1992-96 period exceed 1991 US$1bn (36% for generation; 19% for
transmission; 14% for distribution; the remainder for rehabilitation and other items). The bulk
(US$600mn) would be for the Cenr-North system, especially Lima.
30.        Jy.rcarbons. Because of severe financial constraints, Petroperu in recent years bas
rarely carried out more than 40% of its budgeted investment. The entity meanwhile accounts for just
about one-half of petroleum-related investment overall and less for upstream investment, where the
bulk is carried out by private firms operating under service contracts. This, however, is also an
indication of the relative success in attracting outside companies to petroleum exploration and field
development, especially after Petroperu had given up acreage, the approval process was simplified,
exploration terms were made more flexible, and restrictions on profit remittances were removed
following the enactment of Legislative Decree No. 655 (August 1991). This process is likely to
gather momentum once the new Hydrocarbons Law and attendant regulations are enacted. It is also
likely that Petroperu in future will invest less as its activities are being scaled back. In the short
term, expenditures of at least US$80-100mn p.a. are needed to rehabilitate Petroperu's productive
capacity. Petroperu projects its own investment to average US$1 10mn p.a. (1991 prices and
31 i.e., GDP growth of 2.6% p.a. for 1991-95 and 3.2% p.a. for 1995-2000.



- 47-                               ANNEX 2
exdhange rates), largely for rehbiitating existing fields and surface installations for which IIDB and
CAF financing has been obtained, but also for adding conversion capacity to refineries. Major
rehabilitation of handling and storage facilities and new investment should be undertaken by the
private sector only. This is particularly so for the Caisea natural gas schem  estimated to hold
nearly 1 tr cf of recoverable reserves. Among the various alternatives, Petroperu envisages a frst-
stage net output of about 300mn cf/d of gas (an additional 700mn cfd would be reinjected) and
60,000 b/d of liquids and transmission of gas and liquids to Lima and Cuzco for electricity generation
and industrial use. Project implementation is to take five years. Capital costs for appraisal drilling,
field development, pipelines, and gas treatment facilities are preliminarily estmated at 1991 US$l.Sbn
(over and above US$200mn already spent by Shell on exploration). According to Petroperu, 40% of
financing is to be provided through equity and the remainder through loans from international
development banks and suppliers. However, no progress has been made as yet in committing
investors to this project. The development strategy for the electricity will be strongly influenced by
the outcome of the scheme to develop Camisea as a possible primary energy source for power
generation. The Government is also seeking investors for the smaller Aguayl (0.25 tr cf
recoverable reserves) naural gas scheme whose development is expected to cost US$25-30mn but
which would be of local significance only, as well as for the Maqufa and Agua Caliente oilflelds.
Mining
Bacdground
31.        Mining is a major activity of the Peruvian economy, contributing about 5 percent of
GDP and 50 percent of total exports. The sector's poor performance in recent years had a significant
adverse impact on the overall economy. Three large state-owned mining companies, Centromin,
HierroPeru, and MineroPeru are responsible for 40 percent of total sector output.
32.        Over the last 20 years, the mining sector has been hampered by inward-looking, import-
substitution economic policies and state ownership and control of productive facilities to exploit
natural resources. The 1971 mining law resulted in the nationalization of Cerro de Pasco (Centromin)
and Marcona (HierroPeru), and the creation of MineroPeru. In addition, the law gave the state the
monopoly for the marketing of all mining exports. Minpeco was founded in 1975 to administer this
trading monopoly.
33.        Mining is a global industry. Almost all of Peru's mineral production is exported and
sold at prices set in international markets. In order to survive and prosper, Peru's producers must be
competitive with producers worldwide. Changes in the global economy over the past decade have
caused an increasing divergence between the performance of private and state-ontrolled mining
companies in most countries. Most private companies are entering the 1990s organizationally lean
and operating modem, competitive facilities. In contrast, most state-controlled companies are
entering the 1990s with little change except that their facilities are older.
34.        The evolution of mining in Peru during the 1980s can be separated into two periods.
Output grew by 1.8 percent p.a. during 1980-85 but declined by about 4.5 percent p.a. during the
second half of the decade when net investment was negative. Between 1982 and 1986, a pardcularly
difficult period for world mining due to low prices for minerals, Peruvian mining stagnated. During
the second half of the 1980s, international prices of metals improved and international mining
enterprises resumed investment activities in major mining countries (Chile, U.S., Canada). Despite
this favorable world-wide climate, in Peru inadequate economic policies, labor issues, poor



-48-                                ANNEX 2
this favorable world-wide climate, in Peru Inadequate economic policies, labor issues, poor
performance of the state-owned enterprises, and the threat of terrorism in important mining areas
resulted in the negative growth of sector output.
Govenment Strategy and Policies
35.        The Government recognizes that the speedy revival of the mining sector is essential for
economic growth, and that this revival will only be possible with private sector participation. The
privatization process has been moving quicldy in the mining sector. It started with the Goverment's
Legislative Decree No. 647 (July 1991) authorizing private participation of a minimum of 51% in
Centromin, HierroPeru, and MineroPeru, through an increase of capital that would provide private
Investors with the majority stake in these companies. Decree 675 (October 1991) authorized the
privadzatlon of Minpeco. The privaization program in mining is continuing under Legilative Decree
674 which established the legal and institutional fiamework for the overal privatization program. In
accordance with Decree 6V4, the Government established in 1992 Special Privatization Committees
for HierroPeru, MineroPeru, and Centromin. Meanwhile, HierroPeru, some holdings of M-neroPeru
- Minera Condestable and Quellaveco - and the US subsidiary of MinPeco have been privatized, while
the technical/economic evaluations of the operadons of Centromin and MineroPeru have been
completed in preparation of their respective privatzation.
Lga and Regulatory Frahmewrk
36.        With respect to the Lega and Regulatory Framework, the Government in November
1992, promulgated Legislative Decree No. 708 for the promotion of private investment in the mining
setor. This Law guarantees mining companies tax stability and the right to operate under the same
foreign exchange regime effective at the time operations started. Concessions will be granted for the
exploration and exploitation of minerals and metals. A drawback system has been introduced in
1993, allowing mining companies to deduct local taxes (including indirect taxes) from their income
taxes. This law also allows for the formation of joint ventures for all mining activities, including
marketing. In addition, the law guarantees mining companies the same treatment as other companies
regarding the right to remit profits, free access to foreign exchange, and to freely market the
production, both ntonally and abroad. The associated regulations are being prepared by a joint
MEM Private Sector Committee.
37.        The new mining legislation has established an adequate framework for private
investment, which the Government must maintain in order to ensure the success of the privatzation
and the continued development of the sector. The streamlining of the sector Institions requires a
program to establish an instiutional famework that is clear and effective for allocating, directing and
controlling mining rights and activities.
nuiSonal RequIrmets
38.        An institutional restructuring program is presently being implemented. The new
structure is expected to result in Improved performance with respect to sectoral policy, regulation,
promotion, administration, and generation of required basic Information to develop mining activities.
The structure of the sector has been simplified and the personnel in enterprises reduced. The
funmctons have been clarified and have been distributed based on the following principles:
(a)  clear definiton of sector objectives;



-49 -                                ANNEX 2
(0)  separation of the different roles (policy; normative; operative), in order to optimize
efficiency; and
(c)  clear definition of the mandate of each institution.
39.        The requirements of the remaiing principal sector institutions are as follows:
(a)   General Mining-Directorate. DGM needs to focus on the definition of policy, the
updating of norms and regulations, and sector development strategy. It should also be In
charge of coordinating and monitoring the activities of the sectorial institutions. All
operative fiunctions would be transferred to other institutions.
(b) RM. To establish a single interface between the governmental institutions and the
private sector, all concession and permit granting procedures, as well as the technical
control of the application of the norms and regulations, should be transferred to RPM.
This would improve the confidence of the private sector in the administration, as RPM is
a technical and autonomous organization.
(c)   MINPERU. Following the privatization of the statowned mining companies, the State
will need an organization which represents its financial interests in the minin portfolio,
constituted by the Government's share in the new companies. This should be in the
form of a financial holding company, operating under the supervision of MEM. Given
Minperu's competence in mining, mineral economics, and management, this entity
should be made also responsible for project promotion. Ithe contracs established with
national and foreign companies will be an important asset to fulfill this function.
(d)  INGEMM[. The main responsibility of INGEMMET is to generate and disseminate
basic geological data and carry out regional mineral inventories and assessments. This is
of high priority to attract investors and promote the development of the sector. Applied
investigations should be carried out on a contract basis only, or within the framework of
bi- or multilateral support. However, external assistance should be oriented first to the
basic tasks of the institution. Exploration should become the exclusive responsibility of
the private sector. INGEMUET should also develop its capacity to provide professional
services contracted commercially by the private mining industry. Private sector
participation should be sought to the feasible extent.
Envhrnment
Badwround
40.        Pollution from the energy and mining sectors is recognized as a major national problem,
and there X concern about the state of water quality of Peru's principal river systems. There is also
localzed concern about air and coastal pollution from hydrocarbon - and mining-related activities.
No quantitative assessments have been made of the scale and gravity of the pollution, and of priorities
for dean-up. Nonetheless evaluation of the available rudimentary data indicates that the country's
waer resources are being degraded. Addidonally, the institutional framework is complicated by the
num  of governmental and non-governmental institutions active in the environmental field, with
little coordination between them. A recently created General Directorate of EnviroLmenWt Affairs
(Dicd General de Asuntos Ambientales; DGAA) at MEM is responsible for dealing with
environmt issues in energy and mining. Establishing a system to mitigate environmental



- 50 -                               ANNEX 2
degradation requires an adequate legal/regplatory framework, effective institutions to develop and
enforce the appropriate reglations, and an information base relevant to policy-setting. The
Government recently has taken a series of measures to improve the environmental policy framework
and specifically to tackle the environment problems caused by energy- and mining-related activities.
Additionally, the Government needs to take further measures to remove or reduce the institutional and
policy constnts that limit the effectiveness of its efforts to tackle environmental risks to public
health and sensitive ecosystems, and to halt the decline in the productivity of agriculture and fisheries.
The Government's efforts need to focus specific priorities for which solutions and benefits can be
readily demonstrated, whie allowing for expanding these efforts once the relevant institutions gain
experience.
Insfftutional Reform
Ihe primary problem in implementing environmena management of the
energylmining/electricity sectors in Peru is institutionaL. There is currendy no single responsible
agency, but rather six or more prefectures (Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Health, Ministry of
Lands, CONAMA, DIGESA, INAPMAS, ONERN, MEM-DGAA) responsible for various aspects of
eavironmena management. Problems facing these various institutions range from weak planning,
limitations In manpower skills, conflicting functions and responsibilities, and weak institutional
linkages resulting in inefficient resource use, fragmentation and poor motivation.
Further efforts will be required by the GOP to strengthen and reform its environmental
istionral process with the objective of:
a.    Enuing the establishment and functioning of CONAMA (Consejo Nacional de Medio
Ambiente), the national EPA agency;
b.    Saving resources by eliminaing the current unnecessary duplications of efforts;
c.    Ensuring and strengthening coordination between the relevant institutions; and
d.    Enhancing its technical expertise in the broad understanding of environmenl issues.
The GOP has signed a law, establishing the country's national environmental protection
agency - CONAMA. At the same time, this law establishes national environmental sYstem - SNA
(Sysems Nacional Ambiento). The concept is to have CONAMA functioning as the overall watchdog
nationa EPA type agency and operating at the local and regional levels through the SNA. CONAMA
crrenldy has two operational staff.
DGAA is ,he insttution with the responsibility within MEM for developing, coordinating and
managing the sector's environmental issues. Once CONAMA is on board, DGAA will interact with
CONAMA in the area of policy enforcement. This project provides technical assistance to DGAA to
enable it to undertake its functions and to strengthen its interdepartmental linkages through improved
management structres, data management procedures, and providing a one window approach for
dealing with environmental issues in energy and mining sector investments.



-51 -                                ANNEX 2
Regulatory Framework
The various key environmental regulations enacted or to be enacted are outlined below:
(a)    National Environment Code (1990)
This represents a long term commitment by the GOP to environmental protection, and
the maintenance of public health and safety.
(b)    Environmental Assessment Regulation. (Ammended 1992)
The enacted Environment as Assessment Regulation provides a means of assessing the
potential environmental impacts of major investment activities. The Environmental
Assessment (EA) Regulation establishes:
Activities subject to mandatory environmental assessment;
Procedures for providing EA's; and
Procedures for public involvement.
(c)    Sectoral Codes of Practice
The required enabling environmental regulations and guidelines required to ensure
sectoral compliance to the enviromental laws are not yet in place, and are to be
developed under the project.
(d)    Emission and Discharge Standards
The regulatory outlines for maximum levels of air emissions and levels of
concentrations of substances that may be released into the environment from specified
sources e.g.: NO., SO., CO, BOD, COD, etc. are not yet in place and are to be
developed under the project
(e)    Environmental Liability Regplation
The Bank supports the GOP's position to develop and define environmental liability
regulations. In knowing the applicable criteria, stakeholders and parties to business
transactions will be able to appraise the economic costs of their environmental
liabilities.
(t    Economic Instruments.
The existing environmental framework currently relies predominantly on the command
and control approach. DGAA plans to study the feasibility of using economic and



- 52 -                              ANNEX 2
finacial istumen  In curbing setoral polludon and in support of the environment
regulatory framework. Given the required level of dependence on the legal system,
which the ommand and control approach dictates, the government, industry, and the
industies %vuld benefit from this flexible and innovative approach in addressing the
complex and tostly environmental issues.



-53-                                 ANNEX3
RU
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISANAE LOAN
SUtMMRY OF LESSONS OF BANKMJTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE
ELECTRICITY
Background
1.           There is a Bankwide deteriorating trend in power projects. In the LAC region, the
crisis of the power sectors is also reflected in the slowdown of new operations which hit bottom in
FY1991, the first year with no lending for power. Ihe Region's experience has been that weak
economic management affects not only the macroeconomic performance, but also sector and project
performance. Sound macro-economic management is critical to successful project implementation,
especially regarding: (a) availability of counterpart funds; (b) adequacy of cost recovery and inteally
generated funds; (c) avoidance of cost overruns; and (d) efficient management and avoidance of high
staff rotation (FY91 ARIS). The LAC lending strategy establishes that economic and sector reform
programs are essential complements, and that sectoral investment loans are a more effective tool for
influencing sector policies and investment programs, provided that the institutional base is able to
support their implementation.
2.           I1 1 1b.  IEN's 1988 review of Bank lending for electric power indicates
either stagnation at unsatisfactory levels or a declining trend in overall sector performance. Although
availability, access to service, and consumption of electricity have increased in most developing
countries, the quality of supply and degree of losses have remained unsatisfactory despite large
investments. Electricity prices have consistendy lagged behind costs. Price-related covenants of
Bank-financed projects (invariably reflecting the bare minimu of financial requirements) have
frequently been ignored, undermined, or postponed. The review recommends: (a) improving
productive and allocative efficiency; (b) increasing incentives for enhanced utility efficiency; (c)
strengthening power-energy-macroeconomic linkages; (d) improving investment planning to achieve a
better balance between generation and distribution; and (e) giving greater emphasis to rehabilitation
and maintenance. Sector restructuring and institutional reform is also necessary to improve the social
compact between government, consumers, and electricity utilities.
3.           OED Perseiv. The principal lessons drawn by OED from its FY91 review of
power projects are:
*     close monitoring and frequent supervision increases the likelihood of project success;
O     institutional development can only be successful when strategies are based on a
realistic consideration of political constraints and government commitment to reform;
*     further Bank lending to borrowers experiencing financial decline increases the risk
that financial covenants will not be observed;
*     tariff increases and steps to achieve financil rehabilitation should be conditions of
lending which, if not met, should lead to suspension of disbursements; and
*     sector lending should be based on a carefully evaluated macro economic framework.



-54-                                ANNEX 3
The Coo of LAC and of Peru
4.           LATIE (1991) analyzed the major crisi facig the electic power secrs of the LAC
reon. Electricity demand growth in LAC during the last two decades was about four percentage
ponts higher than econoric growth. Since most counrsies In the Region are implemeang economlc
stabilization and reform programs and envisage to resume economic growth after the sagnation of the
1980s, it can be expected that such spread In gowth wil condnue and that electicity demand wil
grow faster In the 1990s than in the 1980s. The consequence of such increasing demand of electricity
is a high requirement of resources for the capital-intensive electricity sector.
The Propc3ed Operation
S.           Based on lessons learned from past experience, the proposed Project would help the
Government to carry out basic reforms in the sector by (a) clearly separtg Its regulatory and
corporate roles; (0) establishing a modern regulatory framework where generation would be subject to
market forces, transmission would allow free access to suppliers and buyers, and distribution would
remain as a natral but fully regulated monopoly; (c) realigning the sectores corporate framework
with its regulatory framework; (d) privatizing government-owned utilities; and (e) seeking privae
capital for all new investments. Ihis reform process would significantly improve sector efficiency
through improved resource allocation, from the corporate point of view (utilities would be run as
commercial enterprises), and from the consumers' point of view (prices would give the right signals
for conservation). The objectives of the proposed Project would be consistent wifth the
macroeconomic objectives of the Bank's economic adjustment operations, within the Government's
economic stabilization and reform program.
EIYDROCARBONS
Background
6.           The Bank has undertaken three hydrocarbon-related projects in Peru, I.e., the
Petroleum Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1806-PE), Petroleum Refinery Engieering Project Loan
2117-PE) and Petroleum Production Enhcement Project (Loan 2195-PB). While the Bank's
experience in strenghening policy-making institutions in the hydrabons sector is relatively limited,
the experience gained with projects in Peru and in other LAC countries, especially the Argentina Gas
Utilization and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2592-AR) and the Oil and Gas Engieering
Projects in Argentina (Loan 1880-AR) and Bolivia (an S-25-BO) is relevant to the design of this
proposed project, whose objective is to strengthen MEM as key policy making and monioring
institution in the to-be-privatized oil and gas sector. This experience primariy pertains t tree areas,
i.e. sector strategy, insdtution building, and project financing. Many of the relevant lessons are
generic to technical assistance projects focussing on instiuion building. However, the complex
technical nature of the hydrocarbons sector and the importance of technology transfer impose specific
requirements, over and above those for institution building in other sectors.
Lessons Related to Institution Building
7.           The Bank's experience with oil and gas projects in LAC and other regions has
provided a framework for successful hydrocarbons sector operatons. The most important factors
have been incorporated into the hydrocarbons component of the Project, as follows:
*     project implementation depends critically on the existence of a strong project uni to
act as counterpart entity to exernal specialists;



-55-                                3ANNEX3
*     to the exten that substantal indhtution  changes occur as a result of projet
implementation, strong goverment and industry commitment needs to be ensured,
above and beyond the commitment by those agencies and offcias directly nvolved in
implementg the changes;
*     the active involvement of government offlcials In the design and Implementation of
technical assistce activities is Important, as is the training of local speciists. To
obtain maximum benefits from high-technology projects) including technology
transfer, amrgements are needed to ensure close cooperation between govenment
officials and local specialists on the one hand and external specialists on the other;
*     the sustainability of the project depends critically on the government's wmingness to
implement the recommendatons of the extera consultants and to ensure the
availability of qualified staff for critical tasks, irrespective of political changes in the
country. In particular, benefits from training are sustWnable only if Incenives to
retain staff are offered. Ilstitution building is an important safeguard to avoid the loss
of qualified staff for financial and political reasons; and
*     stting at an early stage of project implementation, the Bank's policy dialogue with
the government needs to reinforce the objectives and focus of the technical
assistance/institution building activities.
Lssons Related to Sectoral Strategy
8.           The weak performance of the hydrocarbons sector underline the need for reform in
the sector organization and management, including deregulation, privatization of PelroPeru, and
,pening the sector to private investment and competition. These requirements are being addressed
dhrough this Project and the Bank's forthcoming Privatization Project, respectively.
Lessons Reled to Project F1nandng
9.           The following lessons are relevant:
(a)    Given the uncertain nawre of technical assistance activities in general and in the
hydrocarbons area in particular, the project budget should make adequate allowance
for condngencies, to avoid that project objectives are impaired due to lack of funds.
In particular, the availability of adequate counterpart funds needs to be ensured;
(b)    For project sustainability, it is essential that funding is available beyond the period of
Bank involvement, to ensure that salaries and other working conditions offered to the
hydrocarbon specialists in government service bear a meaningfil relation to those for
comparable private sector employment.
MINING
Background
10.          Bank-wide experience in implementing mining projects in LAC (Bolivia, Mexico,
Ecuador) and other Regions has resulted in information and knowledge as well as the development of
a framework for mining sector adjustment. Whereas the policies of countries with expanding mining



-56 -                                ANNEX 3
sectors might differ from each other in detail, there are important common factors which make them
successfuW, such as: stable and transparent regulations defining the rights and obligations of the
investor and the governwt; a competitive and well-structured fiscal regime which provides an
adequate return to investors and a fair share to the government; assured access to foreign exchange at
market rates for profit and capital remittances as well as for operational needs; and effective support
and monitoring of private minig investment by well-organized government insiuons.
Proposed Operation
11.          Incorporating these experiences, the mining component of the Project would assist the
Government in implementing its sector strateg and policies, which aim at attracting private
Investment. They consist of the following elements:
(a)    Existing state companies will be privatized at the earliest opportunity to improve their
productivity and to give a clear signal to investors with respect to the Government's
intention to follow a private-sector based strategy.
(b)   Incentives to investors will be clearly determined in the relevant legislation. Taxation
of mining companies will be consistent with the overall tax regime, but it will take the
specific nature of mining as a resource-based industry into account, as well as tax
levels In other mining coutries, with a view to maintaining or establishing
competitiveness of the national industry. Mining taxes will be eanings-related rather
than output- or input-related to avoid distortions in investment and operaional
decisions.
(c)    Mining legisation will reduce risk and uncertainty for potential investors and ensure
easy access to exploration permits and mining concessions. Permits and concessions
will be transferable with a minimum of government interference. Investment
agreements, where required, will provide additional assurances to protect Investors
from unwarraned government interference, as well as safeguards for the Government
to ensure that investors meet their obligations.
(d)    Mining institutions-i.e., MEM, Geological Survey, environmental protection and
mine safety institutions-will be reorganized and strengthened to better perform their
promotional, regulatory, and monitoring functions. Government institutions will
discontinue operational and marketing functions which they assumed during the period
of state-led mining development.
(e)    Environmental aspects of mining have been neglected in the past. In order to ensure
environmentlly sustainable mining development, appropriate regulations and
adards wfll be established together with effectve monitoring and enforcement
capabilities.



-57-                         ANNEX4
ENERGY AND BUS    TEHICA ASSISTANCEC LOAN
OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE LOAN
L     Preparation of Terus of Reference
The implementing ager ies (i.e., MEM entities and autonomous agencies, as
appropriate) prepare draft TORs, with assistance of the Bank when requested. Draft
TORs are submitted to the EMTAL Coordinating Unit manager for approva and to
the Bank for no-objection prior to issuing to consultants.
2.    Creation of Short List for Recruitment of a Firm
The implementing agencies prepare an inital list for review/approval by the
Coordinadng Unit manager. The short list will be submitted to the Bank for no-
objection.
3.    Selection of Individual Consultants
The implementing agencies make an initial selection, but send the curriculum vitae
(with a brief justification of the fee), to the Coordinating Unit manager for approval
and to the Bank for no-objection.
4.    Draft Letter of Invitation, including Evaluation Criteria, and Contract
The implementing agencies draft the documents (based on an agreed model) and send
them to the Bank for no-objection.
S.    Evaluation of Proposals
Ihe implementing agencies evaluate proposals and select the winning firm. Before
notiying the firms, the selection committees will send the evaluation report and
winning proposal to the Coordinating Unit manager for approval and to the Bank for
no-objection.
6.    Negodation of Contract
The negotiation of the contract is handled by the Implementing agencies (based on
guidelines issued by the Coordinating Unit manager). Prior to signatu, the
negodated conteact wil be sent to the Coordinang Unit manager for approval and to
the Bank for no-objection.
7.    Supevision of C,onsultants
Supervision is the responsibility of the implementing agencies. Progress reports on
techal assistance will be included in the current overall special committee reporting
to the Coordinating Unit manager.



-58-                        ANNEX4
8.    Disbursement
Paymn to couldts and suppliers will be made direly by the Administrative
Agency from Its own resources. MEM will request disbursements, through the
Project Coordinting Unit, of Bank loan funds to reimburse the Administative
Agency for eligible expenditures made. Ihe Application for Withdral requests
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank should be for a minimum of $500,000.
Individual requests for reimbursement of expenditures corresponding to contracts of
$100,000 or above equivent will be fully documented. The Borrower will submit to
the Bank a Summary Sheet with all relevant documentation. For expenditures of
contracts below $100,000 equivalent, the Borrower will submit Statements of
Expenditures, and will maintain the supporting docmation which should be readily
available for review by Bank supervision missions and the auditors.
9.    Audit
An annual audit of the Project accounts will be undertaken by independent auditors
and submitted to the Bank.



-59 -                                      ANNEX 5
ENERGY AND MINING TECNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
LOAN ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN TEE GOVERNMENT OF PERlT AND UNDP
1.    The Ministry of Energy and Mining will be the Executing Agency on behalf of the Government for the
Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL) to be extended by the World Bank. UNDP will be in
charge of the project administraton as agreed among MEF, MEM, and UNDP in a letter of agreement.
2.    For recruiting and managing consultants to be financed by the proceeds of the Loan, the division of
responsibilities among MEF, MEM, and UNDP will be as follows:
MEF
-     Repayment of principal amount, interest, and other loan related charges
-     Grantig approval to the Loan Adminitration Agreement
-     Compliance with Loan Conditionalities as specified in the Loan Agreement between the Bank
and the Government of Peru
MEM (Project Coordinating Unit)
-     3dentification of consultants and preparation of short lists
-     Drafting of terms of reference
-     Preparation of leuers of invitation for proposals
-     Evaluation of proposals and seleution
-     Negotiation and signing of contracts
-     Supervision of performance and review and acceptance of reports
-     Preparation and Mung of withdrawal applications
-     Approve UNDP's selection of exte    auditors for accounts certification and financial
statements
-     Supervision of funds allocation
-     Submitnmg quarterly financial status reports of the Project to the Directorate of Public Credit
of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
-     Obtaining the Bank's no-objection for consultants' short lists, terms of reference, and
Contracts
-     Compliance with budget norms outlined in the current budget law
-     Establishment of a Budget Section to which MEF will assign disbursements of the World
Bank Loan
-     Submitting disbursement information to MEF immediately after it becomes available
UNDP
Administration of consultants' contracts including verification of payments, requests, and
payments to consultanS
-     Opening and mantaining separate accounts for receipt of Project funds and effectuating
payments
-     Preparation of financial statements
-     Selection of outside auditors of UNDP's Project accounts and financial statements
-     Submission to MEM of all information and supporting documentation necessary to enable
MEM to prepare appropriate withdrawal applications
-     Provision of MEM with such other services incidental to the above as MEM may reasonably
request



i60 *ANNEX S
3.    I discrg the responsibllties set forth above, UNDP should act as agent and on behalf of MEM.
4.    It is undeod that UNDP should make all payments required under contracts admiised by it and should
be peridically reimbursed by the Bank It is further understood that, for this purpose, MEM should submit
withdrawal applications to the World Bank on a monthly basis, except as the World Bank may othwise require in
accdace with the provisions of the Loan Agreement
In payment of its services and expenses, UNDP wll charge, and the Govnment wM pay, an all-inclusive fee of
3.0% of the amount of payment made by UNDP. MEM should include said fee In Its disbursement reqests  the
World Bank  MEM should request the World Bank to makce all disbursements from the Loan Account to the order of
UNDP into the UNDP Contrbutions Account No. 015.02284, Chemical Bank, New York, N.Y., U.S.A..
5.    UNDP agrees to cooperate with MEM'and the Government at large to enable them to comply with all
requrements of the Loan Agreement, Including the General Conditions. Without limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, UNDP should keep records and separate accounts and provide for the audit thereof in such manner as to
enable the Government to comply with its obligations under the correspondent Section of the Loan Agreement and
with the provisions of the disbursement letter.



EWW RG      NI X"ING NOMCH"tL ASStSTANIX LOM"
trple -en uttn Pero d (FTu
Institution                  Proj c99                                                   199S                  t99
CoUEEGT/Nfntstry of Energy     Integrated Energy
*nd Nines                      strate__
Inst1tutiel  
Strenothenin8 of
Viceainistry of Energ&         CCqAetlon of
Legpl/Eeguletotr
f ramesok and .f oer
toIleenteatfn
Ninistry of Energy and cNnes    elfgn of fEnerg
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   Nnegement  5Syse  e _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IdC"finistry of Energy ad      institutienul
MimsI Strengthening of D6E                                                                                                                                     t
CTE                            Tariff                    o nxn
I spementation             _      _
CTE                            Institutional tuooum
Strengthening of CTE
Viceninistry of Enery          Comptetion of           x zzocuouoaaauu
LegaLIRegUtatory
framework
DON                            Institutilat
Strengthening of DEN
PeruPetrot S.A.                Petrtolea
Explotation and
Exploitation
Pro.ation aid
Estabtlishment of
Peru-Petrol  S.A.
1 ~~~ALllMN- M.M
Viconinstry of Nining         Nining Promotion        ______,
DIII                           Nining Infor_tlon
I _____________                 System 



Al  sI   Il   I             Al III   I 11I   I Al II    It 1    I  A TI-, ,     1I1__.        
M66                   966,                   56661                 t6t              £661             3301°d                    UO$Il
(M) pO6 Uo01emsevm1dll



.   |                 .,      ~             IV                                         Implementation Period (FY)
lInstitution                                      ProJect                     1993       |1994                           |1995                           |            1996              |1997
.______.     ______.._________ ,_______,  _  __                            __            IV  __         II     III       IV     I       ZR      fit       IV     I      It      III      IV     I     I        III      Iv
EnvfronmentaltDfrectorate                    Policy
Foarmvation/imple-
rntatian
Institutional
Strengthening of
GMA
Enwironmental
Management and
._____________  __________         _ ..Mitigation
Sectorat Assessment
.=___________________-           _____      Studies                                    = --_____________________________________________________________________________________a
0%
l



