Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3610 PE
                            Loan Agreement
           (Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Project)
                                between
                           REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                  and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated June 28, 1993
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3610 PE
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
     (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
     (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
           "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
     further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
     provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
     Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)   "Administration Agency" means the agency referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
     (b)   "Administration Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and the Administration Agency referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement;
     (c)   "Central-Northern Interconnected System" means MEM's electricity
generation and transmission system for the Central and Northern part of the
Borrower's territory;
     (d)   "CONERG" means the Borrower's Consejo Nacional de Energia
(National Energy Council) established by Decreto Legislativo No. 40 published
in El Peruano of March 5, 1981;
     (e)   "Directorate General of Electricity" means the Direccion General
de Electricidad of MEM;
     (f)   "Directorate General of Environment Matters" means the Direccion
General de Asuntos Ambientales of MEM;
     (g)   "Directorate General of Hydrocarbons" means the Direccion General
de Hidrocarburos of MEM;
     (h)   "Directorate General of Mines" means the Direccion General de
Mineria of MEM;
     (i)   "Electricity Tariff Commission" means the Comision de Tarifas
Electricas created by Decreto Ley No. 25844 published in El Peruano of
November 19, 1992;
     (j)   "Electrolima" means Electrolima S.A. Empresa Regional de Servicio
Publico de Electricidad, the Borrower's electric power company for the city of
Lima;
     (k)   "Electroperu" means Empresa Electricidad del Peru - Electroperu
S.A., the Borrower's national electric power company;
     (l)   "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which starts
on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
     (m)   "MEM" means the Ministry of Energy and Mines of the Borrower;
     (n)   "Operational Guidelines" means the operational guidelines referred
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
     (o)   "Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement;
     (p)   "Public Registry of Mines" means the Registro Publico de Mineria
of the Borrower created by Decreto Legislativo No. 110 published in El Peruano
of June 12, 1981; and
     (q)   "Sector Institutions" means CONERG, the Electricity Tariff
Commission, Electrolima, Electroperu, the new entity referred to in Part C.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the Public Registry of Mines.
                              ARTICLE II
Page  3
                               The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eleven million
eight hundred thousand dollars ($11,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.
     (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
     (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
           (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
                determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
                after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
           (iii)"Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
     (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
           amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
           a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
           determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of
           one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
           2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
           the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
           Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
           Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
Page  4
           the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
           Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
           on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project through MEM and the Sector Institutions with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate public utility,
environmental, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)   Consultants required for the Project but whose services are not to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be employed on the basis of
terms of reference which shall have been provided to the Bank in draft for its
review and comment.
     Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement ("the Administration
Agreement") with an outside agency for the administration of payments under
the Project on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower shall
provide a draft of the Administration Agreement to the Bank for its review and
approval.
     (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Administration
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.04. To assist MEM in the overall management of the Project,
the Borrower shall establish and maintain within MEM a Project coordinating
unit composed of a coordinator and one specialist for each of Parts B, C, D
and E of the Project. The coordinator and each of said specialists shall have
qualifications and experience, and shall be employed on the basis of terms of
reference, acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with operational guidelines and an action plan (including a timetable and
implementation indicators) acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the Borrower's obligations under
Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions:
     (a)   the Borrower shall, at least twice a year, exchange views with the
Bank on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project;
     (b)   prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
and
     (c)   the Borrower shall provide the Bank with a copy of all reports and
recommendations of the consultants engaged to assist in the execution of the
Page  5
Project for its review and comment.
     Section 3.07. All training activities to be carried out under the
Project and to be financed under the Loan shall be set forth in training plans
approved by the Bank.
     Section 3.08. For the purpose of carrying out Part E.3 (b) of the
Project, the Borrower, through the Directorate General of Environment Matters,
shall enter into an agreement with a specialized outside agency on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than four months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                and
           (iii)furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
                from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
           (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
           (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
     (d)   The Borrower shall present to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year, a forecast of the funds for and the
expenditures of the Project for the next fiscal year in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested.
                               ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Bank
Page  6
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that:
     (a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
     (b)   paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligation of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
                              ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)   the Borrower shall have issued the Operational Guidelines in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
     (b)   the Borrower and the Administration Agency shall have entered into
the Administration Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date September 27, 1993 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VII
               Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Minister of Economy and Finance
           Ministry of Economy and Finance
           Jiron Junin 319
           Lima 1, Peru
                                      Fax:
                                        317836
     With copy to:
           Direccion General de Credito Publico
           Jiron Junin 319
           Lima 1, Peru
                                      Fax:
                                        328500
     For the Bank:
           International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
           United States of America
           Cable address:             Telex:
                INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
                                      Fax:
                                        676-1691
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
                      REPUBLIC OF PERU
                      By /s/ Jorge Camet Dickman
                                              Authorized Representative
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                      By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                                Regional Vice President
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean
                              SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated               % of
                             (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'                                         100%
     services and
     technical
     assistance for:
     (a) Part A of                 700,000
         the Project
     (b) Part B of               1,770,000
         the Project
     (c) Part C of               3,540,000
         the Project
     (d) Part D of               3,250,000
         the Project
Page  8
     (e) Part E of                 890,000
         the Project
     (f) Project                   250,000
         Coordinating
         Unit
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated               % of
                             (Expressed in            Expenditures
 Category                    Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(2)  Communications,             1,100,000             100% of foreign
     computing and                                     expenditures and
     ancillary equip-                                  82% of local
     ment                                              expenditures
(3)  Training                    300,000               100%
     __________
     TOTAL                     11,800,000
     ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $1,100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1993; and (b) Categories
(1) (b), (c), (d) and (e), respectively, of such table until the specialists
in, respectively, electricity, hydrocarbons, mining and environment shall have
been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a)
implementing the Borrower's strategies and policies in the energy and mining
sectors, especially demonopolization and privatization of state-owned
enterprises; (b) completing the regulatory reform of the energy and mining
sectors, including environmental regulation; and (c) strengthening the
capabilities of MEM and the Sector Institutions to regulate and monitor the
operations of enterprises in the energy and mining sectors.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to
time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Energy Sector Strategy Evaluation and Strengthening of CONERG
1.   Carrying out of a comprehensive energy sector strategy evaluation
comprising:
     (a)   analysis of the energy requirements of the overall economy and of
the principal energy-consuming sectors and geographic regions;
     (b)   identification of economically viable options to meet energy
requirements adequately, at least cost, and with the least possible impact on
the environment;
Page  9
     (c)   identification of policy impacts and requirements on both the
supply and the demand side; and
     (d)   identification of institutional requirements in terms of
responsibilities, procedures and resources of the Sector Institutions.
2.   On the basis of the work carried out under paragraph 1 (d) above with
respect to CONERG, formulation of a program for institutional strengthening of
CONERG and implementation of such program.
Part B:    Electricity Sector
1.   Completion of the regulatory framework and implementation of the sector
reforms at the level of the Vice Ministry for Energy, particularly with
respect to environmental protection in connection with electricity-related
operations.
2.   Design of an energy management system for the Central-Northern
Interconnected System under the responsibility of Electroperu and Electrolima.
3.   Strengthening of the Directorate General of Electricity through, inter
alia:
     (a)   preparation of model contracts for supply concessions;
     (b)   formulation of methods and instruments for monitoring and
supervising efficient, safe and reliable sector operations;
     (c)   preparation and implementation of a system of registration of
concessions and authorizations for electricity generation for installed
capacities exceeding 500 kW; and
     (d)   formulation of an organization structure for the Directorate
General of Electricity and a training program for its staff, and initial
implementation of such training program.
4.   Institutional strengthening of the Electricity Tariff Commission on the
basis of the work carried out under paragraph 1 (d) of Part A of the Project
with respect to such Commission.
5.   Implementation of the new tariff system.
Part C:    Hydrocarbons Sector
1.   Completion of the regulatory framework and implementation of the sector
reforms at the level of the Vice Ministry for Energy, particularly with
respect to environmental protection in connection with hydrocarbons-related
operations.
2.   Institutional strengthening of the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons,
particularly with respect to the setting of sector norms and standards and
increasing the efficiency and service orientation of the Directorate General
of Hydrocarbons.
3.   Promotion of petroleum exploration and exploitation through the
establishment and institutional strengthening of an autonomous and self-
financing entity under private company law and development and operation of a
comprehensive data bank by such entity.
Part D:    Mining Sector
1.   Completion of the regulatory framework and implementation of the sector
reforms at the level of the Vice Ministry for Mining, particularly with
respect to environmental protection in connection with mining-related
operations.
2.   Execution of a mining promotion program at the level of the Vice
Ministry for Mining.
3.   Establishment of a mining information system within the Directorate
General of Mines.
Page  10
4.   Development and implementation of a new mining cadastral system,
including the establishment of a new mining registry and development of
procedures to process mining concessions.
Part E:    Environmental Protection
1.   Institutional strengthening of the Directorate General of Environment
Matters through organizational strengthening, human resource development and
training, and logistics support.
2.   Strengthening of the policy and regulatory framework for environmental
protection through, inter alia:
     (a)   review and consolidation of all existing regulations into a
consistent framework and preparation of any necessary new regulations;
     (b)   development of environmental operating guidelines for specific
activities;
     (c)   development of air, water, and soil discharge emission standards
and criteria for key indicators (e.g. SO2, NOx, heavy metals); and
     (d)   organization of workshops and seminars to disseminate relevant
policy and regulatory information to industry and to concerned departments of
the Borrower.
3.   Environmental management and mitigation of energy and mining projects
through, inter alia:
     (a)   strengthening of environmental assessment procedures, including
training of the staff of the Directorate General of Environment Matters in
such procedures;
     (b)   monitoring of air, water, and soil quality on a pilot project
basis;
     (c)   establishment of an environmental information system, including:
           (i)  an environmental quality information system, including the
                provision of environmental baseline data and development of
                a capability to predict environmental changes in a proactive
                manner; and
           (ii) expanded library services for the Directorate General of
                Environment Matters;
     (d)   execution of public education and awareness programs; and
     (e)   strengthening of the participation of local and native communities
in energy and mining projects.
4.   Execution of sectoral environmental assessments of the energy and mining
sectors and the development and implementation of action plans to address
specific issues identified in said sectoral environmental assessments.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                  Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due            (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1999                      220,000
August 15, 1999                        230,000
February 15, 2000                      235,000
August 15, 2000                        245,000
February 15, 2001                      255,000
Page  11
August 15, 2001                        265,000
February 15, 2002                      275,000
August 15, 2002                        285,000
February 15, 2003                      295,000
August 15, 2003                        305,000
February 15, 2004                      320,000
August 15, 2004                        330,000
February 15, 2005                      340,000
August 15, 2005                        355,000
February 15, 2006                      370,000
August 15, 2006                        380,000
February 15, 2007                      395,000
August 15, 2007                        410,000
February 15, 2008                      425,000
August 15, 2008                        440,000
February 15, 2009                      460,000
August 15, 2009                        475,000
February 15, 2010                      490,000
August 15, 2010                        510,000
February 15, 2011                      530,000
August 15, 2011                        550,000
February 15, 2012                      570,000
August 15, 2012                        590,000
February 15, 2013                      615,000
August 15, 2013                        635,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                Premium
                            The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
                            per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day of
                            prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years              0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but              0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not             0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not             0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before              1.00
     maturity
                              SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Page  12
Part A:    Procurement Procedures
     Items or groups of items for communications, computing and ancillary
equipment may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55,
2.56 thereof. For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price.
Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.
Part B:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
with respect to each contract for communications, computing and ancillary
equipment, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ general energy, electricity, hydrocarbon, mining and
environmental consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981.
