ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                          AWorld Free of Poverty
ilnfoShop                                                             24623
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/31/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: UGANDA                                 Project ID: P002952
Project: Northern Uganda Social Action Fund     Task Team Leader: Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 12, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 23, 2002                    IDA Amount ($m): 100.00
Managing Unit: AFTHI                            Sector: General education sector (32%); Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (9%); Other social services (20%); Roads &
Status: Lending                                 highways (20%); General water/sanitation/flood
protection sector (19%)
Theme: Other social protection and risk management
(P); Civic engagement; participation and community
driv (P); Conflict prevention & post-conflict
reconstruction (P); Municipal governance and
institution building (S); Social risk mitigation (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
NUSAF will empower communities in Northern Uganda (18 districts located in the North and East) by
enhancing their capacity to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs within their own
values systems, through a social fund within the broad framework of community demand development as
developed within the Bank. It will implement sustainable development initiatives that improve
socio-economic services and opportunities, thereby contributing to improved livelihoods by placing money
in the hands of the communities. Specifically, the project will: (a) strengthen community participation,
leadership development and resource mobilization; (b) improve quality and access to social services and
community-initiated infrastructure; (c) support community reconciliation and conflict management through
local institutions and civil society organizations (CSO); and (d) provide and facilitate support to vulnerable
groups, especially the youth and women affected by conflict; and (e) provide institutional support to build
capacity to manage the project, disseminate information, monitor and evaluate activities as well as
strengthen the local government institutions that provide technical support to the project.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will finance four types of activities:-
(a) Community Development Initiatives (CDI), which would be small discrete sub-projects planned,
managed and implemented by communities through elected committees. (b) Vulnerable Group Support
(VGS) to respond to the needs of children and adults recovering from the effects of war (often needing
assistance from NGOs and CBOs to manage the identified and prioritized sub-project). (c) Community



2
ISDS
Reconciliation and Conflict Management, where communities will be facilitated to use both indigenous and
modern knowledge to promote peaceful development and reduce conflicts. (d) Institutional development at
community, district and national levels to ensure that local capacity is stimulated and developed for
sustainable sub-project management.
The estimated cost of the project is US$100 million over five years; with an additional 10% government
contribution and community contribution (20% under the CDI and 5% under VGS). Community
contribution would mainly be in the form of labour, local materials, and sub-project management time.
Emphasis will be on rehabilitation, and infrastructure which may be rehabilitated or supplied will include:
classrooms, teachers' houses, desks, laboratories, photo-voltaic units toilets/pit latrines, waste disposal,
core text books, sports fields/recreation facilities, water point rehabilitation, boreholes, deep wells, spring
protection, cattle watering facilities, water harvesting, headworks for water points, washing facilities,
nutrition gardens (for the vulnerable). health units 2(5) and 3 (4),drug revolving funds, community cattle
treatment clutch, cattle drugs, fish landing sites, granaries, existing community roads, existing airstrips, etc
and others. Empowering communities to participate actively in their own development initiatives will also
build and improve the trust between communities in the North and government on one hand and local
government and communities on another hand. The preparation for the SAF to address this "development
gap" and support the North is spearheaded by a National Task Force under the Office of the Prime
Minister (OPM), and a concept document has been presented to and approved by IDA as a basis for
preparing an operation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will complement Government efforts to reduce poverty by targeting eighteen (18) districts
located in the political North where development has been hampered by local and cross-border conflicts. It
will assist Government in its efforts to tackle poverty and bring about development through participatory
community efforts that utilize community value systems, which are particularly strong in the family, clan,
and cattle-rearing culture found in Northern Uganda.
Northern Uganda constitutes about half (41 %) of the country, with a projected population of 5.9 million by
2001, which is 26% of the total population. The bulk of the population (90%) are subsistence food crop
producers, which according to the 1999/2000 household survey are the core poor category. A significant
part of the population (about 15% ) are pastoralists and located in areas along Southern Sudan and
Kenya.
The project will be implemented by communities through their sub-projects management committees
(CPMC) and this will improve and/or increase community assets and directly respond to the needs of
vulnerable community members, especially those created by past conditions of war and insecurity. Out All
of the five sub-regions in the North are in a under post conflict situation although, three have had a rather
longer spell and are just emerging from war been affected by war and are in the post-war reconstruction
phase. The project will empower community to rebuild their lives from a group action, with communities
contribution between 5 and 20% of the sub-project costs.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: NUSAF will be implemented with technical facilitation from local government staff, NGOs and
CBOs, as well as private firms as approved by NUSAF MU. The sub-project cycle (see Environmental and
Social Management Framework attachment 1) defines the roles and responsibilities of the different actors by
level during the preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
sub-project. Throughout the cycle, the different sector specialists ensure that: sector norms and standards
are upheld, ongoing and planned sector initiatives are taken into account and budgetary provisions are made
for any recurrent costs that may arise from the proposed sub-project. District Environmental Officers [DEOs]
exist in all the 18 districts and are employees of the local government. Under the IDA supported



3
ISDS
Environmental Management and Capacity Building Project, NEMA will facilitate capacity development of
district officers for-environmental assessment. In districts targeted by NUSAF which are not targeted by the
above mentioned Environmental Management and Capacity Building Project, NUSAF will fund such training
using the training materials NEMA are using.
An Operational Manual containing the various elements relating to planning, approval of plans,
disbursement of funds, implementation and reporting, including EA and mitigation checklists is under
preparation and will be appraised, and includes environmental guidelines and checklists.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   0 Yes 0 No    0l TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      OYes * No     O TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              (J Yes * No   O TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                OYes * No     O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  G Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                     03 Yes * No    0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               C Yes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       ID Yes * No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputted areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
After the initial assessment by the communities and their facilitators, Environmental assessment will be
the responsibility of the District. The District Environmental Officers or people designated by them will
screen proposed subprojects as part of the District Technical Committee [DTC] responsible for the
technical appraisal, and ensure that appropriate environmental assessment of each subproject is carried
out. Before approving a subproject, the DEO on behalf of the DTC, verifies that the subproject meets the
environmental requirements of appropriate, indigenous, national and local authorities and is consistent
with applicable environmental policies of the Bank. NEMA and/or its vetted consultants will train those
DEOs not yet exposed to the EA for community projects as well as familiarity with Bank safeguards
issues, partly through NUSAFs training program, and partly through the training funded under other Bank's
and local donors' environmental projects operational in the selected districts. It is expected that NUSAF
will enhance the capacity for safeguarding environment issues in the local institutions of the Local
Councils [LCl to LC5] as prescribed by the National Constitution. Community sub-projects may not in
each case have negative environmental effects, but the cumulative effects may over time be negative,
thus necessitating a holistic involvement in community driven development on the part of DEOs and their
staff. The Uganda Land Act 1998 now under implementation recognizes that land belongs to the people of
Uganda. The project area is entirely a customary land tenure regime in which communities have full rights
on land based on clans, family and tribal lineage. However, since NUSAF expects to explicitly exclude
sub-projects involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition in its design, OD4.30 will not be
applicable.
Il.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.



4
ISDS
N/A
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The framework for environmental assessment and mitigation checklists in NUSAF attends to relevant
safeguard issues through:
*   Inclusion of environmental concerns in the PRA process supporting communities when prioritizing and
identifying interventions under the CDI component, to enable communities to make environmentally
sound development choices.
*   Defining responsible agents (the district environmental officers, other district technical staff or others
designated by them) and methods for Environmental Assessment (EA) screening in the sub-project
cycle for the components in NUSAF, including designing checklists for interventions in different
sectors. The checklists and screening process will be incorporated in the implementation manuals for
the different NUSAF components and become preconditions for allocation of funds to any proposed
activity.
*   Defining a system for proposing mitigation measures by the communities and local government, to be
included in the design of the activity where EA shows necessity for it.
*   Should any subprojects potentially violate safeguards issues, the NUSAF Management Unit will alert
the office of the Prime Minister who in turn will assess and alert the Bank. This is stated in the
Environment and Social Management framework accompanying this ISDS.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
NUSAF activities are community-based and will be openly discussed in village meetings during the
process of community facilitation, which most often will encourage focused discussion with specific
interest groups like youth, women and elders. These meetings will lead up to sub-project identification,
prioritization, planning and local agreement, which factors in all community groups concerns. This process
is envisioned to bring out specific environmental and social concerns that may be directly affecting a given
community group. Activities are also discussed by, in the elected district assemblies, the Local Councils
(LCs)--LC1 to LCV, that are representation of the various categories of the Ugandan population.and in
planning meetings in the local authorities. All environmrental concerns and mitigation measures will be
discussed and agreed upon during these sessions.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address



5
ISDS
safeguard issues.



6
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               9/21/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           9/21/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            10/18/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED                Not Available
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Available
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Available
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Available
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:            Norbert 0. Mugwagwa                          07/23/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                         07/23/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Dzingai Mutumbuka                           07/23/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
i        CFRr  EA .i LSInri                    WC_ A_  __ IRwC   H l



