Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23885-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 80.1 MILLION
(US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
NORTHERN UGANDA SOCIAL ACTION FUND
June 7, 2002
Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 24, 2002)
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shillitg
Shilling 1 = US$0.0005571
US$1 = 1795 Shillings
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAO        Chief Administrative Office           LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
CAP        Community Action Plan                 LGDP      Local Government Development Program
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy           M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
CDF        Comprehensive Development Framework   MTF       Multi-Sectoral Task Force
CDI        Community Development Initiative      NDTO      NUMU District technical Officer
CNA        Community Needs Assessment            NEMA      National Environment Management Authority
CRCM       Community Reconciliation and Conflict  NSC      National Steering Committee
Management
CSO        Civil Society Organizations           NUMU      NUSAF Management Unit
DDP        District Development Plan             NURP II   Northem Uganda Reconstiuction Program
DSC        District Steering Committee           NUSAF     Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
DTPC       District Technical Planning Committee  OED      Operations Evaluation Department
EMP        Environment Management Plan           OM        Operational Manual
FMH        Financial Management Handbook         OPM       Office of the Prime Minister
GOU        Government of Uganda                  PEAP      Poverty Eradication Action Plan
ID        Institutional Development              PRA       Participatory Rural Appraisal
IDA        International Development Association  PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
IDP        Internally displaced persons          PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IEC        Information, Education and Communication STPC   Sub-county Technical Planning Committee
LA         Local Authorities                     VGS       Vulnerable Group Support
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:    Dzingai B. Mutumnbuka
Task Team Leader:     Norbert 0. Mugwagwa



UGANDA
NORTHERN UGANDA SOCIAL ACTION FUND
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         16
2. Financial                                                                        17
3. Technical                                                                        17
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                    19
6. Social                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23



2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           25
2. Other                                                                              25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       54
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            71
Annex 11: Summary of Project Workplan                                                    73
Annex 12: Community Needs Assessment                                                     74
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Policy                                                        78
MAP(S)
IBRD 23506R



UGANDA
Nortiern Uganda Social Action Fund
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTHI
Date: Jume 7, 2002                               Team Leader: Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor       Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai Mutumbuka
Project iLD: P002952                             Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project,Financing Data
[ Loan      [Xj Credit    [] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $100.00 (estimate)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):-   Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     13.30           0.00         13.30
IDA                                                          98.20           1.80        100.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                            20.20           0.00         20.20
Total:                                                      131.70           1.80        133.50
BorrowFer: GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Responsible agency: TASK FORCE OFFICE OF THE PRIME MiNISTER
Address: OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER, P.O. BOX 341, KAMPALA
Contaci Person: MR. TIMOTHY LUBANGA
Tel: 256-41-251031           Fax: 256-41-341139            Email: <opmcm@africaonline.co.ug>
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
- .FY  l    2002      2003       2004      2005       2006,     2007,
Annual      1.50     11.40      19.60     28.50      28.40     10.60
Cumulative     1.50      12.90     32.50     61.00      89.40     100.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2008
L0 FAD F-0W YcA NA. 2



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF) will empower communities in Northern Uganda (18
districts located in the north and east) by enhancing their capacity to systematically identify, prioritize, and
plan for their needs and implement sustainable development initiatives that improve socio-economic
services and opportunities. In so doing, NUSAF will contribute to improved livelihoods by placing money
and its management in the hands of the communities.
The proposed project complements Government efforts to reduce poverty by targeting eighteen (18)
districts in the five sub-regions in the North: Acholi (Gulu, Kitgum, and Pader), Karamoja (Kotido,
Nakapiripirit, and Moroto), Lango (Apac and Lira), Teso (Kumi, Pallisa, Kaberamaido, Katakwi, and
Soroti), and West Nile (Arua, Yumbe, Adjumani, Moyo, and Nebbi). In these five sub-regions constituting
the North, development has been stifled by both local and international cross-border conflicts as well as
inter and intra-tribal conflicts. It will assist Government in its efforts to tackle poverty and bring about
development through participatory community efforts that utilise community value systems, which are
particularly strong in the family, clan, and cattle-rearing culture found in Northern Uganda.
The proposed NUSAF, a part of the broader Second Northern Uganda Reconstruction Program (NURP II),
will be part of Government's efforts to ensure that the North is able to catch-up with the rest of the
country's development agenda and programs. NURP II is the broad umbrella investment program for
Northern Uganda to which all donors contribute. It is managed by the Office of the Prime Minister.
NUSAF as a project, through direct grants to communities, will: overcome underdevelopment through
community action, leadership development and resource mobilization; strengthen the on-going
reconciliation processes in the region; and make it possible for communities to articulate and prioritize their
specific needs, and manage processes and outcomes, thereby enhancing good governance for peace and
development. NUSAF will utilize processes which create an information-rich project environment that will
encapsulate the entire project-related development experience, and build a dynamic knowledge base that
will document and disseminate the development activities of all the concerned stakeholders. Improved
transparency and accountability will be critical by-products of these processes, leading to better leadership
at all levels, especially at the community level, and strengthening project quality.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A number of key performance indicators will be used to track the progress of NUSAF and updated on
annual basis. Each of the components of NUSAF will have separate indicators (see logframe), but the ones
listed are for the aggregated contributions made by each of the components.
(a)    Input Indicators
* % of Communities contributing to sub-projects in line with agreed levels of contribution.
* No. of civil societies, Local Authorities, Sectors, and other key stakeholders participating in
decision-making processes at all levels, as recorded in minutes of meetings and supervision mission
reports;
* No. of communities that can manage sub-projects, account for money, make decisions, and
maintain community assets.
* No. of technical staff working in an autonomous NUSAF Management Unit as well as at district
level in the North.
-2 -



(b)    Output Indicators
*   14o. of communities trained to identify, prioritize, implement, and manage interventions; as well as
maintain assets created under the project;
*   No. of socio-economic infrastructure facilities initiated, completed and documented by target
groups (rehabilitated or constructed) without cost over-runs;
*   No. of persons reached through IEC interventions per sub-region (disaggregated by gender and
rural/urban split);
*   No. of existing institutions, traditional leaders, and community structures oriented to participate in
peace-building;
*   No. of organizations supported and working with Vulnerable Groups.
*   No. of Districts fully compliant with delivery benchmarks on direct channeling of NUSAF funds to
sub-project implementors.
(c)    Outcome indicators
*   % of population reached by NUSAF through improved socio-economic infrastructure;
*   % of beneficiaries satisfied with community-level projects as reported in Beneficiary Assessments.;
*   No. of women benefitting from project activities.
(d)    Impact indicator
*   % improvement in the Human Development Index (HDI) in the region;
*   % increase in govermment spending for social sectors aligned with NUSAF activities;
*   % changes in health status and school enrollments in participating communities.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-187 (IFC/R2000-202) Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/16/2000
The principal CAS goal supported by the proposed project is the 'reduction of poverty and regional
disparity through targeted investments undertaken in a participatory, equitable and sustainable manner to
promote peace and directly increase the ability of the poor to raise incomes'. The design of NUSAF is
guided by the CAS and PRSP goals and will directly contribute to meeting the various basic social and
economic benchmarks outlined in the CAS.
The Bank's principal goal is to help Government reduce poverty through increased growth and ensure the
equitable distribution of the benefits of this growth. The CAS observes that the relatively poor districts in
Northern and Eastem Uganda have not benefited sufficiently from economic growth and reforms. To this
end, the Bank's program of support under CAS will concentrate on areas covered by the PEAP/PRSP
(discussed by the Board September 2000) and whose goals are to: (i) create an enabling environment for
economic growth and structural transformation, (ii) ensure good governance and security, (iii) directly
increase the ability of the poor to raise incomes, and (iv) directly increase the quality of life of the poor.
The CAS proposes a strategy of targeting the relatively poor eighteen districts in the North and the East.
From lessons learnt from NUIRP I, and particularly its community-based component (the CAP West Nile),
NUSAF will complement existing Bank activities and those of other donors working in the North by
directly increasing the ability of the poor to overcome poverty and enhance their quality of life. NURP I
was funded by the Bank as a rehabilitation emergency project for the Northern districts covered by
NUSAF. Whereas it successfully built socio-economic infrastructure such as roads and schools, its highly
centralized management structure was criticized for failing to adequately respond to community priorities.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The 2001 Uganda Poverty Status Report (UPSR) indicates that about 35% of the population still lives
below the poverty line, and the average per capita income in Uganda is only now approaching the level
achieved in 1970. The report also acknowledges that in spite of a clear and iimpressive decline in poverty
(headcount index) of over 20% over the five-year period from 1992 to 1997, significant regional disparities
in poverty persist. The Northern region has the highest incidence of poverty at 66%, compared to the
Central region's rate of 20%. UNDP's Human Development Report (HDR) 2000 shows that though the
human development index (HDI) has shown significant improvement for Uganda'and now stands at 0.508
nationally, the rates for the Northern (at 0.418) and Eastem (at 0.480) regions are still below the national
average (Central is 0.559 and Western is 0.479). The report further indicates that of the bottom ten (10)
districts with the worst indicators, nine (9) districts are found in the Northern region - the project area.
The historical imbalances in the development of the North have led to increased poverty and conflict -
which is both politically motivated and tied to livelihood insecurity of the communities. The community
needs assessment (CNA) carried out as part of preparation work findings noted that among the majority of
the communities interviewed, feelings of exclusion, weak local participation and leadership have both
fuelled the conflict and slowed down development interventions aimed at reducing poverty and improving
living standards.
One of the most powerful entry points to addressing poverty is through the restoration and transformation
of 'social capital' to meet and improve community participation in food production and security thereby
developing community safety nets. Peace building initiatives by the traditional leaders supported by civic
organizations constitute the linch-pin for survival in the insecure areas by enhancing integration and social
cohesion among the displaced and vulnerable. The organizational integrity of these institutions enables
them to influence local government structures to deliver services to the needy and to promote positive
synergies between the state and civil society in support of the poor.
Results from participatory poverty assessments over the past three years indicate that in addition to
material or income poverty, there are significant non-economic dimensions to poverty that need to be
addressed. Specifically, the poor in Uganda are concerned with the lack of access to basic services (health
care, education, safe water) where 26% of the population does not have access to health services (rate is the
highest in Northern Region at 35% compared to 30% and 20% from the Western and Central regions
respectively. The poor are also concerned about insecurity (in terms of the presence of rebel activity, cattle
raiding and theft) which, according to the UPSR 2001, is "the single reason why poverty has persisted and
increased in some parts of the country.... It (insecurity) has left behind dysfunctional family life systems
that have suffered declines in economic productivity, and increased ill-health". Insecurity in the Northern
Region has become both a cause and consequence of poverty.
In education, despite national efforts to improve quality and access to education through UPE, inequalities
still persist, and the north remains the most disadvantaged. While nationally enrollment levels between
boys and girls are not very different, enrollment of girls in the north remains very poor. The north also has
the biggest proportion of children who have never been to school. The literacy rate for the north is very
low with the literacy rate as low as 12% for Moroto and Kotido, compared to the national average of 58%.
Until recently, the centralized nature of government service delivery has hindered increased access to and
utilization of public services. Decentralization is at the core of the 1995 Constitution and the Local
Government Act of 1997 was passed in order to bring services closer to the beneficiary communities.
- 4 -



Amendrnents made in 2000 have elements which provide for deepening the decentralization process to
enhance community participation, and Government has adopted the Bank-supported LGDP as its
framework to drive decentralization and deepen community empowerment. The LGDP has been piloting a
capacity-building initiative in a number of districts in the country, and some of these districts are in the
North. Difficulties faced by sectors in the full decentralization of services and the inadequate mobilization
of communities to participate in service delivery have provided an added justification for a Social Fund
with its Community Demand-Driven Development strategy. The Government is pursuing a participatory
approach that is advocating the active involvement of beneficiaries, NGOs and the private sector. NUSAF
is being designed at a time when it can facilitate decentralization and allow for an implementation process
that will empower the poor to act within the framework of the Local Government Act.
In order to address social development issues, a draft Social Development Sector Strategic Investment Plan
focusing on the disadvantaged groups is under preparation by a Working Group led by the Ministry of
Gender, Labour and Social Development. In the North, the often marginalised or completely excluded from
the benefits of development and particularly vulnerable to exploitation and income shocks include the
children and youth, orphans, women, people with disabilities, etc. In response to the prevailing situation in
the North, the proposed project will complement Govemment development strategies by support
sustainable social, cultural and economic growth by:
*   strengthening community participation, leadership development and resource mobilization;
*   improving quality and access to social services;
*   supporting community reconciliation and conflict management;
*   providing and facilitating support to vulnerable groups, especially the youth affected by conflict;
and
*   enhancing implementation capacities of the local authorities, CSOs, communities, and the private
sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed NUSAF will operate within community value systems and therefore contribute to good
govemance and security particularly at the local government and community levels. Support will be
provided to children/youth formerly abducted during the civil wars, those who have surrendered and
returned guns in exchange for a changed livelihood (abductees and gun-drop outs), and those whose careers
have been disrupted as a result of the prolonged conflict and breakdown of traditional systems. Vulnerable
Group Support (VGS) will also benefit women-headed households, orphans, widows/widowers, the very
poor, and others affected by conflict.
Interventions that focus primarily on strengthening institutions will be complemented with innovative
approaches that focus on stimulating community demand and farmer response such as PMA, NAADs, and
NUSAF as a way of helping individual households attain levels of development over and above subsistence
living. The proposed NUSAF will provide for the empowerment of individuals and communities through
their active participation in all stages of the sub-project cycle, from identification through implementation
and monitoring in the CDI, VGS and PBCM components. In this way, the poor will be putting forward
their priority developmental needs and suggesting ways to satisfy those needs through the identified sub
projects that will be managed by the communities themselves. The main features of NUSAF specifically
addressing sectoral issues are:-
*   Within the new Health Policy and Health Sector Strategic Plan (2000/01 - 2005/6), emphasis is on
rehabilitation and improvement of existing services, providing new facilities in underserved
- 5-



populations, social mobilization for community empowerment, participation in the management, and
monitoring of health services. These are done through the Local Authorities, and NUSAF will operate
within the same.
*   The national education goal is to make quality education available by involving communities in
identifying the education needs of their own children and of other disadvantaged groups such as
orphans, ex-abductees and returnees, the disabled, etc. Under the School Facility Grant (SFG),
community ownership and increased roles in planning for education are emphasized; and NUSAF will
support the rehabilitation and construction of new classrooms and teachers' houses.
*   In the water suipply and sanitation (WSS) sector, NUSAF will contribute to the sector by promoting
and popularizing conimunity demand-driven approaches to WSS planning and management - to cover
spring water protection, borehole drilling, hand-pumps installation and maintenance, public latrines
construction, etc. in rural areas, small urban centres, and various community-owned facilities..
*   For infrastructure, NUSAF will facilitate the opening and rehabilitation of both community and
peri-urban roads at the request of communities. NGOs, CSOs, private contractors and lower
government units would provide technical services to requesting communities. The project proposes
that, through direct contracting, communities would obtain the services of any one of the agencies to
design, train, construct and maintain the roads, bridges, pavements, etc. under the general technical
guidance of the local authority district engineer.
*   Several other activities like the National Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS), Program for the
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA), and the HIV/AIDS project will be complemented by NUSAF.
Such economnic activities as community granaries or stores, rural markets, valley tanks, cattle drinling
troughs, community dips, woodlots and natural trees will be supported to improve rural life.
In the context of decentralization, communities will be empowered to enhance effective participation
through capacity building activities in LAs, CSOs/NGOs, CBOs, private sector and community groups.
NUSAF will strengthen communities to cope with the prevailing post-conflict situation; and increase
accountability, transparency and responsiveness through direct community funding. It will assist districts
to harmonize development plans prepared through the community demand-driven process within
multi-sector plans; and thus deepen decentralization to the lower levels of government - the sub-county,
parish and village by:
(i)  strengthening community participation and resource mobilization for social and economic
development at the village, parish and sub-county levels;
(ii)  accelerating community investment in basic social and economic infrastructure to improve social
service delivery in a gender-sensitive manner,
(iii) facilitating linkages of the vulnerable groups to agencies with stronger comparative advantage but
still supportive of activities directly implemented by communities;
(iv) facilitating community peace-building and conflict management, both of which are on-going and
considered critical for effective and sustainable community participation; and
(v)  enhancing the implementation capacities of the local authorities, CSOs/NGOs/CBOs and the private
sector working directly with communities.
- 6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(1) Community Development Initiatives ICDII-Total US$97.2 million (IDA US$ 68.5 million)
The CDI component would finance demand-driven community-based initiatives to construct and
rehabilitate small-scale socio-economic infrastructure guided by a sub-project menu that conforms to the
specific sector policies. Through open-ended facilitation, communities would be able to participate in
identifying and prioritizing their needs, followed by planning, implementing and managing sub-projects
through Local Authorities (LAs), CSOs, NGOs and private individuals and agencies whom they will
directly contract. If not found acceptable within the Social Fund menu, commnunities will be linked to
other relevant existing programs so that their development needs can still be met. The choice of sub-project
menu will include inter alia: construction, rehabilitation or provision of the basic social fund activities in
health, education, water, afforestation, terracing and other modes of soil conservations, village roads and
bridges, community centers, community cultural activities, food processing technologies and other
appropriate technologies, energy efficiency technologies, and training. Local environmental assessment will
be done for all subprojects as one step in the sub-project cycle, as provided for in the Environmental and
Social Management Plan. Community contributions would be at least 20% of sub-project costs. A
negative list would include micro-credit and any project involving involuntary resettlement In addition,
NUSAF would not fund sub-projects that are above US$ 20,000 except when those sub-projects are
approved by the LAs and endorsed by the NSC at the recommendation of the NUMU, subject to an
absolute cap of US$ 50,000 per sub-project. It is estimated that about 30% of population (2.5 million
people) of the North will be reached by the component within 5 years in the 18 districts covered by
NUSAF.
(2) Vulnerable Groups Support Sub-Projects IVGSI- Total US$22.3 million (IDA US$ 20.0 million)
This component would provide support to vulnerable groups; LAs, CSOs/NGOs/CBOs, and institutions
that directly work with these groups. The vulnerable include inter alia: the internally displaced persons
(IDPs), children who have been abducted by various armies (ex-abductees); youth who have given up guns
for peaceful livelihood alternatives (gundropouts), youth whose lives have been disrupted by the long civil
strife, the aged, female headed households, HIl/AIDS affected and people living with HIV/AIDS, orphans
and foster parents, the destitute and the disabled. Through a participatory process, vulnerable groups in the
region will be identified and supported to develop interventions that contribute to improvements in their
livelihood. Activities under this component would include rehabilitation and expansion of training facilities
to provide vocational skills; sponsorships for youths to undergo vocational/life skills training (masonry,
carpentry, tailoring, blacksmiths, welding, etc.), provision of tool-kits upon their graduation to work on
sub-projects, financing new and ongoing income generating activities, and provision of support services to
female headed households and other disadvantaged groups. It will enhance capacities of the private sector
and CSOs in mainstreaming the VGSs into national development program. On their part, vulnerable
groups would make a contribution of at least 5% of sub-projects costs.
(3) Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management Component ICRCMI-Total US$ 2.8 million
(IDA US$ 2.5 million)
-7 -



The component would provide support to traditional and non-traditional approaches to peace building and
conflict management. Traditional approaches include holding reconciliation meetings and/or negotiations
between clans and/or tribes; supporting inter-tribal dialogue including visits to other districts; cleansing of
reporters and returnees, and counselling and provision of psyco-social support to retumees, ex-abductees,
gun-drop-outs, and the receiving communities. Non-traditional methods, which include PRAs to enhance
community dialogue and facilitate 'social capital' resuscitation, would be promoted by LAs, NGOs and
CSOs operating at all levels. These approaches will (a) build strong ties (integration) within and between
war-tom societies that are needed to cope with transitional shocks and thereby regenerate community safety
nets; (b) facilitate intra- and inter-clans and tribal linkages needed within and among the sub-regions; (c)
develop synergies with formal and national institutions needed to build trust and confidence in irnproving
State-LAs-community relations, and ensure enhanced inclusiveness in the planning and management of
development activities. CRCM activities will be primarily concentrated in the three sub-regions of
Karamoja, Acholi and West Nile, and each community would contribute at least 5% of the activity costs.
(4) Institutional Development component-Total US$11.2 (IDA US$ 9.0m) million
This component will support the staffing of a small autonomous NUSAF Management Unit (NUMU),
capacity building and training, IEC and M&E/MIS for different sets of stakeholders.
NUSAF Management Unit (NllMU): Headed by an Executive Director (ED) who will be selected
competitively, NUMU will be established and preferably located in a suitable town in the North to oversee
the implementation of project activities. The ED would be supported by contracted technical directors
responsible for the CDI, VGS and CRCM and Finance and Administration, as well as experts in EEC,
Monitoring and Evaluation, Management Information System, procurement, infrastructure, internal audit
and administration. There will be a designated person coordinating the framework for environmental
assessment and safeguards issues as outlined in the ESMP and the Operational Manual. NUMU will also
have a small presence in the Office of the Prime Minister in Kampala to maintain contact with various
national-level agencies and the NUSAF National Steering Committee comprising of government, civil
society, and private sector representatives. There will also be district-level staff (Technical Officer and
Accounts Assistant) technically responsible to NUMU and administratively under the CAO, to facilitate
interaction between Community Project Management Committees (CPMCs) and district-level sectoral
officers during project preparation, appraisal, and implementation. The multi-sectoral District Technical
Planning Committee (DTPC) and Sub-County Technical Planning Committee (STPC), which are already
in place, will be facilitated to provide appropriate integration and coordination of NUSAF activities into the
workings of Local Govemment and technical agencies representing sectoral line ministries, as well as to
define the role of NGOs and CSOs .
The capacity building and training initiatives will be articulated through workshops and seminars, as
appropriate, and will focus on familiarizing the concemed stakeholders with the philosophy, principles, and
methodology of the project. Technical capacity to implement the project would include basic book-keeping
and accountancy skills, inclusive planning, management and administration of participatory development at
all levels, as well as basic skills in assessing local environmental effects of subprojects.
EEC initiatives will seek to inform and educate the concemed stakeholders on the objectives, processes and
activities of the project and the roles of the different actors as well as to obtain and transmit from the
stakeholders their views and responses to project needs. This initiative will also contribute to the formation
of sustainable alliances and partnerships between communities, CSOs, NGOs and government officials by
clearly articulating the roles and responsibilities of the different actors concemed. Media appropriate to
Northem Uganda will be identified and used and these will include radio, drama and song and print.
- 8 -



Information needs assessments, message development and impact evaluations will also be financed. The
initiative will foster community empowerment, transparency and accountability.
Effective Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) arrangements will be integral to project design and
implementation through a community-based M&E. The M&E will require appropriate monitoring
indicators, and a Management Information System ( MIS) will be designed and implemented to assist in
tracking the progress of the project, including cumulative environmental effects, at district and national
levels.
Poverty monitoring ana analysis within the national systems used by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics
(UBOS) through its frequent household surveys will be undertaken. Some gaps (such as lack of data at
district level, and inadequate information on vulnerability and conflict) have been identified, which NUSAF
will address within the existing UBOS survey instruments. Mid-term and end-of-project surveys and
analysis will also be undertaken to assess the project's effectiveness in reaching the target communities and
households (see Annex 2 and Project Operational Manual).
Indicative'            Bank-      °hof
Component       ~    , .  - - Sector] -   . Costs'- ',%,of   financing-   Bank-
-   j1 '   ' (US$M)r  Total  I(U$M)' -flnancing
Community Development Initiatives                      97.20      72.8     68.50       68.5
Vulnerable Group Support                               22.30      16.7     20.00       20.0
Community Reconciliation and Conflict                   2.80       2.1      2.50        2.5
Management
Institutional Development                              11.20       8.4       9.00       9.0
Total Project Costs                  133.50     100.0    100.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   133.50      100.0    100.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As the proposed project focuses on poverty reduction and the improvement of peace, basic social and
economic infrastructure and service delivery, it is considered part of the Bank's core lending program.
Reforms in support of the program are being developed and agreed with GOU in the context of the PRSC I
matrix. The PRSC II is due to be presented to the Board at the same time as NUSAF. Benchmarks and
targets relating to macro-economic reform, fiscal performance and social sector resource allocation are
provided in the Government MTEF and are acceptable to the Bank. The NUSAF sub-project cycle
processing and flow of funds will uphold a three-way institutional linkage that recognizes the traditional
roles of (a) the local authorities (district and sub-county councils) in - decision making and approval with
regard to sub-projects, their inclusion in the district plans and resources allocated; (b) technical committees
(district and sub-county) for appraising and ensuring technical compliance with sectoral norms and
standards, including environmental assessment; and (c) communities, CPMCs, CSOs, NGOs and private
sector as originators and processors of sub-project proposals.
At the district level, in order to assist the local authorities manage community-driven development more
efficiently, performance benchmarks will be set in the key areas of the sub-project cycle. The LAs would
progressively be allocated more NUSAF funds based on their attainment of performance benchmnarks
against a schedule of community sub-project requests per the sub-project cycle, i.e. length of community
facilitation, appraisal, approval, release of funds to the CPMC, implementation, frequency of supervision,
reporting and monitoring, and completion time. Final benchmarks will be agreed upon between NUSAF
and Districts based on findings during the "trail-blazing" phase, to ensure that local experiences are
-9-



incorporated in the setting of realistic targets.
3. Benefits and target population:
NUSAF will support activities identified by communities which might not only meet community needs, but
also increase employment opportunities for poor households and vulnerable groups in both rural and urban
areas. Increased cash income earning opportunities for the poor and vulnerable groups would lead to
improved living standards for these groups. This would substantially lead to the alleviation of conflict
particularly from the redundant and unemployed youth in the sub-region. Because the project menu
concentrates on the provision of primary services, the project will benefit needier, rural and poorer
communities. Approximately 30% of the population (2.5 million people) would be covered by NUSAF.
NUSAF, using available district level indicators has, in addition to per capita resource allocation,
incorporated poverty and service accessibility information, as well as other pertinent indicators such as
vulnerability and conflict indicators to allocate resources to districts (see Annex 4 and Project's Operational
Manual). This exercise should also serve as a monitoring mechanism by assessing if districts have met their
targets and if not, how to stimulate demand within those districts where comnunity take-up is slow
(through a more intensive EEC and PRA efforts). Further information on vulnerability would be obtained
from the on-going World Food Prograrm's vulnerability mapping.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
National Level: The institutional arrangements for NUSAF were finalized during negotiations and uphold
the principles of community-driven development to improve the livelihoods of the poor by directly funding
their priorities. NUSAF's main focus will be reaching the comnunities and empowering them to demand
quality services from the sub-county, district and national levels. NUSAF falls within the broad Second
Northem Uganda Reconstruction Program (NURP II) under the policy guidance of the Minister of State for
Northern Uganda Rehabilitation in the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) through a NURP II Policy
Committee (NPC). A NUSAF National Steering Committee (NSC) will be appointed by the Prime
Minister, to oversee the technical supervision of a semi-autonomous NUSAF Management Unit (NUMU),
and would comprise of the Permanent Secretary to OPM as Chairperson and NUSAF Executive Director
as Secretary, representatives of government, civil society and the private sector. It will provide overall
management guidance to the project, coordinate sector linkages, approve NUSAF budget, annual
workplans and sub-projects above the threshold, monitor, and evaluate overall project implementation and
impact.
NUMU will ensure that NUSAF operates according to the Operational Manual (OM); initiate promotion
activities for NUSAF in the North; assist district level staff; manage project performance including
implementation and financial management of operations; provide technical supervision of sub-projects;
monitor cumulative environmental effects and safeguards issues; build capacity at district and community
levels and prepare and submit quarterly and annual reports. Those districts that already have the core
capacities and competencies would indicate where they need relevant assistance from NUSAF either to
meet community delivery benchmarks or perform beyond the project life.
Monitoring and evaluation of NUSAF activities would be carried out within the national level poverty
monitoring and analysis systems in use by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) through its frequent
household surveys. NUSAF proposes to undertake complimentary surveys within the existing survey
instruments to address some gaps and to provide baseline and end-of-project information, while a
beneficiary assessment would be used to provide information at mid-term.
- 10-



District Level: A multi-sectoral Technical Planning Committee (TPC) exists both at the District (DTPC)
and Sub-County levels (STPC). There is also a Parish Development Committee (PDC) at LC II level. In
line with their existing mandates, these technical committees will provide appropriate support to ensure that
NUSAF activities are: appropriately appraised, approved and integrated into the budgets and work
programs of the respective local governments and technical agencies representing sectoral line ministries;
and that the appropriate environmental checklists are used for each sub-project and mitigation measures are
adequately costed and implemented in the sub-project. The CAO, Sub-County Chief (SCC) and Parish
Chief (PC) chair the committee meetings at the district, sub-county and parish levels respectively. They or
their selected representatives will facilitate the incorporation of the NUSAF funds into the budget; provide,
where possible, LA contributions to the comnmunity action plans; and forge effective linkages and ensure
synergies between NUSAF and existing programs, using the institutional arrangements existing at the
village, parish, sub-county, and district levels. The role of NGOs and CSOs will also be mediated through
the DTPC as reflected in the Local Government Acts 2000. District staff would ensure that the EEC
materials are appropriate and relevant to the local audience. District Environmental officers will ensure
environmental assessment procedures detailed in the ESMP and OM are followed for all sub-project, and
will determine any particular environmental problems to be aware of in the district, as well as suggest
suitable mitigation measures if not covered in the checklists in the OM and handbooks. They will also
monitor cumulative effects on the environment and alert NUMU if any safeguard issues come up. Capacity
building would also be undertaken for NUSAF staff as well as regional and district agencies in the use of
procedures, systems and criteria for supporting community-demand driven projects.
The District Council, through the District Executive Committee (DEC), retains the authority to approve
annual plans and budgets, and receive sub-projects performance monitoring reports routinely submitted by
the DTPC.
Community Level: A community is "need" defined and may include a number of households, villages, a
parish or a sub-county. The key principle is that the "need" is identified and prioritized in a participatory
manner and the community must be willing to contribute 5 to 20% of the total project costs in kind (time,
labour, materials, etc.) or cash to the sub-project activities. Initially, the communities are mobilized by the
existing local government (parish, sub-county and district) councils/development committees, and social
institutions (clan leaders, chiefs, etc.) with or without the support of the community facilitators who can be
individuals, CBOs or extension workers such as the community development assistants. Since communities
know their environmental problems better than most outsiders, they will be assessing how these can be
mitigated in or by sub-projects. At the project level, the critical institution will be a Community Project
Management Committee (CPMC), which will be constituted from stakeholders and with a minimum of
30% women. This CPMC will have the leadership role during project design, appraisal, implementation,
and monitoring. The CPMC will open project accounts and receive, disburse and account for resources
raised by communities and allocated by NUSAF to the project.
The wide range of procedures and processes necessary for the effective implementation of NUSAF is
articulated in the OM supported by a number of subject specific handbooks. The manuals will contain
detailed checklists for local environmental assessment and mitigation measures. These manuals will be
developed and tested during a pilot phase to be funded through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
Relevant Manuals will be translated and/or simplified for district audience and CPMCs.
Financial Management: Issues relating to country specific public sector accounting and reporting have
been documented in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out by IDA in
collaboration with the GoU, which indicates that inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both
at the center and in the districts pose a major fiduciary risk. With the support of a number of donor assisted
- 1 1 -



initiatives, Government is seeking to rapidly enhance the financial accountability framework.
The key risks that the project may face in meeting its financial management objectives relate to staff
adequacy, the usage and approval of project funds, reliability of financial information, sufficiency of
counterpart funds, ignorance of procedures and organizational rules, delivery of resources to communities
and their structures, and the identification of community needs. In mitigation of these, NUMU will:
establish a strong internal control system; provide for technical support to project committees and retain the
option of contracting out accounting and internal audit services; establish clear guidelines for the approval
of sub-projects and ensure that sub-projects above a certain threshold will require central approval.
Sub-project accountability guidelines will also be issued. In addition: the National Steering Committee will
provide overall policy guidance in the usage and stewardship of project funds and beneficiary communities
will be involved in the monitoring process; internal and external verification of expenditures will be carried
out; performance benchmarks for the speed of transfers will be established; funds will be transferred
directly from NUMU to implementing agencies where the risk necessitates this; participatory planning
approaches will be used in developing sub-projects and NUMU will provide for support to district planning
functions.
The disbursement of the IDA Credit to the project will be done quarterly based on Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs). The project will disburse funds from its bank accounts either to: the District Councils for
Multi-Community projects whose implementation will be the responsibility of the District or for CPMCs
once the agreed benchmarks have been met; CSOs including NGOs/CBOs for projects targeted at
vulnerable groups and CRCM; or directly to Community Project Management Committees (CPMCs)
before the districts take over the disbursement function. The GOU will provide counterpart funds
amounting to 10% of the total project costs. Communities will be expected to contribute between 5% and
20% to the sub-projects funded under NUSAF.
The project's Intemal Audit Department will conduct ongoing monitoring of intemal control system in
support of the intemal audit processes for communities and local governments. The Auditor General will be
responsible for the extemal audit of the project and the relevant local govemment accounts. The cost of the
audit will be financed from the IDA Credit. The project's audited financial statements will be submitted to
IDA within six months after end of each financial year.
A plan of action will be undertaken by the project to establish a strong financial management system. The
action plan should be fully completed by December 31, 2002. However, the project will have the following
by Credit Effectiveness: a Financial Management Handbook; suitably qualified and competent key staff; a
reporting structure for both intemal management and extemal needs with agreed formats; a Chart of
Accounts; and suitable monitoring arrangements
The project will computerize its accounting system by October 31, 2002 and develop a training program
for the accounting staff in NUMU, districts and other implementing entities by 31 December 2002. Audit
Terms of Reference will also be prepared by the same date. Details of the project's financial management
arrangements are set out in annex 5 to the PAD.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The choice for alternatives were informed by a comprehensive consultative process characterised by the
following activities:
- 12 -



*   Outcome of consultations between the OPM (led by the Minister for the North and Principal Secretary
for OPM) and the Bank (led by the CD and the TTL) in February 2000, lessons learnt from NURP I,
based on the ICR report and OED audit report of May 11, 2000.
* A Government's draft concept paper prepared in July 2000,
*   Concept Development Consultative Workshops held in Soroti with a broad array of district level
stakeholders in November 2000 and May 2001 (see Workshop Proceedings).
* Best practices and findings from similar social funds in Uganda (e.g. CAP West Nile, DDP, EDF and
NGOs activities).
The NURP I approach (an alternative to a social fund approach) which works through line ministries with
at centrally managed unit was rejected by both Government and beneficiary representatives during the
concept workshop held in Soroti in October 2000. The challenges of the North are multi-sectoral and
therefore difficult to be managed by a single sector ministry. Besides, experience from NURP I has shown
that line ministries are less responsive to bottom-up approaches because of the top-down centralized
bureaucratic approach of the public sector. The OED report also acknowledged that the centrally managed
NURP I was unable to provide close follow-up of sub-projects.
1Funding through a SWAP was also rejected for its supply-driven approach, lack of a champion for
demand-driven development, and inability to reconcile the needs of central ministries with those of
communities.
Intemational experiences have also informed the choices and provided reasons for rejecting altematives
(uring the initial discussions with Govermment and stakeholders. What has emerged as best practice in
lJganda and supported elsewhere include the following:
(i)    The need for an autonomous or semi-autonomous implementation unit to provide flexibility in
responses to diverse community demands which are beyond LA's mandates and to manage
expectations of LAs and communities, particularly the vulnerable groups;
(ii)   There is demand for high quality technical support to project committees, suggesting the need for
closer follow-up and backstopping to these levels;
I iii)  There is need for participatory skills in facilitation at the community levels, to build capacities and
to align community needs with available support;
Iiv)   Direct funding of community project committees improves accountability, transparency, and
capacity development in grass-roots institutions.
The current decentralization framework, the LGDP/DDP promoted by Government, is relevant to the work
of NUSAF. However, this framework presupposes that local planning approaches are inclusive, but in
many cases in Northern Uganda the currently established planning processes and mechanisms do not work
effectively at the lower level to ensure this. NUSAF is complementary to LGDP, emphasizing a bottom-up
planning process, use of participatory methodologies to enable the poor to express their needs and direct
community financing in an inclusive and pro-poor-oriented manner. Thus, collaboration with LGDP was
adopted instead of immediate integration until such time as Districts have adopted Social Funds principles
in their dealings with communities and their representatives.
On this basis, the Government strongly emphasizes the need for quick action in the North to support
communities, whose expectations have been raised and left unmet over the years. There is also strong
emphasis on the appropriate targeting of beneficiaries, accountability, transparency and a demand-driven
approach that builds on action-research-action and which will allow communities to pro-actively identify
their priorities. NUSAF is therefore seen as a strategy which "provides an opportunity for the community
-13-



in Northern Uganda to take charge of their social and economic development process, thereby nurturing a
sense of self-esteem and self importance while lessening the feeling of powerlessness and dependency"
(Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project (UPPAP) Report, 2000).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
NECDP-Nutrition and Early Childhood UG-PE-P046870                 S             S
Development Project (FY98)
HIV/AlDS Control Project (FYOO/01) UG-PE-P044679                   S            S
NAADS-National Agricultural       UG-PE-P050438                    S            S
Advisory Services Project (FYOO/01)
LGDP-Local Government             UG-PE-P002941                    S            S
Development Project (FY00)
Uganda Poverty Reduction Support  UG-PE-P050439                    S            S
Credit I (FY01)
Lake Victoria Environment (FY97)  UG-PE-P046836                    S            S
Agricultural Research & Training  UG-PE-P002970                    S            S
Project (FY99)
Other development agencies
ADF                               NW Small Holders Agric.
Project-West Nile Sub-region
EU                                Acholil and Program
EU                                Karamoja Development Project
UNICEF                            Conflict Prevention, Mitigation
and Response through Capacity
Building and Social Service
Delivery
USAID                             Humanitarian Assistance, Food
Security and Psycho-social and
Reintegration of Child Soldiers
UNDP                              Peace Building Support
ICRC                              Livelihood Support Project
The Netherlands                   District Development Programs
Denmark                           Feeder Roads Rehabilitation
and Support to NGOs for
Abducted Children
United Kingdom                    Peace Building and Capacity
Building
Italian Government                Support to Sudanese Refugees
and Internally Displaced
Persons
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 14 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Social funds and decentralized community-based activities are not completely new in Uganda. A number
of other small-scale social action funds are being implemented by NGOs in the country. Since the NUSAF
operation is largely in a post-conflict situation, there are lessons to be learnt from several programs and
projects. The CAP West Nile (1992 to 1999), WEP West Nile (1996 to 1999), the DDP (1998 to-date) in
Arua and Kotido districts in the North, and EDF micro-project in the West Nile region are among the
projects with useful lessons for NUSAF.
Central management of project activities emerged as one of the challenges of the DDP. The strong
"institutional focus" and reliance solely on the public sector that characterized the approach led to delays in
financial transfers, accountability and delivery of needed services. Accountability was housed within the
local government system, which lacked the capacity and personnel to undertake these responsibilities. The
poor revenue base at the district level impeded the implementation of the project since public servants at the
lower levels experienced delays in salary payment for a long time. Poor local revenue collection also
affected sub-county and district contributions for co-financing as required by the project. These problems
seem to have been overcome in the CAP West Nile, where there was autonomy in the management system
and where funds were disbursed directly to the communities. Under the CAP West Nile, some of the
challenges reported include delay in implementation as a result of poor technical support from line
ministries to the community; hence the need for elaborate NUSAF district structures. Another pertinent
challenge that reflects the post-war situation is how to overcome delays in the implementation of projects
through strict adherence to agreements, closer supervision by program officers, and incentives to
communities that adhere to planned project delivery times.
Social funds emerged in the 1980s in response to emergency situations - natural or man-made disasters,
external shocks, deep structural changes in the economy, or sometimes a combination of these. A recent
review of sixteen IDA funded social funds, nineteen public works and employment operations Numerous
ICRs, studies and evaluations are available from various Bank units, sector networks and the OED, and
experience from other operations has been used during the design of the proposed project. The main
lessons leamed from successful operations in Uganda and intemationally (Malawi, Tanzania, Zambia,
Sierra Leone, Rwanda, etc.) are reflected in the proposed project design:-
(a)    Start with a pilot phase to test and finalize operating procedures;
(b)    Respond to demand and systematically involve clients/stakeholders;
(c)    Mobilize local resources and continue to build local capacity;
(d)    Set clear targets for capacity building and achievements in socio-economic infrastructure
construction;
(e)    Use a technically sound implementation unit to coordinate across sectors; and
(f)    Promote autonomy, transparency and accountability at district and community levels.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government through OPM has taken the initiative and full ownership of project preparation by
establishing a multi-sectoral Task Force (MTF), whose membership is drawn from NGOs working in the
North and Ministries of Gender, Community Development and Labour (MoGCL); Education and Sports
(MoES); Health (MOH); Water, Lands and Environemnt (MOWLE); Local Govemment (MoLG); Finance
and Economic Development (MoFED); Agriculture, Animals Industries and Fisheries (MAAIF); Works
and Communications (MoWC); and the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA). This
institutional set-up to prepare the project has recorded the following achievements:-
- 15 -



* Policy dialogue on the need and potential for establishing a social fund was carried out at the highest
levels of Government, and later endorsed by the district representatives during two government
workshops in October 2000 and May 2001.
* A draft concept paper providing background information and project rationale for the Govermment's
request was prepared through several working groups that include sector specialists, donor and
NGO/CSO representatives in detailing out each of the three components.
*   The Office of the Prime Minister (OPM), in consultation with an Advisory Group made up of the
Economnic Policy Research Center (EPRC), the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS), the Poverty
Monitoring and Analysis Unit (PMAU) at the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development, and District Planners collaborated in the development of a targeting methodology for
NUSAF to assist in the identification of the priority areas for project resource allocation.
*   Minister of State for Northem Uganda Rehabilitation, who chairs the donor sub-group on the North,
has kept the donors informed of the developments in the North and on NUSAF. The donor groups for
the North and on Decentralization were continually briefed on progress during preparation, formally
wrote to OPM endorsing NUSAF and appointed two representatives to the MTF who participated in
review meeting that endorsed the draft PAD.
*   Govemment has accessed a PPF to finalize preparation and piloting of NUSAF activities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Under the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), the Bank's strategy is to focus on activities in
which it has a comparative advantage over other donors. In the partnership matrix for the country, the
Bank has significantly placed its focus on improving the quality of life and incomes of the poor under the
PEAP, and in moving forward macro-economnic issues. The Bank has also experience in working
successfully with social funds during the last decade, and this is relevant to the Govemment's request for
assistance. The Bank is a key stakeholder in the areas of fiscal and macro-economic measures, Local
Government restructuring, and civil service reforms. Govemment wants the Bank to take a leading role in
NUSAF as it coordinates various interventions, and fosters improved integration. On-going IDA financed
operations in relevant sectors such as education, health, roads, post conflict, water and sanitation, and rural
development puts it a unique position to assist the Government in addressing several cross-sectoral issues.
Social funds require donor co-ordination, and although the Government unequivocally has taken the lead, it
welcomes Bank support to coordinate and leverage additional resources if necessary.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Public financing of NUSAF is justified by very high rates of poverty in the North, as well as by the fact
that NUSAF supports sub-projects with high social rates of return, but low private rates of return (e.g.
public health, primary education, and community mobilization). NUSAF incorporates cost efficiency and
sustainability criteria for the approval of sub-projects, and unit costs are expected to be considerably less
than other top-down sectoral programs. In addition, NUSAF's low overhead and use of existing district
level staff, will make the project a cost-effective means of executing activities.
A district-level indicative resource allocation / targeting exercise has been undertaken by utilizing district
poverty, social service accessibility, and other relevant indicators, such as vulnerability and conflict
Project finance is allocated according to the overall ranking based on the indicators. Such an exercise
- 16-



reinforces the poverty reduction and targeting objectives of the project, having taken into consideration
patterns of sectoral recurrent and capital expenditures, particularly in the social sectors. District officers
(District Planning Officers, DEO, DMO, etc.) will be involved in selecting sub-projects and must ensure
that recurrent financing will be available.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The budgetary impact of the project needs to be taken into account, especially the recurrent cost
implications of the demand driven social sector investments and their potential for negative fiscal effects.
Similarly, the financial analysis should take into account the resources generated and savings created
through the community participation, if any. Reference should be made to ongoing or planned cost-recovery
efforts in the various sectors (education, health and water), if any, and their impact on the efficient use of
basic social and economic services.
Fiscal Impact:
NUSAF operates under a project modality consistent with the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF), rather than providing direct budgetary support such as Poverty Reduction Support Credits
(PRSCs). For projects which the Districts will disburse funds to, a Special Account for NUSAF activities
will operate. Districts will reflect the additional recurrent budget requirement for NUSAF sub-projects
within the following year's District budgetary plans within the MTEF, if they are not already accounted for
in the current year plans.
3. Technical:
The major technical issues that should be addressed / taken into account during project preparation (and as
part of the economic analysis) are:
* poverty analysis and, related, demand and (self-) targeting,
* absorptive capacity at various levels, particularly at the parish, sub-county and community levels -
which raises the issue of availability of skills for both facilitation and implementation in the short-run;
* transparency, accountability and financial management; and
* continuous monitoring and evaluation, including the establishment of baseline data.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The NUMU will be established in the town of Gulu and will be responsible for executing the project on
behalf of the OPM. It will be semi-autonomous and staffed with skilled personnel, on contract, with
responsibilities for technical oversight of the project activities. At the district levels, there will be a
Technical Officer and an accounts assistant, within the District Planning Unit - which will constitute part
of the DTPC. A NSC comprising of civil society, government and local opinion leaders is to be established,
to oversee policy issues and operational guidelines. The NSC will advise the Minister of State for Northem
Uganda Rehabilitation and the NPC on how linkages to other actors at the district and national levels can
be created.
4.2 Project management:
NUMU will manage the project on behalf of the govenmment with support of the NDTO, and CSOs, NGOs,
private sector and CPMCs working as community facilitators (CFs) as well as extension staff at the
sub-county levels and below. The NUMU will be established and staffed by long term Technical Assistants
-17 -



(TAs) using the PPF in the interim and will report to the Permanent Secretary through the Department of
Pacification, in the OPM. This unit will work very closely with the current Multi-sectoral Task Force
(MTF), to define the required operational structure at the regional, district and sub-county levels. It is
suggested that institutional capacity constraints among key actors that will be involved in the
implementation of the project require careful consideration especially, but not only, at the sub-county level.
Under the PPF, proposed studies to implement and streamline the management issues include IEC, MIS,
institutional arrangement, financial and procurement management. An exposure trip to countries
implementing similar projects in the region will be organized to facilitate the learning process.
4.3 Procurement issues:
NUMU headed by the Executive Director will manage the overall procurement under the project which
involves consultants, equipment, motor vehicles, computers, office furniture and consumables for the
regional and district units using a mix of national and international procurement procedures depending on
the size of the goods and services. The NDTO will coordinate project activities at the district level.
Sub-project related procurement will be carried out by the CPMCs supported by the DTO using
community procurement procedures. The CSOs/NGOs, Interfaith and private sector as well as the local
authorities will carry out procurement related to specialized small scale activities they directly execute,
using local tender procedures. Lessons learnt from both community procurement and LA, CSO/NGO
procurement would enrich both local and national procurement procedures.
An OM, a living document, has been prepared by the Government and will be continuously modified,
subject to agreements between GOU and IDA, as new lessons are leamed and incorporated for future use.
More details on how the components will be implemnented are described in Handbooks such as the
Procurement, Financial Management and Administration Handbooks.
NUMU will prepare a draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) which will be updated annually and
submitted to IDA. The GPN will describe the procurement of goods and services; this will be finalized and
published in the United Nations Development Business and in local papers immediately after negotiations.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The NUSAF Executive Director will be responsible to the NSC for all the financial activities of the Fund.
The Director of Finance and Administration (DOFA) will report to him and be responsible for the Fund's
Rules and Regulations regarding finances and administration. NUMU will keep proper books of accounts
and maintain other financial records which conform to established international accounting standards.
NUMU will establish the necessary bank accounts at national and district levels. Communities, LAs,
CSOs, NGOs, and the private sector agencies will open bank accounts specifically for the project funds
and account for them periodically as specified in the OM. NUMU will transfer funds directly into the
relevant project accounts and keep a data base of all project accounts. In addition to periodic overall audits
to be carried out by the NUMU internal auditor, employed under NUSAF, GOU district level internal
auditors will carry out routine audits to ensure compliance with financial accountability rules and
regulations in respect to those activities managed by the local authority. Decisions following the Fiscal
Decentralization Study strategy proposals are likely to affect how financial flows within LAs are
processed. NUSAF will monitor the effects of this on its systems and make the necessary adjustments.
A detailed description of country specific risks and issues, as well as an assessment of the financial
management arrangements for the project are contained in annex 5 of the PAD. The annex also describes
the flow of funds between IDA, the project and its beneficiaries, and actions required to establish an
appropriate financial management system.
- 18 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The OPM has worked closely with the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) on the
preparation of a simple ESMP which sets out the system to be used for creating environmental awareness
in the communities and identification of potentially negative environmental effects in sub-projects through
appropriate checklists. Government regulations require that environmental assessments be conducted for
major development projects, but have no requirements for minor infrastructure projects such as the ones to
be funded by NUSAF. District personnel, trained by NUSAF and NEMA, will do simple environmental
assessments during the desk and field appraisal, using the checklists included in the OM and Handbooks.
Communities will actively participate in all stages of the sub-project cycle which includes considerations
for improving the management of natural resources. NEMA will develop guidelines for the use of checklists
and the implementation of mitigation measures prior to effectiveness. Such guidelines will enable analysis
of the environment impact of individual sub-projects, include procedures for documenting analysis and list
mitigating steps where there is adverse impact, and will be incorporated in NUSAF's implementation
manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The ESMP has been available to all participants in the NUSAF preparations, both government agencies
and NGOs. For all the sub-projects to be funded by NUSAF, the potential environmental impacts will be
participatorily identified early during the initiation of a sub-project. Assessment of a sub-project and
measures to avoid or minimize impacts will be incorporated into the sub-project implementation plan.
NEMA, through the district environmental officers and together with the communities, will monitor the
procedures for the identification of the environment issues and the implementation of the planned mitigation
measures, and assess progress and compliance. NUSAF will play an active role in promoting and
supporting sub-projects aimed at improving the management of natural resources by poor communities.
Environmental screening, review and assessment of potential environmental impacts on investments will be
an integral part of the CDI and VGS sub-project cycles (planming, implementation, supervision and
monitoring). NUSAF will be pro-active in promoting community environmental awareness and
institutional capacity building to ensure enforcement and monitoring of standards and guidelines needed to
improve community management of natural resources.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NUSAF proposes a promotion, awareness creation and capacity building program related to environmental
issues. This will take the form of messages to the wide range of stakeholders as well as training and
sensitization workshops. The proposed methods of training community members in both screening and
assessments is through the use of a harmonized participatory framework - which outlines the procedures
and tools used to ensure maximium participation of all cross sections of the community and other actors at
all stages of the sub-project cycle. Facilitators, including those from local authorities (LAs), CSOs and
non-governmental organisations operating in the area, will therefore be trained and used to guide the
process and in turn, will assist in training communities to monitor environmental effects at each phase of
the sub-project cycle. Communities will formulate their own assessment and how to manage environmental
impacts within the sub-project cycle with the assistance of the facilitators where necessary.
-19 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The sub-project cycle (see ESMP and OM) defines the roles and responsibilities of the different actors by
level during the preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
sub-project. Throughout the cycle, the different sector specialists ensure that: sector norms and standards
are adhered to, ongoing and planned sector initiatives are taken into account and budgetary provisions are
made for any recurrent costs that may arise from the proposed sub-project. District Environmental Officers
[DEOs] exist in all the 18 districts and are employees of the local government. Under the IDA supported
Environmental Management and Capacity Building Project, NEMA will facilitate capacity development of
district officers for environmental assessment and audit. In districts targeted by NUSAF which are not
targeted by the above mentioned Environmental Management and Capacity Building Project, NUSAF will
fund such training using the training materials NEMA is using.
The minor infrastructure NUSAF will finance will have minimal impact on the environment, but
cumulative effects will need to be monitored. Based on the needs assessment being undertaken and the
experiences from the planned pilot phase, NUSAF will:-
(i)    include environmental assessment in the participatory appraisal process with the communities, and
monitor the criteria for sub-projects by way of a checklist developed with the communities;
(ii)   carry out environmental assessments;
(iii)  raise community awareness over enviromnental issues; and
(iv)   finance community-based environmental altemative projects like afforestation, energy saving
stoves, etc, as detem-ined by the relevant communities.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The community needs assessments (CNA) and stakeholder workshops undertaken during preparation as
well as the pilot projects that will be implemented in several districts will yield considerable information on
the potential social impact of NUSAF and how to promote equitable and sustainable development at the
community level. The CNA (See Annex 12) undertaken sought people's perceptions on their key priorities,
coping mechanisms as well as characteristics of the vulnerable. The assessment also involved getting
community feedback on key design assumptions in NUSAF about local govemrnments' and organisations'
roles, and capacity, and community managed systems. Communities indicated indigenous institutional
support mechanisms and self help practices which would be used for the design of NUSAF. The findings of
the CNA therefore were used for designing and refining specific features of NUSAF.
A key group of stakeholders, the CSOs/NGOs sector including faith based organisations, will play an
important role at national, district and community levels. It is envisioned that these organisations will be
actively involved throughout the sub project cycle, from identification through implementation and
monitoring, in areas where they have a comparative advantage. A simple gender and empowerment
assessment form developed by the MOGLSD is included in the OM and will be utilized to deternine the
level of participation and hence empowerment of both men and women, the nature of participation, how
equitable the distribution of costs and benefits is, etc.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries under the project are poor communities in Northem Uganda especially the
vulnerable groups mainly living in villages in both the rural and urban areas. Given the largely demand
- 20 -



driven nature of the project, communities will participate at all stages of the sub-project cycle from
identification, prioritization through planning, implementation and monitoring, in the CDI, VGS and
CRCM components. The facilitation process will follow the harmonized participatory framework, as it
will determine who is participating, when and how. MoLG is taking a lead in assisting districts utilize this
mechanism that promotes community based development through participatory planning, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation. Indicators for community based M&E have been developed and will be tested
during the pilot phase.
N1IUSAF will continue to work very closely with traditional leaders, CSOs, donors, national and local
government systems, researchers, academicians, media, to ensure that investments in socio-economic
infrastructure are effective, targeted, culturally sensitive, and inclusive. NUSAF will also link
communities to relevant programs, provide extensive training of communities and their
leaders/organizations, and ensure that capacity building and awareness are managed and provided within
Ihe IEC and CDI components.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Key NGOs both intemational and indigenous including faith based organisations have actively participated
amd continue to participate in stakeholder meetings and workshops. In these consultative fora, the relevant
organisations operating in the Northem region, have been able to generally identify their roles and
responsibilities in NUSAF, and share their experiences of the demand driven approach. More information
regarding the role of CSOs/NGOs and CBOs in implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and the
sharing of resources will be determined from the lessons that will be obtained from the pilots in the
districts.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The CNA clearly indicated the need to use existing indigenous and religious structures in addition to
formal and local council structures and systems. In order to achieve the intended social development
outcomes, NUSAF will employ:
4o A community level microplanning process to allow for the participation of all people and especially the
vulnerable groups, including women, people with disabilities, widows, etc.;
o   Community level organisations which implement and manage the sub-project, in addition to seeking
resources outside the community;
ol Community facilitators who are part of government and no-government agencies trained to work
intensively with the communities and provide support for the inclusion of other development agencies;
oi  District level teams consisting of govemment and non govemmental staff oriented to the demand driven
approach, involved in the appraising and supervision of sub-projects;
oi Participatory monitoring and evaluation systems in addition to the Management and Information
systems, that promote communities themselves setting their indicators of success; and
oi An Information, Education and Communication strategy to facilitates timely dissemination and
feedback of NUSAF related information, as well as the documentation and dissemination of good
practices and lessons leamed from the sub-projects.
Interrelationships between formal and informal institutions, national and local levels have been considered
and strategies formulated to ensure efficient and effective coordination by National and District
Committees for NUSAF. Membership of these committees has been drawn from a wide cross-section of
stakeholders.
- 21 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
NUSAF will utilise information generated directly through the MIS, and household and community
surveys to be done in collaboration with UBOS, employing both qualitative and quantitative approaches.
Critical monitorable indicators include the following:
*   Active and visible participation of the poor, women, and other vulnerable groups in the identification,
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of development priorities through a community
development process;
*   The formulation of sub-projects that exclusively target the vulnerable groups as identified by the
communities themselves and these include people affected and living with HIV/AIDs, people with
disabilities, youths, etc.
* The community project committee, an institution that will mobilise internal and external resources, and
manage community sub-projects in a transparent and accountable manner;
*   Establishment of transparent and open information and communication initiative that promotes
feedback from the communities and other actors, while providing timely and regular project related
information to the stakeholders;
* Development of local skills for facilitation, planning and management, including financial
management and procurement; and
*   Development of a support structure at sub-county and district level that is responsive and accountable
to communities and community based organizations.
A community-based M&E systems will be developed to strengthen the sub-project cycle and allow
communities to be able to monitor and evaluate progress while ensuring sustainability of their projects.
Lessons learnt from the NUSAF experience would be available for incorporation into the existing systems
thereby enriching the later systems to respond to the community information flows.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
. -  -  .  . .  Poiy  l  [ Ii c,y............ 1 - .  ; -,.  Ap  -   .- .  -  L 7ppli Gabffl t y-_,
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
After the initial assessment by the communities and their facilitators, environmental assessment of
sub-projects will be the responsibility of the District, where DEOs or persons designated by them will
screen proposed subprojects as part of the DTPC responsible for the technical appraisal. This will ensure
that appropriate assessment of each subproject is carried out. Before approving a subproject, the DEO on
behalf of the DTPC,.verifies that the subproject meets the environmental requirements of national and local
authorities and does not violate any of the Bank's safeguard policies. NEMA and/or its vetted consultants
will train those DEOs not yet exposed to the EA for community projects as well as familiarity with Bank
-22 -



safeguards issues, partly through NUSAFs training program, and partly through the training funded under
other Bank's and local donors' environmental projects operational in the selected districts. It is expected
that NUSAF will enhance the capacity for safeguarding environment issues in the local institutions of the
Local Councils [LCl to LC5] as prescribed by the National Constitution. Community sub-projects may not
in each case have negative environmental effects, but the cumulative effects may over time be negative,
thus necessitating a holistic involvement in community driven development on the part of DEOs and their
staff.
1. Sustainability and Risks
][. Sustainability:
E]mpirical evidence from similar operations in various regions points to a strong and positive correlation
between community participation and sustainability of sub-projects. Sustainability issues are also tied to
the complementary roles played by other programs like LGDP, PMA, NAADS. The integration of
NUSAF activities and lessons learnt into local govermment planning processes will also contribute to
sustainability. The current macro-economic stability and the overall PEAP place greater importance on the
Government's role in supporting basic social and economic services also factor in positively.
Systems and procedures will be developed as part of the project's OM, and training of project and key
Government staff will be carried out prior to project effectiveness and thereafter. This will ensure that
sub-projects with a low probability of sustainability will not be undertaken, and that community groups and
implementing partners with a poor track record are denied additional sub-projects.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
A return of civil strife in the Acholi and  S       The Implementation of the Amnesty Act is being
Karamoja sub-regions.                              fully supported by both the Donor Group for the
Communities refuse to participate in                North, Amnesty and Conflict Recovery and
implementation                                      Government through the Amnesty Commission.
Inter-regional peace dialogue underway
supported by International efforts. Participatory
planning involves communities from
identification through implementation.
M         The local authority roles have been clearly
Current LGDP framework could                        defined and agreed, and the Decentralization
undermine direct community funding.                 Donor Group appointed a member to sit on the
Project fails to establish systems to               MTF as it finalizes both the PAD and the OM.
monitor performance and provide                     National MIS/M&E systems will be adopted
appropriate responses at all levels                 and project MIS/M&E developed at each level
Local Government and NGOs/CSOs            M         LAs, CSOs/NGOs/CBOs and private sector
unwilling to cooperate and implement                fully participate per roles defined in sub-project
mutually                                            cycle and at invitation of communities
Institutional arrangements under          N         Institutional linkages and functions of LAs
decentralization fail to support community          discussed, agreed and incorporated in
responses under NUSAF                               Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for
each district
Local CSOs and active NGOs unwilling      N         CNA findings indicate communities and
-23 -



to support community initiatives                    CSOslNGOS cooperate well. IEC will
strengthen this.
From Components to Outputs
Delayed provision of counterpart funds.   M         MOF will allocate counterpart funds directly
and MOU will be signed with each district
undertaking to prioritize NUSAF sub-projects
since they reflect community priorities.
N         EEC will ensure all project information is
Lack of transparency, accountability and            publicly displayed and CPMCs, CSOs and LA
technical quality in (sub-)project                  staff will be required to account, and
management;                                        infrastructure built must meet sector standards -
extension staff certify works.
Political interference and rent seeking.  M         IEC will promote equal access to information
and clarity on roles and decision making
mechanisms will minimize interference.
Community fatigue in participation        N         CNA indicated that communities are eager to
contribute to their own development provided
they participate in the process
Weak capacity in district planning units to  N      Support to capacity building is an integral part
coordinate all activities and actors                of the project and LGDP reforms will focus on
this
Community traditional leaders and local   N         The peace building component will build
authorities unwilling to work on peace              leadership capacity to promote peace.
building.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The major risk associated with the option of not undertaling the project is the negative impact on the
Government's stated goal of reduction of poverty, protection of the vulnerable, and reducing disparities in
development in the North. This might have implications for the ongoing peace initiatives and might further
worsen the insecurity situation in the North. Besides the Govermnent is on record as having promised to
provide funding for North specifically to close the 'development gap' emerging. This is especially critical at
a time when the Government and the donors are working to implement the Amnesty Act hirough the
Amnesty Commission.
The Govemrnment is particularly concerned that of the 13 districts that have shown continued decline in
human development over the years, nine are in the North. Poverty and unemployment are high, and more
than 66% of the population live in poverty. Not only could social tensions put political pressure on the
Government to abandon its reform program, but social stability and peace are a precondition for investor
confidence. The Government therefore sees NUSAF as a critical component of its overall social and
economic program that can be abandoned only at substantial risk.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
With NUSAF focusing on community demand driven sub-projects, there is a lot of lobbying for funding of
big infrastructure projects. The project team has however taken pains to demonstrate how sectoral
programs such as the Ten Year Roads Development Program and the Rural Electrification Project are
already under way to address that demand. Further, the Team has supported the financing of a Study to
scope out comprehensive terms of reference for the development of a Strategic Plan for the North to be
- 24 -



incorporated in a National Strategy when that is prepared. These issues are likely to continue to be tabled,
but to date the explanations provided by the MTF have been accepted by the Parliamentarians from the
North and other lobbyists.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) The Borrower has established NUMU, in a form and with functions and resources, satisfactory to the
Association, and appointed to NUMU the following personnel with terms of reference, qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) an executive director; (ii) project accountant; (iii) an
EEC specialist; (iv) a participation expert; and (v) MIS expert;
(b) The Borrower has adopted: (i) the Operational Manual; and (ii) an accounting and financial
management system and handbook, all in the form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c) The Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution made;
(d) Signed Memoranda of Understanding with at least nine (9) District Councils
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board
Draft Memorandum of Understanding with District Councils
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I2 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project imnpleentation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Norbrt 0.   ugwa                   zingai Mutumbuka                 judy-.
Team Leaol                   (f    ~Sector Manager/Director         Country Manager/Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
IKeyPerformance'       Data CollectionStrategy
Hierarchy of Objecties    - indIcators                  .'   - litica*.A. i                     . -
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To use targeted investments in 1. Improved human     Govemment and donors       No reversal of ongoing peace
a participatory, equitable and  development indices (HDI);  reports; Household (HH)  efforts / situation in the
sustainable manner to      2. Increased government   surveys; Annual Government North;
promote reconciliation and  spending in social sector;  Budgets reports; Project  Sector performances are
thereby contribute to eradicate 3. Improved health status and reports.          sustained;
poverty in 18 districts in the  school enrolments;
north and eastem                                                                HH surveys are carried out in
region--Northem Uganda.                                                         the districts of the North;
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To empower communities in  1. Level of satisfaction of  Beneficiary assessments;  Current LGDP framework
18 districts in Northern   beneficiary communities with Monitoring and evaluation  will not frustrate direct
Uganda by enhancing their  community-level project   reports; Supervision mission  community funding.
capacity to systematically  outcomes;                reports; Project audits reports
identify, prioritize, and plan.  2. Responsiveness and  and minutes / reports
for their needs within own  accountability of key    documenting decisions
value system, and implement stakeholders in making   making process;Project
sustainable development    decisions, particularly at  progress reports.
initiatives that improve   lower levels of govemance;
socioeconomic services and  3. Extent of transparency and
opportunities- thereby     accountability exhibited
contributing to improved   among stakeholders in
likelihood's by placing money making decisions that affect
in the hands of communities.  all of them.
- 26 -



.I.  -  |f., Key4Prirformna,,n,ce i, ,1Data Collection Strategy ,   -
kHlerarchy,of Objectives     :'ndic'tors - .', ,,. 1j' Criti1ca,s                             tns.
Oul:put from each         Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Output 1:
Socio-economic infrastructure 1. Ninety (70%) per cent of  Project implementation  1. The communities will be
provided and used efficiently  the sub-projects completed  reports; Survey and PRA  willing to participate in the
and effectively in the 18  within the project time;  reports; technical audit  implementation process
districts in the North                              reports (periodic); evaluation
reports
2. Two hundred thousand                            2.Project will establish
(200,000) households using                         systems that will monitor
facilities by end of project                       performance and provide
(EOP);                                             appropriate response at all
levels for corrections
3. At least 30% of the
population of the North are
reached by the facilities;
4. At least 80% of the
facilities are adequately
maintained by the
communities
Output 2:
Vulnerable groups receiving  1. A total of fifty five  Project implementation  Local NGOs and local
support from activities they  thousand (55,000) vulnerable reports; Management  government agree to cooperate
implement and manage in the persons in receipt of   information systems at    and implement mutually this
18 districts of the North  assistance;              community and district levels; component
Districts reports; etc.
2. On hundred and forty
(140) CSOs facilitated and  Beneficiary Assessments for
strengthened to support VGs item 4.
within the project period;
3. Two thousand, five hunder
(2,500) sub-projects
developed, managed, and
being used by the VGs.
Output 3:
Efficient, effective and more  1. At least 80% of the  Project implementation  Institutional arrangements
responsive institutions   communities are trained to  reports; financial audit  under decentralization will
avajilable at all levels to  maintain facilities by End Of reports; evaluation reports;  not jeopardize establishment
support communities       Project (EOP);            etc.                      of social fund types of
initiative's                                                                 institutions for community
response
2. Maximum of 25%
sub-project requested rejected
at field appraisal;
3. At least 30% of the women
are involved in CPMCs and
training;
- 27 -



4. At least 80% of districts
tranching funds to project
implementers.
5. At least 90% of the
communities are aware of
NUSAF by the third year of its
operation
Outout 4:
Communities reached with  1. Five hundred (500)      roject implementation   Local CSOs and active NGOs
enhanced Community        Community Reconciliation and progress reports; beneficiaries will be willing to support
reconciliation and conflict  Conflict Management    assessjnents (annual); District community initiative's
management support in     Promoters trained and active in reports; etc
Karamoja, Acholi and West  the sub-regions by project
Nile sub-regions.         MTR;
2. Eight hundred (800)
communities supported by
reconciliation-related NGOs,
CBOs, and other agencies by
EOP;
3. Two thousand (2,000)
interventions targeted at
traditional institutions for
CRCM.
4. At least 80% sub-projects
completed and in use by EOP;
5. At least 10 CRCM tools
developed and in use by project
MTR
- 28 -



S iiernarc              1    Key Performtiance    1Sal Assumptions,
HSierarchy,of Objectives    .    indicators: J; _____         .,_____________
Pi oject Components I     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Community Development US$ 68.5 million           MIS, Periodic progress reports Timely provision of
Initiatives ICDIs]          * Sub-projects identified,  from Local Authorities;  counterpart funding;
planned and appraised.  Financial management and  Sub-project proposals
* Communities to        disbursement reports from  identified and selected based
implement 3,000       NUM and LAs.              on priority needs and
sub-projects.                                   technical quality; Mininmized
* Support sub-project                             rent seeking.
monitoring &evaluation.
* Train 3,000 CPMCs in
sub-project cycles .
2. Support to Vulnerable  US$ 20.0 million          MIS and reports from NGOs  The VGs are willing to
Groups [VGSI               * Facilitate communities to and CBOs.              participate in the initiatives
identify vulnerable                             with CSOs and LAs
groups.
* Support 3,000 CBO
/CSO - implemented
sub-projects.
* Reach 50,000 vulnerable
persons with benefits
3. Community              USS 2.5 million           MIS as well as Reports from  Community traditional
Reconciliation and Conflict  * Plan and conduct training CBOs and NGOs        leaders and the local
Management                    in community                                    government are willing to
reconciliation.                                 work on community
* Identify institutions to                        reconciliation
conduct training.
* Work with 6 districts to
implement component.
* Support 1,000 community
sub-projects with
community reconciliation
activities
4. Capacity Building and  US$ 9.0 million           NlJMU and Local Council   District Planning units have
Ini:titutional Development  * Plan and execute training reports               capacities to coordinate all
C]B&IDI                      for stakeholders.                               local activities of active actors
* Identify institutions to                        in the districts; Staff are
(a) Training and CB for      conduct training.                                selected and recruited
NUMU and district staff    * Implement NUMU at                                competitively.
national, regional, and
district levels.
(b) IEC                    * Conduct awareness
raising sessions at all
levels.
(c) M&E, and MIS           * Implement M&E and
MIS
* Contribute to Poverty
Monitoring system.
-29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UGANDA. Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
The Government is cognizant of the disproportionally higher level of poverty in the 18 districts of Northern
and North Eastern Uganda compared to the rest of the country. In order to address the inequality and the
severe poverty in these parts of the country, Government is, through the Office of the Prime Minister,
designing the Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF) Project to support the reconstruction of basic
economic and social infrastructure lost or retarded over years of neglect and instability in the region,
promote community rehabilitation, and address the emergency needs of the war affected population and
other poverty-related problems, especially at the grassroots level.
One of the measures taken to understand and address widespread poverty in the country was the launching
of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) which is the Government's framework and strategy for
eliminating core poverty over a ten year period from 1997-2007. In the PEAP, the disadvantaged status of
the North vis-a-vis the south of the country is explicitly recognized and measures to redress this disparity in
the form of targeted interventions are recommended. Additional efforts through special/targeted
interventions investments are required to address the problem. NUSAF is therefore intended to be the main
vehicle through which this will be done. NUSAF is one of the strategies proposed for carrying out the
required interventions in the region. It is intended to target the needs of 30% of the population in the project
area, i.e. 2 million people.
GoU therefore decided to adopt a project targeting the. North and North East after realizing that despite
significant gains in reducing poverty recorded throughout the country, these areas continued to fall deeper
into poverty. The combined population of these districts is approximately six (6) million people which
represents 20% of the nation's population.
NUSAF will consolidate the achievements of the Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project Phase 1 -
1992-97 (NURP 1), and assist districts and communities to build their capacities in project identification,
preparation, implementation and monitoring and evaluation. The project is expected to contribute to
increased incomes and access to basic social services such as primary education and health care; increased
economic activities by the communities and the private sector; assist the vulnerable population, especially
Intemally Displaced Persons (IDPs), war affected children, female headed households, the semi-nomadic
population in the Karamoja region and other poor households.
Overall objectives of NUSAF
NUSAF will empower communities in Northem and North Eastem Uganda by enhancing their capacities to
systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs within their own value system. It will implement
sustainable development initiatives that improve socio-economic services and opportunities thereby
contributing to improved livelihood's by placing money and its management in the hands of the
conimunities.
NUSAF will assist Government in its efforts to tackle poverty and bring about development through
participatory community efforts that utilize community value systems, which are particularly strong in the
family, clan, and cattle-rearing culture found in Northern Uganda. The process of over-coming
underdevelopment through community action, leadership development and resource mobilization will
thereby strengthen the on-going peace processes in the region. Through NUSAF, vulnerable groups
(unemployed youths, female headed households, orphans, and others) will be mobilized to join mainstream
development processes based on community accountability and improved governance.
- 30 -



The proposed NUSAF will be part of Government's efforts to ensure that the North is able to "catch-up"
with the rest of the country in the development process. It will make it possible for communities to
articulate their specific needs, prioritize them and manage the processes and the outcomes, and thus
enhance good governance for peace and development. NUSAF will facilitate the construction and
rthabilitation of small-scale infrastructure, identified and managed by the communities in a culturally
sensitive manner (hence the emphasis on community value systems) as a critical means to promote
community leadership in the context of decentralization. Specifically, NUSAF will:
(Ji)   strengthen community participation, leadership development and resource mobilization;
(ii)   improve quality of service and access to social services and community initiated infrastructure;
(iii)  support community reconciliation and conflict management through local institutions and civil
society organization's (CSO);
(iv)   provide and facilitate support to vulnerable groups, especially the youth and women affected by
conflict; and
(,r)   provide institutional support and build capacity to manage the project, disseminate information,
monitor and evaluate activities as well as strengthen the local government institutions that provide
technical support to the Project.
IEroject pre-test phase.
in order to confirm the operational guidelines for NUSAF, it is important to pre-test different mechanisms
for implementation as well as to operationalize them. Pre-testing is essential in order to fine-tune
operational procedures and the sub-project cycles of the three components for the larger project
Sub-project activities will be field tested at the thirty two sites in the five sub-regions where the community
needs assessment (CNA) exercises were carried out. The proposed funds will assist GOU:-
*   Complete the design of the proposed NUSAF using inputs from findings of Technical Assistance (TA)
analyses and reports;
*   establish a partially staffed structure to manage start-up activities;
*   develop and finalize the draft operational manual and handbooks;
*   implement sub-projects at select sites; and
*   build limited implementation capacity before the credit becomes effective.
Ely Component:
Project Component I - US$97.20 million
Community Demand Initfative (CDI) Component: Total cost of component US$97.2 million (ID)A
US$68.5; Government of Uganda US$9.8 million; and Beneficiary Communities US$18.9 million).
Ihis component will support community demand-driven initiatives that improve the accessibility to and the
delivery of small-scale socio-economic services and enhance the capacity of communities and other
stakeholders involved in the process. Therefore, the proactive participation of beneficiaries in the
i(dentification and prioritization of needs, decision-making, planning, implementation, monitoring,
maintaining and operating the project output will be the governing principle. It will support community
demand-driven initiatives that contribute to the creation of community assets, with a negative list for items
with individual rather than community benefits.
A positive list of items which can be funded by NUSAF has been developed and although it is not
- 31 -



exhaustive, it provides an indication of the scope of this component On the negative list will be
sub-projects which (a) might have a resettlement component, (b) micro-credit unless they are in the context
of NGO support provided to income-generating activities to vulnerable individuals like widows and
widowers, returnees and abductees, disabled, people living with and affected by BIV/AIDS and HIV/AIDS
orphans, and (c) are large investments beyond the maximum specified in the Operational Manual
(US$50,000) for financing under NUSAF. A CDI sub-project cycle has been developed and will be tested
to ensure that the roles of communities, technical experts, elected bodies, and private contractors are in
compliance with the provisions as detailed in the Operational Manual.
Project Component 2 - US$23.30 million
Vulnerable Group Support (VGS) Component: Total cost of component US$23.3 million (IDA
US$20.0; Govemment of Uganda US$1.2 million; Beneficiary Communities US$1.1 million).
This component targets the vulnerable groups and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), NGOs and private
sector agencies which will directly work with these groups. The vulnerable include inter alia: the intemally
displaced persons (IDPs), children abducted by various armies and who have retumed (ex-abductees);
youth who have given up guns for peaceful livelihood altematives (gun drop-outs, e.g. from Karamoja),
youths whose life have been disrupted by the long civil strife (youth drop-outs), the aged, female headed
households, widows and widowers, HIV/AIDS affected and people living with HWV/AIDS, orphans and
foster parents, the destitute and the disabled.
Through a participatory process, vulnerable groups and CSOs working with such groups in the region will
be identified and supported to develop strategies likely to contribute to their poverty alleviation. The
project will finance the facilitation process for target groups and the CSOs that will have been identified.
The component will then support capacity-building activities for CSOs selected to partner vulnerable
groups at the district, sub-county or village levels. It will further finance income generating activities and
other support services interventions targeted at female headed households and other vulnerable groups.
Activities under this component will depend on the specific needs of vulnerable groups, and the CSOs
identified as partners. For the youth, support will include skills provision through vocational training
facilities (rehabilitation and expansion of existing), sponsorships for youths to undergo vocational training
and receive a set of tools upon their graduation, and others. Other CSOs will receive support to rehabilitate
existing facilities and expand coverage for the elderly, persons affected by HIV/AIDS, orphans and foster
parents, and various destitute persons in the districts.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.80 million
Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management (CRCM) Component: Total cost of component
US$2.8 million (IDA US$2.5 million; Govemment of Uganda US$0.14 million; Beneficiary Communities
US$0.14 million)
The CRCM component will provide support to and encourage communities to identify innovative ways for
community reconciliation and conflict management using traditional and non-traditional approaches, based
on indigenous knowledge, the way communities have in the past managed conflict so that it has not lead to
open warfare, and helping communities reclaim this knowledge for use in modem-day living in Uganda.
Traditional approaches target traditional, local elected, and religious leadership to review and strengthen
on-going community reconciliation processes such as holding peace meetings and/or negotiations between
clans and/or tribes; supporting inter-tribal dialogue including visits to other districts; cleansing of
"reporters" and retumees, and counselling and provision of psyco-social support to retumees, ex-abductees,
- 32 -



pun-drop-outs, and the receiving communities. Non-traditional methods, which include PRAs to enhance
community dialogue and facilitate 'social capital' resuscitation, would be promoted by LAs, NGOs and
CSOs operating at all levels. Both approaches will: (a) build strong ties (integration) within and between
war-torn societies that are needed to cope with transitional shocks and thereby regenerate community safety
iiets; (b) facilitate intra- and inter-clans and tribal linkages needed within and among the sub-regions; (c)
dievelop synergies with formal and national institutions needed to build trust and confidence in improving
State-LAs-community relations.
In the process, the component will link governance, decentralization and community empowerment. It will
build community confidence in the importance and relevance of local government systems as well as
r ejuvenate traditional systems. Support will also be provided to facilitate the implementation of
r econciliation at the local level, particularly the role of traditional institutions and CSOs, including
integration of returnees through incentives to accepting communities. These activities will be concentrated
in the three sub-regions of Karamoja, Acholi and West Nile. In Karamoja the initiative will build on the
work of the Lutheran World Federation (LWF), other local CSOs, and traditional leaders while in Acholi
and West Nile sub-regions, the support will strengthen the works of LAs, CSOs, traditional authorities, and
r eligious leaders in the area. Successful implementation of the CRCM component will ensure strong
community linkages to leadership and local governance for peace building and enhanced inclusiveness in
ihe planning and management of development activities including the CDI component.
The development of a community-based M&E system will allow communities to track their own
development in terms of peaceful development and to re-enforce the critical link between peace and
ievelopment. The goal of NUSAF is to assist communities move from the post-conflict area, using funds
under the CRCM component, so that they can participate in activities targeted at vulnerable groups (VGS
component) and community development (CDI component).
lProject Component 4 - US$11.20 million
Institutional Development (ID) Component: Total cost of component US$11.20 million (IDA US$9.0
riu'llion; and Government of Uganda US$2.20 million)
Sgub-Component (a): Capacity Building - Training and NUSAF Management Unit (NUMU)
7rraining: This component will support capacity building and training for different sets of stakeholders.
These would include the communities, LAs, CSOs, NGOs and the private sector, concerned GOU staff and
NUSAF staff. This capacity building initiative will be articulated through workshops and seminars, as
appropriate, using facilitators, trainers and tools and will focus on familiarizing the concerned stakeholders
with the philosophy, principles, and methodology of the project and on building capacity to implement the
project based on these clear criteria. There will be a clear emphasis on developing basic book-keeping and
accountancy skills as well as leadership skills among community members involved in the management of
sub-projects under NUSAF. Enhanced capacity at the community, CSO and government levels to design,
support and implement participatory development will be the expected outcome of this initiative. For the
local government functionaries, the component will assist them to, by level, facilitate communities to
identify, prioritize and plan multi-community sub-projects for funding; ensure communities comply with
sector norms and standards; sensitise communities to the importance of cross-cutting issues such as
environment, gender, HIV/Aids and nutrition; appraise sub-projects; recommend for approval and
supervise implementation of sub-project activities. Where the LA is the implementing and managing
authority, the staff will be trained in the sub-project cycle and NUSAF procedures to ensure that there is
smooth interface with LA procedures.
- 33 -



NUSAFManagement Unit: A small Project Coordination/Management Unit, headed by an Executive
Director appointed by the NSC chaired by the PS, OPM, will be constituted at the regional level to bring its
operations close to the districts and communities. The following full time staff will constitute the Unit: an
Executive Director (ED) appointed by and reporting to the NSC through the PS, OPM, supported by three
directors for CDI, VGS/CRCM and Finance and Administration who in turn are backed-up by specialists
in participation and operations, infrastructure, procurement, accounting and administration. The ED's
office would be serviced by a small Unit comprised of technical experts responsible for participation EEC,
MIS, Training, M&E and Intemal Audit in addition to the support staff of secretaries, drivers and guards.
Since the bulk of NUSAF work (sub-projects preparation, appraisal and approval) will be district-based,
the NUSAF Management Unit will be small. This will be responsible for managing a Special Account,
components implementation, technical quality control and coordination, administrative functions amongst
the different stakeholders (including the MOFPED, donor(s), NGOs, etc.), monitoring of project activities,
monitoring cumulative environmental effects and safeguards issues, and documentation of project
data/information. At the district level, a NUSAF technical officer and accounts assistant would be
appointed or re-assigned from existing staff to facilitate interaction between CPMCs, STPCs, district level
sectoral officers and DEC during preparation, appraisal and implementation. Under the direction of the
CAO district based staff would provide support for the sub-project approval, implementation and
supervision in line with their routine functions.
The arrangement to have the NUMU overseen by the OPM, located in the region, is in conformity with the
suggestion from many districts that a regional headquarter may be more convenient for communities and
supporting agencies to access than one in Kampala. In summary, the specific functions of NUMU at the
Regional Level will be to:
* Oversee the implementation of processes needed to make the sub-project cycle a critical NUSAF
management tool;
* Receive and finance proposals from communities, their representative and supportive agencies, and
LAs as approved by the DTPC and endorsed by the DEC;
* Facilitate training for facilitators in participatory processes and for the various actors including LA
staff, CSOs/NGOs and the private sector;
* Develop sub-project component documentation for management and accountability (in the form of
handbooks, training manuals, procurement, contracting and reporting guidelines, etc);
* Overall coordinate, monitor and evaluate NUSAF activities and report on them to the NSC
quarterly and annually;
* Procure goods and services needed to ensure overall implementation;
* Initiate a study on a strategic development policy framework for the North; and
*   Assess the project impact at completion.
In the execution of the above functions, the NSC and the NUMU will rely heavily on recommendations
coming from Levels I, II, m through V of Local Councils in the districts. The capacities of these levels of
LAs will therefore be strengthened through technical support by CSOs/NGOs and other agencies or private
individuals.
Sub-Component (b): Capacity Building - Information, Education, and Communication (aEC)
The component will also support IEC initiatives which will seek to inform and educate the concerned
stakeholders on the objectives, processes and activities of the project and the roles of the different actors as
well as to obtain and transmit from the stakeholders their views and responses to project needs. Equal
access to information is a key element to community empowerment, transparency and accountability. This
upward, horizontal and downward flow of infonnation is critical for ensuring that project objectives and
implementation targets are upheld. The success of the project will depend to a large extent on the timely
- 34-



and consistent transmittal of information across stakeholders.
This initiative will also contribute to the formation of sustainable alliances and partnerships between
communities, LAs, CSOs, NGOs and governnent officials. Specifically, the EEC initiative will initially
'sensitize the broad range of stakeholders to the dynamics of the proposed project - its philosophy,
principles and methodology. In this context, it will clearly articulate the roles and responsibilities of the
different actors concerned, document the implementation of the project by focusing on the sub-projects
under the CDI component, and the initiatives under the VGS and CPB&CM components. In effect, it will
build an evolving knowledge base of Lessons Learned which can be operationalized to improve project
quality. Media appropriate to Northern Uganda will be identified and used and these will include radio,
drama and song and print. Infornation needs assessments, message development and impact evaluations
will also be financed.
This sub-component is a process integrated into the CDI, VGs and CRCM components. It will seek to
leverage the role of EEC to deepen and amplify the government's development efforts in the five sub-regions
3nd 18 districts identified for project implementation. The sub-component will work as a knowledge
management tool that will provide optimal project-related information through a variety of media vehicles
to all levels of stakeholders. Information about the philosophy and methodology of the project, as well as
the roles, responsibilities and accountability of stakeholders at all concemed levels will thus be one main
and on-going focus of IEC. In this regard, the sub-component will internalize and respond as needed to the
varying communication demands of the three components - CDI, VGs and Community Reconciliation and
Conflict Management. The second focus will be on documenting, disseminating and exchanging
information on the development experiences of concerned stakeholders
Sub-Component (c): Capacity Building - Monitoring and Evaluation (including Management
Information System - MIS)
Monitoring and Evaluation: Effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E) anrangements will be integral to
project design and implementation. These will be based on a District-level monitoring system,
complemented by a suitable national system that can not only report on project progress, but also
contribute to analyses conducted on poverty trends in the North and in the Country. At the National level,
there will be some supervision of policy-related matters by the OPM and various line ministries - and these
will need to be monitored and evaluated. From the outputs of this sub-component, NUMU will be able to
produce suitable reports for the Prime Minister and the Minister of State for Northern Uganda in briefings
for the Cabinet, Parliament, and others. Similarly, NUMU will be able to prepare reports for the National
Steering Committee to brief line ministries, donors, LAs, NGOs/CBOs, various stakeholders, and IDA.
Cumulative Environmental effects as well as solutions to local environmental problems will be monitored
and show-cased at national level.
NUSAF will be able to harmonize its approach with others at the national level, especially the Ministry of
Finance's efforts to develop a harmonized Monitoring and Evaluation system. The work of NUMU in this
sub-component will thus contribute to the national monitoring of trends in poverty alleviation by providing
some statistics on'developments in the North.
Poverty monitoring and analysis: has been one of the major activities carried out by the Poverty
Monitoring and Analysis Unit (PMAU) at the Ministry of Finance, and the UBOS via its frequent
household surveys. Many other supporting surveys (both qualitative and quantitative) have also been
carried out by various development organizations (including bilaterals and UN agencies). These recent
reports have been used in the preparation of NUSAF. There are, however, some gaps identified in the
previous household surveys, which NUSAF, in conjunction with other players, will attempt to fill in by
- 35 -



carrying out complementary initiatives. Firstly, poverty estimates so far could be reliably calculated only
at the sub-regional level, a level which is inadequate to undertake effective targeting and monitoring, or
pick-up on the District variation. Secondly, some districts in the project area have not been surveyed at all
during the last survey. Finally, given the alarming poverty level and vulnerability in the project area, it was
felt that getting information on vulnerability and conflict would be critical. Given these facts, the project
proposes to provide base-line household survey for the 18 districts as part of the regular household income
and expenditure surveys that UBOS regularly carries out, and include a module on vulnerability and
conflict in the survey. NUSAF will fund surveys during the mid-term (beneficiary assessment) and at the
tail-end of the project, to assess the project's effectiveness in reaching the target communities and
households.The project will support the analytical work emanating from the surveys.
Management Information System: Appropriate monitoring indicators will be developed and a Management
Information System (MIS) designed that will assist in trackirig the progress of the project. A suitable
financial management system will be implemented using appropriate accounting packages approved by the
MOFEPD and MOLG for use by LAs. A suitable Financial Management System (FMS) will be available
for use by NUSAF in time for the commencement of the PPF.
As NUSAF activities are driven by sub-project cycles followed by communities and LAs, CSOs, NGOs
and the private sector, a suitable Sub-Project Tracking System (STS) will be put in place. The STS would
take into account and learn from existing district level data collection and analysis systems. Experience
from other Social Funds in Africa will be harnessed and tapped to ensure that NUSAF can take advantage
of lessons learnt by others in this process. A simple project tracking system will thus be put into place and
used to monitor sub-project implementation, and completion in all the components on NUSAF. The project
tracking system will be complemented by an Output-based Sub-project Management System (OSMS) as
the basis for developing a performance sub-project management system so that the contracting of LAs,
CSOs/NGOs, CBOs, and private service providers is transparent to both communities and supporting
agencies. There is some experience with the use of Operational Bills of Quantities (OBQs) to produce
Schedules of Inputs (SoIs) in Uganda. Similarly, NUSAF will access whatever regional experience exists
with this type of sub-project management information system. Through the OBQs, SoIs, and OSM
experiences, NUSAF will be able to implement an MIS for use at the NUMU level and have it adopted for
use in the Districts. This system will guide the development of performance measures for District
Councils as they take over the management of NUSAF from NUMU.
The MIS will interface with IEC by for example identifring sub-projects where implementation is lagging
and where suitable information could be packaged for education and communication. This kind of targeted
information will be a facilitator for improved project quality and timeliness.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA. Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
I                           L~~~~~~~~~~ocal  F"r'eignTtl
i Project Cost-By Compioet                     I            I mllon,  U cl  : gion
Community Development Initiative                         77.76         0.00        77.76
Vulnerable Groups Support                                17.90         0.00         17.90
Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management          2.22         0.00         2.22
Institutional Development                                 7.50         1.40          8.90
Total Baseline Cost                                     105.38         1.40        106.78
Physical Contingencies                                   6.60         0.09          6.69
Price Contingencies                                     19.80         0.27        20.07
Total Project Costs'            131.78         1.76       133.54
Total Financing Required            131.78          1.76       133.54
Figures may not add up due to rounding
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 133.5 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 74.91% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 37 -



Annex 4
UGANDA. Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
Economic and Financial Analysis
Links to CAS and ESW
The principal CAS goal supported by the proposed project is the 'reduction of poverty and regional
dispa-ity through targeted investments undertaken in a participatory manner to promote peace and directly
increase the ability of the poor to raise incomes'. The CAS observes that the relatively poor districts in
Northern and Eastern Uganda have not benefited sufficiently from economic growth and reforms. The CAS
proposes a strategy of targeting the relatively poor districts in the North and the East, preferably with a
mechanism such as a social fund. The historical imbalances in the development of the North have led to
increased poverty and conflict. The Community Needs Assessment (CNA) carried out as part of
preparation work findings noted that, among the majority of the communities interviewed, feelings of
exclusion, weak local participation and leadership have both fuelled the conflict and slowed down
development interventions aimed at reducing poverty and improving living standards.
The proposed NUSAF will operate within community value systems and contribute to good governance and
security particularly at the local government and community levels. Support will be provided to
children/youth formerly abducted during the civil wars, those who have surrendered and retumed guns in
exchange for a.changed livelihood, and those whose careers have been disrupted as a result of the
prolonged conflict and breakdown of traditional systems. Support to the VGS component activities in
income generation and services provision will also benefit women-headed households, orphans,
widows/widowers, the very poor, and others affected by conflict.
Macro-economic Situation
Save for recent adverse extemal shocks, Uganda continues to maintain good macro-economic stability
through prudent management of both fiscal and monetary policies. Inflation rates have been maintained
despite the decline in the terms of trade by over 30 per cent over the past two years. Real GDP growth rate
for 2000/01 was 5.0 per cent. Poverty in Uganda continues to be regionally concentrated, with the north
and the east having the largest proportions of the poor populations. Poverty in the North has risen by 8 per
cent between 1997 and 2000, leaving 66 per cent of the population below poverty line. Moreover, the
poverty gap and the depth of the poverty have increased in the rural areas of the North, where insecurity
has been persistent Insecurity and lack of viable altemative economic activities to livestock keeping have
been noted as the most significant reasons for increases in poverty.
Insights from the 1992 integrated HH survey (1992 IHS) and the 2000 UNHS data show that good
household health status, presence of peace and security among others have been important determinants of
household real consumption expenditure growth and hence poverty reduction. NUSAF therefore aims to
empower the communities in the North to address their underlying causes of poverty. The CDI component
seeks to enhance community-LA-state relationships by engaging them in dialogue that eventually leads to
support for long-term development for the poor. The CRCM together with the VGS components facilitate
community reconciliation and security through enhancement of safety nets for basic survival and
participation in long-term development for the poor. Civil societies and NGOs will play major roles in this,
hence, bridging differences in kinship, ethnicity and beliefs which are often obstacles to peace across the
region.
- 38 -



Finance: NUSAF operates under a project modality, rather than direct budgetary support such as Poverty
Reduction Support Credit. Thus funding will be consistent with the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
envelope, and the recurrent cost implications arising from NUSAF sub-projects will be incorporated into
the following year's District Budgetary plans, if they are not already reflected in the budgets. Districts will
operate a NUSAF Special Account, in cases where they undertake the disbursement functions themselves.
Economic Returns to NUSAF
Approximately 70 per cent of NUSAF funds will finance the CDI component which supports communities
to identify and decide on the type of sub-projects that are a priority in their respective areas. Poor
comrnmunities are rational economic actors whose choices will reflect those sub-projects that provide the
greatest rate of return to their inputs of labor, time, materials and cash. Given this, as well as that the
benefits gained are longer term rather than short term, a traditional cost-benefit analysis is not suitable for
the project.
Much of the returns to NUSAF investments will be in the form of enhanced social capital and sustainability
of community assets a result of a combination of peace building efforts and targeted interventions. NUSAF
will pursue cost-effectiveness measures and simple screening procedures for sub-projects through the
following efforts:
*   cost-effectiveness of sub-projects will be facilitated by provision of project menus, costed design
options, a cost data bank and encouragement of local competition in procurement of goods and
services;
*   checklists and guidelines for appraisal of sub-projects proposals will be defined in the Operational
Manual, and will include cost-effectiveness criteria. District and community participants will be trained
in the use of these guidelines;
*   sub-projects will be appraised by NUSAF in conjunction with relevant sectoral technical staff in order
to ensure that the technical specifications of the sub-projects are consistent with sector technical
standards and that subsequent operating costs can be met;
*   under the CDI, VGS and CRCM, community contributions as a share of sub-project cost will be taken
as an indicator of community ownership and commitment to maintain the productive life of the assets.
Communities will contribute between 5% and 20% depending on the nature of the sub-project; and
*   beneficiary assessments, an household surveys will assess project impact on communities and other
beneficiary stakeholders such as LA officials, CSOINGO staff, etc.
Poverty Targeting and Resource Allocation Mechanism for NUSAF
Whereas NUSAF overall is a targeted intervention, a targeting framework has been established, within
which indicative resources allocation for districts has been done in a transparent and objective manner. This
has been based on the fact that the poverty situation and other socio-economic characteristics differ across
Districts. NUSAF, using existing district-level indicators has, in addition to per capita allocation,
incorporated poverty and accessibility to social services, as well as other pertinent indicators to allocate
indicative resources to Districts. This work will be updated annually by incorporating current information
and in cognizance of changing district situations - in consultations with, and inputs from, District
representatives. The updated result will be presented to the NSC annually as part of NUSAF annual plans
and budgets. This exercise should also assess if districts have met their targets and if not, how to stimulate
demand within those Districts where community take-up is slow (through a more intensive EEC and PRA
efforts). The methodology and the initial results are discussed below.
- 39 -



Methodology: The work was undertaken by the OPM with inputs from the World Bank and guidance from
an Advisory Group, consisting of members from the EPRC, the UBOS, and the PMAU at the MOFPED.
Inputs were also sought from District representatives during the May, 2001 Consultative Workshop in
Soroti. Information available from various sources on poverty and service accessibility indicators at district
level have been utilized. In addition, until a better information is available, the latest information on the
number of vulnerable (displaced population, abducted children and drought affected, OCHA Sep/Oct'01)
has been utilized for the VGS component. A simple index ranking indicating conflict levels in the districts
(ranging from 1 for highly conflicted districts to 4 where there is peace) are also included for VGS and
CRCM components. Table 1 shows the indicators that were used to come up with a weighting factor to
rank districts for the project's resource allocation.
Table 1. Indicators Used in Producing Indicative Resource Allocation
Indicator                     Component (where used)      Weight (%)   Source
Household Expenditure Per     CDI                         25          UNDP Uganda HDR
Capita                                                                2 000
Primary Pupil Classroom Ratio fo CDI                      10           Ministry of Education
Government Schools Using                                               2001
Classrooms in Use, 2001
Primary Gross Enrolment       CDI                         15           Ministry of Education
Ratio (GER), 2000                                                      2001
% Without Access to Safe      CDI                         20           UNDP Uganda HDR
Water (within 5 KM)                                                    2000, UBOS
% Without Access to Health    CDI                         15           UNDP Uganda HDR
Services                                                               2000, UBOS
All Weather Road (%           CDI                         15           National Service
within 5 KM)                                                           Delivery Survey 2001
Vulnerability Index           VG                          75           UNOCHA Sep/Oct'01
Conflict Ranking Index        VG                          25           Advisory Group
Conflict Ranking Index        CRCM                        100          Advisory Group
Districts were ranked for each of the indicators and were then weighted and summed up across districts to
produce a composite district weight ranging from the most deprived (1) to the least deprived (18). The per
capita resource allocation has been adjusted so that the worst-off districts get more than their share while
the better-off ones get less than their share, within a range of +20% to -20% (weighting factor) for CDI and
VGS components. For CRCM, the weighting factor ranges from +50% to -50%.
Guidelinesfor Targeting and Resource Allocations Below the Distict Level: This methodology should
cascade below district levels whereby districts (and local stiuctures below themn) will undertake indicative
resource allocation exercises for their sub-counties (and below) using local data and information by
establishing committees; this is particularly important in incorporating current information on vulnerability
and conflict. Intra-District (and even below) ranking is critical, since there are pockets within Districts
which are worse-off - aggregation at the district level will not capture disparities within a district. Districts
and other local government bodies can play an active role by targeting and prioritizing the more deprived
and weaker communities, and by carrying out a more focused facilitation process in order to stimulate
-40 -



demand. This process has been outlined in the Project's sub-project cycle as part of the mobilization phase.
At the community level, gender equity is taken on board by ensuring at least 50% female membership in the
Community Project Committees.
The overall result is in Table 2. Detailed tables and discussions can be found in the Project's Operational
Manual.
Table 2. Indicative Project Resource Allocation
_                     A~zo~spte
cDI                 t\ACK4   Pject POF&on June A*usted
]RasJw  VGS RePout RSSOe     Resb       2D01, UNHS  Albicatc ($)
. S        _ New__ict OldDosebakn        oabm       Albcxatn  AMoati    2001  fo     r Projed
_*t Fund Albic                          78_7_/_ _9.__ 23°/c            1_.0_                     19._
,Ach         A          U             5.00/c     41/       62°/       4.90/a   261,62         22
A_d__ K____           IGIrum        9.80        9.8k/   12.20/       9.90/    514, 60        23.
K Iam      INa A   k   Matitt         2.50/      210/      2.70/c     2.40/c   131,c          22f
-  Kao      Maoub      Mco            3.10/a     260/c     34%        3.00/    164,66         22.
4 Kimi      KVXd CAIC                 4.50/      4.1 0/    530        440/c    257X           21.1
Teso       Krri       KIxi           6.60/c    4.80/     3.0/        620°     3762t          20.
1 Teso       KaM        Scr            42°/       4.60/c    570        430/     240,5W         22.2
1 Teso       Palbsa     Paisa          8.50/      620/°    3.80/o      8.00/    485,60         20.2
11 Teso      K   nakb Sorl             220/c      1.90/     1.80/      2.10/°   135,661        19.1
13 Teso      Scrd       Srol           5.40/      490/     4.60/       530/     339,           19.1
-  L9g      Apar       Apc            920/_      830/°     7.80%      9.00/    578,0cci       19.1
-  Lr       Lka        Lira           9.50/      9.6°k     9.00/      9.50/    666,I          17.
1' WestNle   YLn        Ani            1.90/ _    1.90/    280/        2.00     134,87N        17.
1z West Nle  An         Aua           1240/      13i70/    11.60/c    126       8              18.(
1 West Nbe   Nei        Nebti          5.70/o     5.70/o   3.6°/       5.7°k    447,900        15.
1 WestNIe    N   b                     1.30/      1.80/     21/        1.40/    10218          17.1
_   Acd     Git?       GLlu*          620/c      920/°    11.5%       6.9°     483,900        17.
16 West NIe  Ac   L Ic-o               1.60/      240/     260/        1.70/    123,916        17.
= ________  .______                       ._________  ________   __________   6,307,21X
* Note: The Advisory Group suggested that Gulu District be considered separately as a special case due to
the high percentage of the displaced population living in camps. The explanation for Gulu's high ranking is
most likely due to the high cost of living, as well as the displaced population camping in areas where
service is more accessible. This situation should be taken into account.when CDI interventions are being
planned.
Follow-up Work: This work will be continuously updated and fine-tuned by NUSAF Management Unit and
the OPM, with guidance from the Advisory Group, as further information and data become available. In
addition, Districts should elaborate on this work by using district and community level data at their
disposal, which is objective and transparent (e.g., access to services, conflict, vulnerability, and poverty) to
further target their neediest communities and areas.
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
Years Ending
June 30
| Year 1| Year 2      | Year 3  | Year 4   | Year 5     Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.7       14.4       25.5      37.5       37.6       13.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.7        0.7        0.7        0.6       0.6        0.0
Total Project Costs           1.7       15.1       26.2       38.2      38.2       14.1       0.0
,Total Financing               1.7       15.1      26.2       38.2       38.2       14.1       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    1.5       11.4      19.6       28.5       28.5      10.6        0.0
Govemment                  0.2         1.7       2.6        3.7        3.7       1.5        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.0        2.0        4.0        6.0       6.0       2.0        0.0
Other                         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      1.7       15.1       26.2       38.2      38.2       14.1        0.0
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Recurrent cost includes administrative cost for NUSAF Management Unit.
Financial Management
COUNTRY ISSUES
In recent years, significant improvements in public sector accounting and reporting have been achieved.
Most notably, the annual public accounts of Govemment have been produced within the statutory period of
four months after the end of the financial year for each of the past four years. Nevertheless, recent
assessments undertaken by Government jointly with donors, such as the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) that was carried out by IDA in collaboration with the GoU, have identified a number
of areas that need to be strengthened to enhance financial management. The CFAA indicates that
inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both at the center and in the districts pose a major
fiduciary risk. While Uganda has a relatively good budgeting system, accounting for public expenditure
using the present manual system is weak, largely because of weak staff capacities, neglect for timely and
regular recording of transactions, side-stepping of controls, and a lack of financial discipline. It was noted
during the CFAA that findings of audit reports were not regularly followed up and public accounts
contained a number of material non-reconciled balances. There is an acute shortage of qualified
accountants in the public sector. With the support of a number of donor assisted initiatives, such as the
Second Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP II) and the Local Government Development
Project (LGDP) supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralization Support Project
funded by DFID, Government is seeldng to rapidly enhance the financial accountability framework in order
to: mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management; achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness
-42 -



in the use of public funds; enhance transparency and accountability; enhance staff capacity in public
1inancial management; and to establish an appropriate enabling environment for private sector development
and regulation.
'SUMMARY RISK ANALYSIS
The objectives of the project's financial management system are: to ensure that funds are used only for
Iheir intended purposes in an efficient and economical way while implementing agreed activities; to enable
Ihe preparation of accounting and financial management system that enables management to monitor the
efficient implementation of management; and to safeguard the project assets and resources.
The financial management system should also support NUSAF's requests for funding and meet its
r eporting obligations to IDA, Government of Uganda and the communities it serves. The table below
identifies the key risks that management may face in achieving-these objectives and provides a basis for
,ietermining how management should address these risks.
Risk  .                                Risk      Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating
Staff capacity may not be sufficient to  H       NUMU to provide for high quality technical support to
implement all the control procedures as          project committees with the provision of closer
intended at District level (accounting,          backstopping and follow-up. It is to retain option of
internal audit and inspection)                   contracting out accounting and internal audit services.
It will also ensure the recommendations of the
semi-annual capacity assessments carried out under
LGDP aimed at strengthening this capacity are carried
out.
Approval of funds may be delayed due to          NUMU establish clear guidelines for the approval of
political considerations                         sub-projects. Sub-projects above a certain threshold will
require central approval
Funds, especially those for community  M         NUMU to establish: an internal control system; separate
sub-projects, may not be used in an efficient    accounts for project funds; proper authorisation
and economical way and exclusively for           procedures before project expenditure is incurred;
purposes intended.                               procedures for preparation of budgets and monitoring of
budgets, reporting on expenditures; and  intemal audit
verification of expenditures. Sub-project accountability
guidelines to be issued. The NURP I Policy Committee
and the National Steering Committee to provide overall
policy and implementation guidance in the usage and
stewardship of project funds.
Communities to be involved in the monitoring process.
Financial Information may be unreliable          Formats and periodicity of reporting to be deternined.
Verification of expenditures and of the information
contained in periodic reports to be carried out internally
and externally.
Insufficient counterpart funds especially in     Counterpart funds deposited before donor funds can be
light of the poor local revenue base              disbursed
Ignorance of procedures and organisational        Internal control procedures to be documented in the
niles by implementing entities                    form of handbooks and guidelines and these, including
-43 -



those in simplified forms for comnunities, will be
widely circulated.
Slow speed of delivering resources to              Performance benchmnarks for the speed of transfers will
communities and their structures                   be established and remedial actions taken as required.
Funds to be transferred directly from NUMU to
implementing agencies where the risk is highest.
Inadequacy of mechanisms used to identify  M       Participatory planning approaches to be used in
community needs may leave communities out          developing sub-projects. NUMU to provide for support
of many decision-making processes                  to district planning functions.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible Risk)
PLANNING, BUDGETING AND APPROVAL OF WORKPLANS
NUMU will have the responsibility of ultimately ensuring that the plans and budgets of project activities
are realistic and based on valid assumptions. The DTPC shall coordinate and integrate all the sectoral plans
of lower level Local Govemments for presentation to the District Executive Council (DEC), which is the
executive and ultimate planning authority in the district. The DTPC is chaired by the CAO and consists of
the Heads of Department of the district administration and other technical people co-opted by the CAO.
The budgets and workplans will lay down physical and financial targets and will be used to monitor actual
subsequent performance.
At the community level, sub-project plans will be generated by the communities with the help of a
facilitator. Where capacity for generation of these plans is weak, the task will be undertaken by designated
CSOs/CBOs. Proposals for funding the sub-projects identified will be forwarded to the STPC or DTPC for
appraisal and approval and to the District Executive Committee (DEC) for endorsement. Once approved,
the proposals will be forwarded to NUMU for funding. Multi-community sub-projects above US$20,000
up to US$50,000 threshold will be subject to approval by NSC per the recommendations of NUMU.
In their review, NUMU will ensure conformity of all budgets/workplans with NUSAF policies, guidelines
and legal agreements. Specifically, NUMU will: (a) communicate planning & budgeting policy; (b) enforce
timely delivery of budget proposals; (c) review submitted budgets for adequacy and suggest improvements
where necessary; (d) consolidate all budgets into a master budget; (e) submit workplans and cashflow
forecasts to IDA to secure the necessary approvals; and (f) monitor, evaluate and report on performance
against budgets as a management tool.
NUMU will especially see to it that workplans and funding proposals submitted by the actors for funding
assistance are consistent with NUSAF objectives and that budgets are realistic. NUMU shall promptly
communicate to implementers confirming approvals and any amenements (if applicable) as soon as IDA
has approved the annual workplans.
FLOW OF FUNDS
Bank accounts
The following bank accounts will be maintained by NUMU for NUSAF funds:
*   A Special Account denominated in US dollars to serve as the main project account into which will be
deposited project implementation funds from IDA.
* A Counterpart Fund Account denominated in Uganda shillings to channel GOU counterpart funds.
-44 -



The accounts will be maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and their signatories will be
(letermined and documented in the FMM.
In addition to these, every participating district shall establish a separate bank account for the project to be
used exclusively for project funds in accordance with Local Government regulations. NGOs/CBOs and
CPMCs will also be required to open bank accounts purposely for project funds.
Memorandum of Understanding (MOP)
Bach Local Authority, CSO/NGO/CBO and private sector agency supported by the project shall enter into
an MOU with the NUSAF regarding obligations and responsibilities of either party. In addition, the LA,
CSO/NGO/CBO and private sector agency would also enter into a Sub-project Agreement (to be witnessed
by the NDTO with the respective multi-community/community for the implementation of the sub-project.
A valid MOU will be a requirement for both initial and subsequent disbursements to a LA,
,CSOs/NGOs/CBOs and private sector agency.
In addition, each community, represented by its CPMC, with a sub-project supported under the project
shall enter into a Sub-project Agreement with NUMU represented by the NDTO regarding obligations and
responsibilities of either party with respect to project implementation and management.
The agreements shall specify the number and size of tranches through which sub-project funds will be
disbursed and the period in which reports on the usage of these funds will be prepared and submitted by the
respective sub-project implementing agencies.
Disbursement of IDA Credit to NUMU
The disbursement of the IDA Credit will be done quarterly based on Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
that integrate project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with physical
progress of project implementation. The FMRs will include project financial reports, a project progress
report and a procurement management report .
An initial six month forecast of project expenditures will be agreed between the NUSAF and the Bank. This
will cover the first two quarters, i.e the first two FMR periods. Following this agreement, an advance
relating to aggregate disbursement requests not exceeding the forecast amount will be payable by the Bank
upon demand by NUSAF. After the first and each subsequent quarter, the project will submit to IDA
FMRs and relevant supporting documentation (see below) relating to each disbursement. IDA will be
responsible for reviewing these to confinn the eligibility of expenditures during the period covered by the
FMR. Through their review, IDA will also ensure that intemal controls as documented in the Financial
Management Handbook have reasonably been applied by NUMU in their disbursement of funds to
implementing agencies. The FMR will also contain a new forecast for the next two FMR periods. The cash
request relating to each FMR will be the amount indicated in the approved cashflow forecast for the
following six months less the balance in the Special Account at the end of the FMR period. Subsequent
disbursements of the IDA Credit will therefore be made in respect of similar cash requests.
Additional supporting documentation relevant to each FMR includes: statements containing institutional
information; source of supply information; breakdown of aggregate disbursements by legal disbursement
category and disbursement percentage; a Special Account reconciliation statement; a Special Account bank
statement. Information relating to details for contracts above the prior review threshold as indicated above
- 45 -



will be captured using World Bank standard contract information documents upon the inception of the
contract and will not therefore be required upon the preparation of the periodic FMR.
Disbursement of funds from NUMU to implementing agencies
The experience of several projects which have tried to channel resources to communities through Local
Govermment structures, as well as the findings of the surveys carried out in the five sub-regions, have
identified four major constraints in transferring funds to communities: delivering resources to communities
is slow; the proportion of resources taken up by structures meant to promote delivery is unsustainably high;
the services delivered are not always relevant to the needs of the poor; and the mechanisms used to identify
community needs are poorly developed and communities are left out of many decision-making processes.
To address these, NUSAF and the implementing agencies will develop resource targets for the speed and
cost of delivery of funds and the proportion reaching communities. It is expected that the participatory
planning tools being formulated under the leadership of the Ministry of Local Government will adequately
address the concems over relevance and inclusiveness of targeted beneficiaries. Depending on the
achievement of these targets by districts, NUSAF will disburse funds to implementing agencies using three
mechanisms:
-Mechanism 1: Funds will be disbursed from NUMU to the district for Multi-Community projects whose
implementation will be the responsibility of the District,
-Mechanism 2: Funds will be disbursed from NUMU to CSOs including NGOs/CBOs for projects targeted
at vulnerable groups and CRCM, and
-Mechanism 3: Funds will be disbursed from NUMU directly to Community Project Management
Committees (CPMCs) elected by communities to manage discrete community sub-projects like a classroom
block, protected well, granary, etc.
The capacity of districts to meet the targets will be tested when they implement multi-community projects
that require complex management systems. As implementation proceeds, those districts that meet the
targets in the way they deliver sub-projects will be ready to incrementally take over the disbursement of
funds to community sub-projects under Mechanism I above.
CSOs/NGOs and CBOs identified to assist vulnerable groups will initially receive funds directly from
NUMU (once their plans have been approved by the DTPC and endorsed by the DEC on behalf of the
District Council); and use the experience to promote more CBO/NGO-Local Government accountability.
Communities whose projects have been approved by LAs will receive funds directly from NUSAF until the
district under whose area ofjurisdiction they fall has met the resource benchmark targets. Until then, the
CPMCs will receive and account for resources to NUMU and keep the districts informed.
- 46 -



The mechanisms for disbursement can be illustrated as follows:
CSO/CBO 4               ~~~DISTRICT                    CONWITY|
KEY
Disbursement of IDA Funds to NUMU
*     Direct financing from NUMU to districts, CBO/CSO and community
b     Financing through District
The procedures which will be used to disburse funds to the implementing agencies shall be detailed in the
Financial Management Handbook (FMH). These will describe the triggers for the release of funds at the
various stages, the timing and periodicity of these disbursements and the accountability required in respect
of these disbursements.
Mechanism I
NUSAF funds shall be deposited in the District's NUSAF account by NUMU to fund sub-projects
approved by the DEC that fall into the multi-community category. The CAO will maintain a separate
NUMU holding account into which the funds will be transferred and from which payments into the
individual respective sub-project accounts will be made as their implementation proceeds. The NDPO, the
respective sector specialist under which the sub-project falls as well as the Chairperson of the CPMC for
the requesting community will certify implementation progress before tranche payments can be made. The
district will be expected to release the funds to the implementing agencies within fourteen days of receiving
the funds from NUMU. This schedule shall apply provided districts have received the funds.
As districts progressively incorporate efficient and effective modalities demonstrated by the other two
mechanisms, more funds will be disbursed to the district for district implemented activities and, where
circumstances allow, for onward transmission to communities.
Communities are responsible for implementing subprojects and making payments to the contractors and
suppliers. Thus, disbursements will be made directly to the bank accounts opened in the name of the
community sub-project by the implementing agency (IA) or CPMC.
The initial disbursement will be made upon receipt by NUMU of a Request for Funds (RFF) from the
districts based on the approved list of sub-projects indicating the mode of execution. This will be a
consolidation of RFFs from communities with the districts' own funds requirement. For multi-community
sub-projects, NUMU will release funds directly to their sub project bank accounts. NUMU will release all
funds for sub-projects in tranches typically of 50%, 35% and 15% of total sub project costs as indicated in
-47 -



the district's workplans. The number of tranches and amount of release per tranche will be as specified in
the sub project agreements.
Disbursement of the 1st tranche will be made upon receipt of sub-project funds from NUMU while the
second and third installments will be disbursed after the NDPO's office has received: a statement of
expenditure so far incurred accompanied by the relevant documents and a reconciled bank statement (if
applicable); a brief report on planned and actual progress with relevant minutes/records of community
meetings; and a workplan for the next phase.
The second installment will only be released after the sub-project has accounted for at least 70% of the first
installment. The third installment will only be disbursed if at least 70% of the second installment and 100%
of first installment has been accounted for.
Before disbursement of the third (final) installment, the NDTO in collaboration with the CPMC, LAs,
CSOs/NGOs and CBO shall undertake a re-assessment of the remaining requirements for completion of the
sub project and revise the budget accordingly.
Where a district has performed to the set targets, more resources would be allocated through the LA and
disbursement of funds to communities will be progressively made by the CAO or his representative after
they have received: (a) a summary of the sub-project approval report signed by the NDTO; (b) details of
the bank account or other acceptable options for keeping funds; and (c) a work-plan for the first phase.
The second and third installments will be disbursed after the NDTO has forwarded for the clearance by the
justification officer: (a) a statement of expenditures and accompanying relevant documents of all purchases
made by the IA or community committees; (b) a bank statement for the sub-project which reconciles these
expenditures; (c) a brief report on planned and actual progress, and (d) a work-plan for the next phase.
Before disbursement of the third (fimal) installment, the NDTO in collaboration with the IA or CPMC shall
undertake a re-assessment of the remaining requirements for completion of the sub-project and revise the
budget accordingly. This will address over or under expenditures arising out of inflation and incorrect
pricing at the time of project design, appraisal and approval.
Mechanisms 2 and 3
Under these mechanisms, funds will be directly disbursed from NUMU to the CSOs/NGOs/CBOs and
communities bank accounts. The triggers for the release of funds and the tranching of disbursements will be
similar to those under Mechanism 1.
Communities are responsible for implementing sub-projects and making payments to the contractors and
suppliers. Thus, disbursements will be made directly to the bank accounts opened in the name of the
community sub-project by the implementing agency (LA) or CPMC.
Counterpart Funds
The GOU will provide counterpart funds amounting to 10% of the total project costs. These funds are
allocated annually, indicated quarterly, and released monthly based on approved workplans. The project
will submit quarterly accountability statements to GoU.
In addition, GOU will fund the staff costs of the OPM staff who provide support to the project, including
the Pernanent Secretary who is the Chairman of the National Steering Comrnittee (NSC). The role of the
- 48 -



NSC is to provide overall implementation and management guidance, coordinate sector linkages, and
approve NUSAF budget, annual workplans and sub-projects. It is comprised of government officers and
civil society whose costs constitute indirect costs met on behalf of the GOU. At the district and sub-county
levels, the district and sub-county technical staff will perform various appraisal, approval and supervision
functions with the support of conmnunities throughout the sub-project cycle. Their staff costs will be paid
for by the LAs and will constitute an indirect contribution on behalf of GOU. The DEC meets up to six
times a year initially to endorse approved sub-projects and forwards them to Council for notation. The
technical staff are full time staff of LAs whose salaries add to the indirect cost contribution of GOU. In
addition, OPM and LAs will provide office space for both NUMU (located in a region to be decided on)
and the eighteen district NUMU office space needs. The estimated level of indirect financing borne by
central government and local government organs will amount to at least 8% of total project costs which
should be adequate to cover the indirect tax element of the project.
Community Contribution
Communities will be expected to contribute 20% for CDI and 5% for VGS and CRCM. Guidelines will be
formulated for the recording and valuing of the labor contribution and other contributions-in-kind. These
will be detailed in the Sub-project operational manuals and handbooks.
Remedies against non-submission of returns and other financial information
IDA will have the right, as reflected in the Development Credit Agreement, to suspend disbursement to
NUMU if reporting requirements are not complied with. Similarly, Participating agreements will grant a
right of suspension to NUMU and the district if proper supporting documentation is not subtnitted from
lower levels of irnplementation as required.
DETAILED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES
Accounting policies and procedures
The project's accounting policies will specify the accounting treatment for its financial transactions and
will constitute basic principles designed to ensure that the accounting records are complete, relevant and
reliable and that accounting practices are followed consistently. The accounting policies and procedures
will be documented in a Financial Management Handbook. The relevant accounting procedures pertaining
to NGOs, CBOs and comnmunities will also be documented in the respective Community Sub-project
Handbook. These procedures should be designed to guide activities and ensure accountability for NUSAF
funds. Proper guidelines will be put in place to ensure that only authorized persons can alter or establish a
new accounting principle, policy, or procedure to be used by the entity. The handbooks will be distributed
widely within the NUMU accounting department, districts, NGOs/CBOs and to the community as required.
The accounts will be prepared on a cash basis in accordance with International Accounting Standards.
NUMU will have an accounting system that allows for the proper recording of project financial
transactions, including the allocation of expenditures in accordance with the respective components,
disbursement categories, and sources of fumds. Controls over the preparation and approval of transactions
should be put in place to ensure that all transactions are correctly made, recorded and reported upon. A list
of accounts codes (Chart of Accounts) should also be drawn up. This should match with the classification
of expenditures and sources and application of funds indicated in the Credit Agreement. The Chart of
accounts should be developed in a way that allows project costs to be directly related to specific work
activities and outputs of the project.
-49 -



Systems of internal control for NUSAF will be designed to ensure that: every transaction that should have
been entered into the accounting system is recorded; unauthorized transactions are prevented; transactions
are analyzed and recorded correctly;, cannot be tampered with; unauthorized access is denied; assets of the
entity are neither misappropriated nor used in an uneconomical or inefficient fashion; management policies
(in budgets, long-range forecasts etc.) are complied with; deviations from plans are noted, investigated and
timely responses made; financial information is communicated in the most effective way so that those
entitled to it may maximize their use of it; and the financial statements show a true and fair view.
Internal control systems will be fully documented, and regularly updated, in the FMH.
Financial management and accountability under the NUSAF can be traced from the national, district right
down to the community levels.
At national level, the Director of Finance and Administration (DFA), supported by an accountant, and the
NUSAF Executive Director (NED) will ensure implementation of well-defined and transparent financial
management and reporting procedures to be followed by districts and communities. Details of the
procedures will be outlined in the Financial Management Handbook. Both the DFA and the NED will be
responsible for the preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements or reports reflecting all district
NUSAF transactions.
At district and sub-county levels, suitable procedures for disbursing and accounting for community funds
will be adopted and managed by the Accounts Assistant (AA) in the NDTO's office. The system to be
followed by the CPMC and CSOANGO or private agency, shall be simple enough to be used and
maintained by the community with minimum assistance from teh AA and at the same time meet NUSAF
and IDA requirements. However, the records of funds utilized shall be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The NDTO's office will provide the necessary support to facilitate speedy
justification of expenditures and tranching as well as submit periodic reports to the CAO.
At the community level, the CBO/CSO or CPMC financial management and administration needs will be
identified and members of the community shall be trained in the maintenance of accurate accounts for the
funds utilized. This will partly be done during the sub-project launch. The training materials for the
community level shall contain information on simple accounting approved by the accounting specialists
within IDA.
Staffing
Adequate staffing arrangements will be put in place to ensure that NUMU has appropriately qualified and
experienced staff. Written position descriptions that clearly define duties, responsibilities, lines of
supervision, and limits of authority for all the officers, managers, and staff will be drawn up and reflected
in the accounting department's organization chart. The duties and responsibilities of the accounting staff
will be determined and documented. An appropriate training programme which will include World Bank
financial management procedures will be designed for staff. The allocation of responsibilities should enable
the appropriate segregation of duties to ensure proper accountability.
Books of accounts
Books of accounts will be set up and regularly maintained to record project transactions. These will include
a general ledger, cashbook and subsidiary ledgers. A proper filing system that allows authorized users easy
access will be set up to ensure that all accounting and supporting documents are retained on a permanent
- 50 -



basis and properly maintained. Each supported community subproject committee will keep a simplified
cashbook and/or ledger, a register for procured goods, and a statement of community contribution. Original
documents of accountability for all sub-project activities will be maintained by project staff at the relevant
district offices.
Financial Reporting
Formats of the various periodic financial reports to be generated from the financial management system
will be developed. There will be clear linkages between the infornation in these reports and the Chart of
Accounts. The financial reports will be designed to provide quality and timely information to project
management, implementing agencies, and various stakeholders on project perfornance. The Financial
Management Handbook will define financial management reporting responsibilities, the reports to be
prepared, their content and how they are to be used.
FMRs will be produced on a quarterly basis to support requests for replenishment of the Special Account
and will include finaricial, project progress and procurement management reports. Annual financial
statements and annexes for the project will include: a statement of sources and uses of finds, notes in
respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards, a special account statement, a special
account reconciliation, project progress report, and a Summary of FMR based credit withdrawals.
Indicative formats of these statements will be developed in accordance with IDA requirements.
Information systems
The accounting system for NUMU shall be computerized. It will enable the production of the necessary
project financial reports. Accounting staff will be adequately trained to maintain the system and
appropriate controls will be instituted to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data.
Audit Arrangements
Internal Auditing
As an important part of the ongoing monitoring of the system of internal controls, the intemal audit
function will provide an independent assessment of the adequacy of, and compliance with, the established
controls, policies and procedures. The Internal Audit Department will report directly to the Steering
Committee or its audit committee, and to senior management in order to ensure that the information about
project activities is unbiased. The Internal audit Department will be staffed with competent, well-trained
individuals who have a clear understanding of their role and responsibilities. The frequency and extent of
internal audit review and testing of the intemal controls will be consistent with the nature, complexity, and
risk of NUSAF's activities. Project management will be expected to correct the deficiencies in a timely
manner. In order to ensure proper and timely follow-up action, NUMU will establish a system to track
intemal control weaknesses and actions taken to rectify them.
Intemal audit arrangements relating to communities and local govemments will be executed as provided for
in the Local Govenmment Financial and Accounting Regulations. Reliance shall be placed on the District
Intemal Auditor with respect to funds provided by NUSAF for activities implemented in the district. A
Local Govenmment Intemal Audit Manual was issued in January 2000 and includes guidance to Local
Govemment Internal Auditors on the objectives and procedures of intemal audit engagements in local
govermments. Arrangements will be made within the NUSAF institutional setup to complement district
intemal audit capacity where necessary. NUMU will also make arrangements to monitor compliance with
- 51 -



procedures in the use of funds for conmmunity sub-projects and performance benchmarks maintained by
conmmunities for directly-funded sub-projects
Intemnally, the District Intemal Auditor supported by the NUMU Intemal Auditor will conduct regular
audit verification of sub-project transactions to ascertain whether individual expenditure is eligible for
financing under the project and fully supported by adequate documentation. Furthermore, they will ensure
that supporting documents are reliable and accurate. District intemal audit reports will be prepared and
submitted to the District NUMU officer and to the NUMU intemal auditor. Technical supervision and
financial audits carried out regularly by the technical district staff and the internal auditors will be used as
part of monitoring and evaluation exercise, and may also be used as basis for further fund releases to the
districts and communities.
The internal auditor based at NUMU will conduct spot and year-end financial audits in some randomly
selected communities. Technical and financial audits will also be carried out regularly by the district
internal auditors. In addition, NUMU will contract an outside evaluator to conduct year-end process and
performance audits in some randomly selected sub-projects.
External Auditing
The Auditor General is primarily responsible for the auditing of all govemment projects and provision is
made in the project budget to cover the cost of the audit. The audit may be subcontracted to a firm of
private auditors, with the final report being issued by the Auditor General based on the tests carried out by
the subcontracted firm. The external auditor will conduct a year-end audit and review both financial and
performance aspects in some randomly selected sub-projects based on TOR cleared by the Bank.
Local Govemments are also bound by law to prepare and cause to be audited their accounts and financial
statements. Where funds are disbursed to districts for onward transmission to implementing agencies or for
district implemented activities, these will be reflected in the financial statements of the relevant district
which will be subjected to audit in accordance with the governing law. The audited financial statements of
NGOs and other implementing agencies will be examined as part of the process to determine their
continuing suitability to implement sub-projects under NUSAF.
Arrangements for the external audit of the financial statements of the project will be deternined and
communicated to IDA The audited financial statements together with the auditor's report thereon and the
auditor's management letter covering identified internal control and accounting system weaknesses will be
submitted to IDA within six months after end of each financial year. Any firm of auditors subcontracted to
carry out the audit should meet the IDA's requirements in terms of independence, qualifications and
experience.
- 52 -



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Issue                      Remedial Action Recommended                Due Date
Documentation of Financial  A Financial Management Handbook will be   September 30,
Management procedures     developed describing accounting systems and  2002
procedures for the project and the format and
content of monthly/quarterly and annual
financial reports.
Staffing                  Suitably qualified and competent key staff for overall September 30,
coordination, financial management and procurement 2002
should be appointed for NUMU
Reporting Arrangements    A reporting structure for both internal management September 30,
and external needs will be developed and will  2002
comprise Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
which will be determined and agreed with IDA.
Project Accounting System  The accounting system should be fully computerized January 31, 2003
in order to keep track, collect and provide
information on approved budgets, procurement,
expenditures, sources of funds and outputs, measured
by monitoring indicators
Chart of Accounts.        A Chart of Accounts should be designed to provide  September 30,
information that reflects type of project, sources of  2002
funds, and the relevant expenditure accounts that is
consistent with expenditure categories in the DCA,
project components and sub-components and
activities
Training and Development of A training program should be developed for  March 31, 2003
Accounting Staff          accounting staff in NUMU, districts and other
implementing entities. The training program should
cover World Bank financial management policies and
procedures.                                 March 31, 2003
An implementation plan for skills development
should also be developed.
Monitoring and Evaluation  Monitoring anrangements should be put in place, and September 30,
System                    clear remedial actions should be taken in the event of 2002
non compliance with established procedures.
Terms of Reference for the  Terms of Reference for the audit of the   March 31, 2003
extemal auditors          project's financial statements will be prepared
and agreed with IDA.
Maiin assumptions:
- 53 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in February 2001. The CPAR makes
six major recommendations: (a) revising the existing procurement regulations to make them more
transparent, efficient and economic; (b) abolishing the current Central Tender Board (CTB) and creating a
procurement regulatory body, the National Procurement Policy Unit (NPPU) - Renamed the Reformed
Central Tender Board (RCTB); (c) creating contract committees in all procuring entities; (d) creating
procurement units in all procuring entities; (e) employing procurement agents to support all those
procurement entities without adequate capacity; and (f) promulgating a procurement law based on the
UNCITRAL model.
Implementation of the above recommendations started officially on March 1, 2001, when new Procurement
Regulations, "The Public Finance (Procurement) Regulations, 2000 ", became effective. On the same
day, the CTB ceased to exist in its old form with its functions being taken over by contract committees
established in each ministry/procuring entity. Each procuring entity is now completely responsible and
accountable for all its procurement. The RCTB should have been operational on the same day but there
were delays in appointing the Board and recruiting top officials of the Secretariat. The RCTB was fully
operational on September 1, 2001. A draft procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model has been
drafted and will be submitted to Cabinet soon. The plan is to present the bill to Parliament by April 15,
2002. In the meantime, the new Regulations will continue as the legal instrument for controlling
procurement in public entities. Implementation of the recommendations started under PRSC1 and is
continuing under PRSC2.
The CPAR identified the lack of adequate procurement capacity as the single most important issue in
public sector procurement in Uganda. This has been confirmed in another study carried out in 70 procuring
entities at Central and Local Govemment level. One of the interim solutions that is suggested in the CPAR
is the employment of consultants to assist weak procurement units.
The exact mix of goods and services to be procured under the three NUSAF components, CDI, VGS and
CRCM will depend on the community prioritized sub-projects and is not known 'a priori'. Whereas the
type of activities to be financed under the project have been defined, the specific procuremerits
(goods,works and services) to support these activities have yet to be defined precisely. This is particularly
true for procurement to support activities at the sub-county/multi-community and community levels (more
than 80% of the total program) which will be demand driven and determined by the approvals as carreid
out by the DTPCs and endorsed, on a quarterly basis when the District Executive Committee meets. CPMC
will take primary responsibility for procuring for community sub-projects while the local authorities (LAs),
civil society organizations (CSOs)/ NGOs and private sector will do the same for the sub-projects that they
implement and manage on behalf of the communities respectively. Other procurement such as technical
assistance (TA) and training, are agreed based on the needs identified for the first year, while the costs for
subsequent years are only indicative and based on a pre-determined menu of activities that will guide
preparation of sub-projects.
All goods and services would be procured in accordance with "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
- 54 -



i999 ". Bank's standard bidding documents for works and goods and standard evaluation forms would be
used where practicable. Based on these Guidelines, simple procurement procedures for application at the
community level would be developed in accordance with Section 3.15 - Community Participation in
E'rocurement, as part of the OM and supporting Procurement Handbook. Procurement by the LAs under
the multi-community sub-projects would follow their guidelines as outlined in the OM, provided the same
are consistent with the IDA ones. All procurement of consultant services would be done in accordance with
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
in September 1997 and January 1999. " Bank's Standard Requests for Proposals and evaluation forms
would be used where practicable.
Procurement Planning and Monitoring
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and must be published in the UN Development
l3usiness and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines, immediately after negotiations.
The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding Intemational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) for goods contracts and all Intemational Consulting Services. Specific Procurement Notices
for goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions of Interest for consultant services estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$200,000 and above will also be published in the Development Business. Details on
project costs by procurement arrangements are presented in Table A.
Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national, district and community) will
be carried out through annual ex-post procurement audits and regular ad-hoc reviews. Such audits would:
(a) verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed for the projects were in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA);
(b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness of each contract in the
selected representative sample;
(c) review and comment on contract administration and management issues as dealt with by participating
agencies;
(d) review capacity of participating agencies in handling procurement efficiently; and
(e) identify improvements in the procurement process in the light of any identified deficiencies.
MAonitoring of procurements shall start with setting up procurement indicators at NUMU, district and
sub-project levels. This will be done in consultation with the communities concemed. The team entrusted
with monitoring shall use the established indicators to assess whether the quality of the goods, works and
services procured matches the funds spent.
The supplies officer at the district will monitor and coordinate the procurement activities in collaboration
with sub-county authorities. This will be achieved through special field visits to each sub-project and
assessments of procurement procedures followed by the CPMC, LA and CSO/NGO at least once in every
(quarter.
Price Data Bank
NUMU will develop and maintain a data base of sub-regionally specific market prices, e.g. West Nile,
- 55 -



Karamoja, Teso, etc., as part of the cost control system and to assure that contract selection is transparent
and economic. The data would include costs and rates for at least 40 of the most commonly required items
based on project costs during the previous three months, or from a random sample of suppliers and
employers: Such unit prices would be updated at least on a quarterly basis. Unit prices of the other
required items would be updated on a rotational basis, to be updated at least twice a year. The data would
be used in appraisal and monitoring, as a tool to review the project budget and as a guide when
procurement is done through the LAs, CSOs/NGOs and the private sector. Details of the methodology for
preparing the data base would be provided in the OM.
Procurement Management
NUMU will be responsible for procurement of goods and consulting services that will be provided at the
management unit (MU) and district offices. A procurement specialist will be appointed at NUMU whose
function would be to oversee all procurement. The specialist will develop the standard documents for use in
all procurement and ensure that relevant procurement forms are made available, train participating staff
from districts/NGOs/CBOs and private sector, and CPMCs, in completing the forms and periodically
review procurements for compliance with the guidelines. Even though the LAs would use their own
procedures to procure within the agreed ceilings, the specialist would ensure that these procedures are
consistent with the IDA ones.
At the district level, a NDTO will be responsible for the coordination of the project activities under the day
to day supervision of the CAO. The projects officer, who sits in the planning office, remains technically
accountable to NUMU. For procurement matters, the NDTO will rely on the procurement specialist for
advice.
An OM, Procurement and Financial Management Handbooks are being prepared in which the details of
procurement, including standard forms to be used, are outlined. The OM and handbooks are living
documents which will be updated as new lessons are learnt, subject to agreement between GOU and IDA.
Community Procurement
Community Development Initiatives
The CPMC is responsible for procuring all the human and material resources necessary for the
implementation of the community sub-projects under the CDI. The CPMC shall follow the tender
procedures for community procurement when procuring goods and hiring labor.
The NDTO/NUMU through the district shall provide the necessary training to the CPMC members in
procurement, disbursement and accounting principles before receiving the funds to enable them carry out
the procurement function in a manner acceptable to the Government and the World Bank. Sub projects
implemented by more than one implementing agency (i.e. the CPMC and CSO) shall form a procurement
committee composed of both CPMC and CSO representatives (with the majority being from the CPMC),
and the members of which must be named in the Sub-project Agreement. Such a committee shall be given
copies of these procedures translated into local language.
Since the CPMCs are entrusted with the management of sub-projects under the CDI, they will constitute a
small Procurement Committee consisting of members from the CPMC, the community and its leaders. All
members of the CPMC will be trained in procurement, disbursement and accounting principles before
- 56 -



receiving the funds to enable them to be aware and rotate. The members of the procurement committee,
which should be gender balanced, shall be named in the financing agreement signed by the chairperson of
the CPMC on behalf of the community. The sub-projects under CDI would be mostly small,
labor-intensive, community based activities such as construction of classrooms, teachers' houses,
community roads, granaries, water wells, dug-out ponds, valley tanks, etc. It's unlikely, therefore, that
these activities would attract international bidders. The average size of the sub-projects would be
US$20,000, approval of which is by the District Steering Committee (DSC).
Vulnerable Groups Support (VGS)
Under the VGS, CSOs/NGOs and the private sector would support the disadvantaged groups improve their
earnings and quality of life through providing them with life-skills, tool-kits to work on sub-projects,
promotive care for people living with and affected by HIV/AIDS, support to orphans, etc. Community
groups would still identify and prioritize the sub-projects to be implemented with the support of the
CSOs/NGOs and the private sector. The average size of sub-projects under VGS would be US$5,000 with
a maximum of US$10,000 to be approved by the DPTC and endorsed by the DEC. CSOs/NGOs and the
private sector would use simple procurement rules and procedures similar to community procedures, i.e.
local shopping, direct contracting and local bidding to obtain needed goods and services. NUMU would
enter into sub-project agreements with the respective CSOs/NGOs and the private sector which would
include a fee not exceeding 10% of the sub-project cost. However, in order to ensure quality of work and
adherence to sector norms and standards, the CSOs/NGOs and the private sector would be technically
supervised by the district teams. The NDTO would faciltitate the signing of tripartite agreements between
the district, CSOs/NGOs and the private sector, and NUMU to put the afore-mentioned into effect.
Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management (CRCA)
Procurement under the CRCM would follow the pattern of the VGS, whereby specialized CSOs/NGOs and
CBOs provide the facilitation and support of community reconciliation activities such as holding
reconciliation meetings and/or negotiations between clans and/or tribes, supporting inter-tribal dialogue
including visits to other districts, counselling and provision of psyco-social support to returnees,
ex-abductees, gun-drop-outs, and the receiving communities, etc. However, the respective affected
communities would identify their needs with respect to peace interventions and prioritize them for support
by the skilled CSOs/NGOs and CBOs. Traditionally established practices for cleansing, inter-clan
dialogue, re-integration into the family and clan, etc. would be funded as requested. The average size of
sub-projects under CRCM would be US$3,000 with a maximum of US$10,000 to be approved by the
DPTC and endorsed by the DEC. CSOs/NGOs and CBOs would use simple procurement rules and
procedures similar to community procedures, i.e. local shopping, direct contracting and local bidding, to
procure goods and services under this component.
Multi-community Sub-projects
For the Multi-community sub-projects such as community roads, laboratories for secondary schools, etc.,
LA Tender Boards, rules and regulations would guide procurement provided they are consistent with IDA
rules. The average size of the sub-projects would be US$20,000, with a maximum size of US$50,000 for
community roads under the LAs, subject to the approval of the NSC. Procurement procedures for goods
and services may not necessarily be in line with the laid out local government regulations. LAs would adopt
them for use as part of the agreement to implement this project. However, agreed performance and
processing benchmarks to ensure speedy turn-around time would be entered into between NUMU and
individual districts and incorporated into the MOU.
- 57 -



Bidding under Community Procurement
Before community subprojects have been approved, the district authorities send a general advertisement
(equivalent to the GPN in ICB) to the local radios and newspapers or the actual locality where potential
contractors and suppliers are likely to visit. Such places are the district, sub-county, parish and village
notice boards.
Such local advertising would help improve transparency and increase competition. Potential candidates
would be encouraged to express their interest either directly to the communities or NGO/CBO or to the
District project authorities, which will keep a list of potential bidders (contractors and suppliers) who have
the experience and track record to participate in actual bidding. The list of contractors and suppliers would
help the community to identify qualified bidders to contract.
Once the subproject has been approved, the community shall adopt any of the following bidding options:
Local shopping whereby an invitation to bid is sent to a minimum of three bidders that they have selected
themselves. Here, the lowest evaluated bidder is awarded the contract on the basis of a set criteria;
Direct contracting whereby the CPMC identifies and selects a contractor/supplier/consultant familiar to
the community, negotiates a price with him/her and awards the contract based on the agreed price. This
shall occur in case a competitive method is not practicable to the community; and
Local bidding whereby a specific notice is placed at the local notice boards at village or sub-county or
district level. Here at least 15 days shall be allowed to prepare and submit bids, and ensure that the date,
time and place for the public bid opening and the deadline for submission is indicated. Bids are examined
and those that do not meet the minimum specifications in respect of experience, quality of works (track
record), equipment, services offered and the delivery dates are eliminated.
The next step will be to select the bidder who meets the minimum requirements and offers the lowest price
using a simple evaluation form for NUSAF bids. The award and amount of the contract is then announced
to all bidders and the contract is signed within 5 working days of the announcement. Simple or locally
available goods and services such as bicycles, timber, nails, paint, roofing sheets and office equipment like
filing cabinets, pens, notebooks receipt books and cement shall be procured by obtaining at least three
quotes from reliable suppliers:
Table 2 summarizes the procedures, schedule and actors of the bidding process and award of contracts.
Table 2: Summary of local bidding procedures, schedule and actors
Level         Task/Action               Actors         Timin                Note
District      General advertisement on the  CAO        After project launch  See Annex 009
opportunities to bid.
District     Establishing a roster of potential CAO   After the first
contractors and suppliers.               advertisement and
thereafter.
- 58 -



Community     Advertising community     CPMC           Soon after notification of Advert should be in
procurement using local notice           subproject approval.  Writing.
boards, radios, religious and
other gatherings.
Community     Issuing bidding documents to  CPMC       Within two days from  Using documents
interested bidders.                      expressed interest by  provided by the
potential bidders.   District.
Community     Bid opening and evaluation.  CPMC        Bid opening at the  Record prices and
announced time and   members and bidders
place, and evaluation  names, bid evaluation
within a week of the  to be prepared for
opening.            ex-post financial
review.
Community     Decision on the award and  CPMC          Within 14 days of the bid Award announced to all
announcing it.                           opening.             bidders; a copy of bid
evaluation form and
award decision sent to
the NDTO.
Community     Signing of the contract.  CPMC           Within five working
days of announcing of
the award.
Contracts for goods and supplies
Goods and supplies under conununity procurement will be procured through local shopping procedures i.e.
obtaining quotations from three reliable suppliers. The CPMC, LA, CSO/NGO and private sector may also
furnish invitations directly to potential bidders. The secretary of the CPMC, LA, CSO/NGO and private
sector shall advertise the availability of such contracts through distribution announcements on
village/parish/sub-county council notice boards or social gatherings in the district All invoices received
with addresses and telephone numbers, shall be maintained in the records along with others that have been
solicited, and filed. The secretary of the CPMC, LA, CSO/NGO and the private sector shall record the
minutes of the meeting where the decision to award the contract to one of the three suppliers was taken and
have them signed individually. In case the contract is not awarded to the lowest bidder, clear explanations
for that choice must be provided.
Contractsfor works may also be procured through obtaining three invoices. Once again these invoices
have to be kept and the reasons for awarding the contract must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting of
the Procurement Comnittee and signed by all members. Works under any of the components will be
carried out within the sub-projects and are governed by the sub-project cycle requirements and procedures.
It suffices to note that since civil works are technical in nature, they will require close supervision under the
CDI component and, in order to ensure standards, all community subprojects on civil works will be referred
to the respective specialized sectors, LAs and CSOs/NGOs at sub-county/district level during
implementation and management
Force Account
Force account may be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent (up to an
- 59 -



aggregate amount of US$2 million equivalent) in accordance with clause 3.8 of the Guidelines, where: the
works are small and scattered or in remote locations for which qualified construction firms are unlikely to
bid at reasonable prices.
Goods and Equipment
Goods and equipment to be procured would include vehicles, office equipment, computers and software for
NUMU and NUSAF district offices under the CAO. The total estimated cost of goods and equipment is
US$ 2.7 million. Contracts which are estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$100,000 will be
obtained by ICB procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000, but more than US$
25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.5 million equivalent may be procured using
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and IAPSO. Goods and equipment estimated to cost less
than US$ 25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 0.5 million equivalent, may be
procured by shopping procedures in accordance with the Guidelines. Contracts on or above the individual
threshold of US$ 100,000 equivalent will be subjected to IDA's prior review.
Consultancy Services:
The project will finance consultancy services for the preparation of the Financial and Accounting Manual;
Management Information System (M[S); Monitoring and Evaluation System; and Capacity Building
required by the various stakeholders. Consultancy services will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of consultants by the World Bank Borrowers published in
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and, January 1999, and using the appropriate Standard Forms of
Contract. In principle, the project will encourage, to extent possible, engagement of national consultants
with the view to develop local capacity, in accordance with Bank's Guidelines. This may be done through
short-listing of national consultants in the cases of contracts of small values (below thresholds; see below).
However, foreign firms/consultants will probably be used for more complex assignments and in case of
expression of interest, they will not be excluded from the selection process for smaller assignments.
Contracts estimated to cost on or above the threshold of US$ 100,000 for firms will be awarded through
the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method ( refer to Section II, para. 2.1-2.28, of the
Consultant Guidelines). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firmns may be awarded on
the basis of consultants qualifications (CQ). The short-list for contracts below the threshold of US$
100,000, in which local capacity is readily available, may comprise entirely of national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of individual
consultants will be made according to Section V, para. 5.1-5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional cases as
defined in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the Guidelines, contracts for firms or individuals maybe awarded on
single source basis if it is so determnined that competition would not achieve the objectives of efficiency,
economy and transparency.
The standard "Request for Proposals (RFP)" and the For ms of Contracts as developed by the Bank will be
used for the appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignment, i.e.,
those note exceeding three months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. Firms will be invited to
submit expression of interest for each assignment. Prior IDA review will apply for (i) Terms of Reference
(TOR) for all consultancy services; (ii) contracts to be awarded on the basis of single source recruitment;
(iii) selection procedures, short-list and request for proposals (RFP), qualifying technical proposals, final
evaluation reports, and draft contracts when the estimated costs of the contract exceed US$ 50,000 for the
individual consultants and US$ 100,000 for firms; (iv) assignment of critical nature (as reasonably
demanded by the Bank) for individuals and firns estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000
- 60 -



respectively; and (v) contract amendment raising the values over US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000 for
individuals and firms respectively. All consultancy services not subjected to prior review will be subjected
to post review in accordance with Appendix 1 paragraph 4 of the Guidelines for the selection of
consultants. The NUSAF Executive Director will be briefed about the features of the new Guidelines
(January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999-with a copy provided to him), in particular in
regard to advertisement and public opening of bids. Training workshops on the selection of consultants
will be conducted prior to or during the launch workshop.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A. Procurement Methods
(US$M)
Community     Other
ICB     NCB      Participation  Methods*  N.B.F.*    Total
CDI                                                    66.3                  28.4      94.7
(IDA Share)                                          (66.3)                          (66.3)
VGS                                                    19.4                   2.3      21.6
(IDA Share)                                           (19.4)                         (19.4)
CRCM                                                    2.5                   0.3       2.8
(IDA Share)                                            (2.5)                          (2.5)
Goods                            1.6      0.5                      0.6        0.1       2.8
(IDA Share)                    (1.6)    (0.5)                    (0.6)                 (2. 7)
Consultants / TA / Workshop                                        4.7        0.8       5.5
(IDA Share)                                       _              (4.7)                 (4.7)
Operating Costs                =        =                          4.4        1.7       6.1
(IDA Share)                                                      (4.4)                 (4.4)
Total                            1.6      0.5          88.2        9.7       33.6     133.5
(IDA Share)                    (1.6)    (0.5)         (88.       (9.7)      (0.0)   (100.0)
Note: Numbers in Italics refer to the amount financed by IDA
Community participation includes services for CDI estimated at US$4.1 million, procurement using local
authority procedures that may be by force account estimated at US$ 2 million;
' Other Methods include Consultant Services, Shopping and Operating Costs, LAPSO,
'F N.B.F. includes contributions which will be made by communities such as bricks, labour or cash
contributions and govemments contributions (salaries, operation and maintenance, 10% of local costs and
10% of TA/consultant services (SDP))
- 61 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
;Selectioon.Method -      -l
Consultant Service'sI I-
Expenditure,Category.' QCBS'z' . . BS  SFB-    LCS       CQ      ther   :N.B.F.  Totai"Cost'
A. Firms                0.36    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.20    0.07     0.17     0.80
(0.36)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.20)   (0.07)  (0.00)    (0.63)
B. Individuals         0.31     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    3.73     0.68     4.72
(0.31)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (3.73)  (0.00)    (4.04)
Total  0.67     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.20    3.80     0.85     5.52
(0.67)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.20)   (3.80)  (0.00)    (4.67)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method       Contracts Subjects to Prior
Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior
Review (US$ million)
1. Community                                Community participation and  First five contracts under
Development Initiatives                      Minor Works Procurement  sub-projects 2/
(three quotations)
Multi-community sub-projects - First five contracts under
by local authorities using  sub-projects 2/
National Shopping
2. Vulnerable Group                          Community participation and  First five contracts under
Support                                      CSOs / NGOs / CBOs using  sub-projects 2/
local shopping
3. Community                                 Community participation  First five contracts under
reconciliation and                                                    sub-projects 2/
Conflict Management
4. Equipment and     Contract Value (Thresholds) Shopping, LAPSO      Post Review
Furniture
Supplies and Vehicles >=$25,000 & <$100,000  NCB, IAPSO             First five contracts
>=$ 100,000             ICB                       All contracts
- 62 -



<$20,000 (sub-project value) Shopping             Post Review
5. Consultant Services 1/ >=$20,000 & <$50,000
(sub-project value)
Firms             <$50,000                QCBS (CQ and other methods  None 3/
may be used, subject to prior
<$20,000 (sub-project value) approval from IDA)
>=$100,000              QCBS                      All contracts
<$5,000 (per activity value)
Individuals       <$50,000                Individual Qualifications  None 3/
<$25,000                 _        _       _
_  >=$50,000             Individual Qualifications  All contracts
].CB   = International Competitive Bidding
NCB    = National Competitive Bidding
IS     = International Shopping
NS     = National Shopping
JAPSO = United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office
QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
CQ     = Consultant Qualifications-Based Selection
1/ All terms of reference for consulting services, including those specified in the project manuals will be
subject to IDA prior review.
'/ Exemption from prior review does not apply to contrats under Force Account
3/ Exemptions from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts in case of single-source selection of
iurms and individuals,assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising the original value
above the respective thresholds.
Overall Risk Assessment: Considered High
F requency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six (6) months includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
Weaknesses:
Itecommendations:
I .    NUMU to finalize the Procurement Handbook at least before project effectiveness. The Handbook
should; (i) articulate the public procurement procedures and IDA Guidelines; (ii) categorically indicate
procurement methods, approval methods, major procurement steps such as advertisements, tender
submissions and opening, etc., (iii) prescribe procurement procedures as regards procurement of goods,
wvorks, and selection of consultants; (iv) specify or refer to Community Based Procurement Procedures; and
(v) be prepared in the context of the NUSAF Operational Manual.
,!.    NUMU to recruit the Procurement Specialist prior to Project Effectiveness. The Specialist would
report to the Director of Finance and Adminstration subject to review after the first six months.
Each district should assign a Supplies Officer to assist the NDTO on NUSAF procurement. The
- 63 -



district council should set aside a room to store the NUSAF supplies.
4.     In collaboration with IDA, NUSAF should organize a 2 - 3 day workshop on procurement
familiarization exclusively for district personnel (Tender Board secretary, treasurer, etc., supplies officer,
other planning staf) that will work on NUSAF procurement. The workshop is best held during or just
after launching of NUSAF.
- 64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
.:.Expenditure4Catego'ry ,, ,:  Amount in US$rmillion  ;- Financing Percentage
Subprojects                                78.80               90% of amounts disbursed
CGoods and Vehicles                         2.20          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants Services, Training and          3.50                   90% of expenditure
A.udit fees
Cperating Costs                             4.20                90% of local expenditure
Project Preparation Facility                1.50          Amount due persuant to Section 2.02 (b)
of the DCA
Unallocated                                 9.80
Total Project Costs                        100.00
Total                                      100.00
Tlhe project implementation agency will, on quarterly basis, submit Financial Monitoring Reports as
discussed during the project appraisal and Credit negotiations. In addition, NUMU will submit the required
supporting documentation for report-based disbursements, which will include:
(a) Source of supply information:
For contracts above the prior review threshold:
(i) the contractor/consultant's name, nationality, and Zip code, where applicable; and
(ii) the amount disbursed under each contract.
For contracts below the prior review thresholdc
(i) aggregate disbursements by country of supply;
(ii)Breakdown of aggregate disbursements by legal disbursement category; and
(iii) disbursement percentage.
(b) Special Account reconciliation statement;
(c) Special Account bank statement; and
(d) Forecast of expenditures for the following two FMR reporting periods.
AU disbursemens are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, Government will open a
special account in a commercial bank to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and
aclmiinistered by NUMU. Authorized allocation of the special account would be US$ 15,000,000. Deposits
into the Special Account will be based on submitted FMRs together with the report-based disbursement
- 65 -



supporting documentation as explained in the DCA and at the Credit negotiation. The initial deposit will
cover the first two quarters of the project life, that is, six month cash forecast of project expenditures.
NUMU will be responsible for submitting quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports to IDA. covering an
estimated six months of eligible expenditure financed by IDA. NUMU will be responsible for submitting
quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports.
Reports on ftmds utilization will be submitted periodically according to nature of subprojects, by the PIAs
(Districts and Communities) to NUMU, and as per each sub-project/activity and project category. The
reports will be accompanied by bank reconciliation and bank statements.
Under the report-based method of disbursement NUSAF will be required, within 45 days after the end of
the quarter to submit to IDA the Withdrawal Application and the FMRs together with the bank
reconciliation; and six-month cash forecast. (Refer to Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank
Financed Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers, DCA and, Disbursement Letter). For all expenditures
claimed under FMR, all supporting documents will be retained at NUMU for intemal and external audit
reviews including IDA mission review as agreed.
Project Account
In order to ensure timely provision of counterpart funds, GOU will establish a Project account at a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit of $250,000 Uganda shillings equivalent.
The account will be replenished on a quarterly basis (at begirining of each quarter) as indicated below:
(i)    Project Year 1: $285,000 USh equivalent
(ii)   Project Year 2: $490,000 USh equivalent
(iii)  Project Year 3: $712,000 USh equivalent
(iv)   Project Year 4: $712,000 USh equivalent
(v)    Project Year 5: $265,000 USh equivalent
Advance Accounts
Advance accounts will be maintained by the CSOs, NGOs, and CBOs for deposits from NUMU. The
funds in these accounts will be used to finance eligible expenditures under the Credit
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
iProject Schedule ' - -; --                       Planed                      Actual
rime taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             02/01/2000                   02/01/2000
Akppralsal mission departure                    03/18/2002                   03/18/2002
NegotIations                                    04/10/2002                   04/12/2002
l'anned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2002
F'repared by:
Uganda Social Action Fund Multi-sectoral Task Force, Office of the Prime Minister, GoU
F'reparation assistance:
PPF No. = approx. $1,025,000
Elank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Norbert Mugwagwa                  IDA Task Leader
Mungai Lenneiye                   Task Manager
John J. Oloya                     Task Manager
Mary Bitekerezo                   Social Development, Environment, Participatory Planning
Agnes Biribonwa                   IEC
Enid Kyomugisha/Vikki Taaka       Project Processing, Kampala Office
Victoria Fofanah                  Program Assistant, HQ
Yisgedullish Amde                 Resource Allocation / Targeting, Monitoring, Costing
PFrasad Mohan                     IEC, Training
Mona Gleditsch                    Enviroment, Gender
Jon Lauglo                        Training
Godwin Hlatshwayo                 Institutional Development
Modupe Adebowale                  Disbursement
Aberra Zerabruk/Edith Mwenda      Legal
Rogati Kayani                     Procurement
Harriet Nannyonjo                 Education
Peter Okwero                      Health
V'ictorio Ocaya                   Roads
Joseph Kizito                     Finance
MIichael Wong/Lucy Fye            Private Sector Development
Reinhard Woyteck                  Indigenous Knowledge-AFTQK
-67 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
UGANDA. Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
A. Project Implementation Plan
'The Project Implementation Plan is incorporated into the Institutional Development Handbook and the
Operational Manual.
13. Bank Staff Assessments
Second Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project (NURP ID) Identification Mission, March 21 - 31, 2000
Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF) - Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoir, May 28 to June 8,
I2001
Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF) - Appraisal Mission Aide Memoir, March 18 - 29, 2002
C. Other
Country Assistance Strategy, 20886-UG, October 24, 2000
IPoverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), summary report, 2001
Uganda Poverty Status Report, 2001
lJganda National Human Development Report, UNDP, 2000
lJganda Participatory Assessment Reports, Ministry of Finance, 2000
UJganda Poverty Assessment, Government of Uganda, 2000
National Service Delivery Survey, 2001
Annual Statistics, Ministry of Education 2001
Annual Statistics, Uganda Bureau of Statistics 2001
UJganda National Household Survey I, Uganda Bureau of Statistics, 2002
UJnited Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), Humanitarian Update,
September / October 2001
Malawi Social Action Fund, Project Appraisal Documents, Operational Manual, and Handbooks
T'anzania Social Action Fund, Project Appraisal Document, Operational Manual, and Handbooks
Community Needs Assessment (CNA) Reports, 2001
Cofinancing between the Netherlands and the World Bank, 1975 - 1996, ( Evaluation Report 1999),
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
R ights to Health and Nutrition Programme, Plan of Operations, Government of Uganda, (country
Programme 2001-2005), UNICEF
S,chool and Community Sanitation, Hygiene, and Water Programme, Plan of Operations ( Country
P rogramme 2001-2005), Govemrnment of Uganda, UNICEF
Ministry of Local Government Provisional Consultancy Report on Mapping Donor Support in the field of
D)ecentralization, (October 2000)
I)istrict Resource Endowment Profile Survey, Household Micro- Finance Survey (Vol. 1-V) Ministry of
finance Planning and Economic Development, April, 2000
Uganda Post-Conflict Reconstruction, Country Case Study (2000), The World Bank,
Northern Uganda Reconstruction Programme (NURP II) - District Profile Study I - II: COWI Consultants,
1999
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: Northern Uganda Social Action Fund
13-Jun-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frnm Revd
P085436       2002 2ND PHASE OF THE RD. DEVELOPMENT                 0.00     64.52                0.00      0.00     64.94      4.98       0.00
P069996       2002 PROGRAM                                          0.00     49.15                0.00      0.00     47.82       0.00      0.00
P002984       2002 Energy for Rural Transformaton Project           0.00     62.00                0.00      0.00     60.90       5.03      0.00
P074078       2002 UG FOURTH POWER PROJECT                          0.0       5.00                0.00      0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00
P050439       2001 Makeerem PUot Decentl Service Deivewy            0.00     48.50                0.00      0.00     43.54      26.09      0.00
P044695       2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTIUTY SECTOR REFORM             0.00     45.00                0.00      0.00     45.47       0.02      0.00
P070627       2001 Natonl Agric. Advisory Srvices Proj.             0.00     20.00                0.00      0.00     14.21      -0.56      0.00
P072482       2001 Regional Trade Fac - Ugarnda                     0.00     47.50                0.00      0.00     44.92      16.23      0.00
P073089       2001 HIVIAIDS Control Project                         0o00     22.00                0.00      0.00      19.88      8.55      0.00
P044679       2000 EMCSP II                                         0.00     34.04                0.00      0.00     25.09      17.48      0.00
P002992       2000 Second Economic and Fin. Mgmt Project            0.00     80.90                0.00      0.00     45.18     -29.12      0.00
P059223       1999 LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                           0.00     22.40                0.00      0.00      12.07     13.08      0.00
P002941       1999 NAKIVU0 CHAKNNEL REH                             0.00     12.40                2.00      0.00      0.95      -0.73     -1.49
P059127       1999 ICB-PAMSU                                        0.00     20.00                0.00      0.00      1777       6.79      0.00
P002970       1999 AGRIC.RES & TRNG. 11                             000      90.98                0.00      0.00     70.55      28.66      3.43
P057007       1998 ROADSDEVTPROGRAM                                 0.00     27.f0                0.00      16.98      5.55     24.14      0.51
P040551       1998 EL NINO EMERG RD REP                             0.00     34.00                000       0.00       9.53      1.64      0.00
P049543       1998 NUTRiT.CHILD DEV                                0o00      30.00                0.00      0.00      18.46     20.45      1.16
P046836       1997 ROAD SECTIINST.SUPP                              0.00     12.10                0.00      0.00       1.39      1.81      0.00
P048870       1997 LakeVictoria Env.                                0.00      9.80                9.60      0.00       2.22      2.72      0.00
P035634       1998 LAKE ViCTORiA ENV.                               0.00     12.30                0.00      218        1.18      4.63      1.83
P002976       1995 PRiV. SECTOR COMPETi                             0.00     36.40                0.00      0.00       0.79      3.22      0.00
P002971       1995 INST. CAPACITYBLDG                              0.00     45.00                0.00      0.00       0.33      2.53      0.00
P0029i3       1994 DISTRICTHEALTH                                   0.0      50.00                0.00      0.00       0.8       1.50      0.00
P002957       19i4 SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                                  0.00     42.30                0.00      0.00       1.81      2.76      0.00
SMALL TOWNS WATER
Total:       0.00     929.69              11.80      19.16     580.20     159.88      5.45
- 69 -



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
1;Y Approval       Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
11994              AEF Skyblue                  0.51    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.51    0.00     0.00   0.00
K998               AEF White Nile               0.22    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1.999              AEF Wstem Hgh                0.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00            CelTel Uganda                2.50    0.70    0.00   0.00    2.50    0.70     0.00   0.00
(1/84/92           DFCU                         0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.60     0.00    0.00
1993               Jubilee                      0.00    0.10    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.10     0.00   0.00
1996               Kasese Cobalt                8.00    3.60    0.00    0.00   8.00    3.60     0.00   0.00
1998               Tilda Rice                   1.54    0.00    0.00   0.00     1.54   0.00     0.00   0.00
1983               Uganda Sugar                 4.02    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.02    0.00     0.00   0.00
1996               AEF Agro Mgmt                0.60    0.40    0.00   0.00    0.55    0.40     0.00   0.00
1992               AEF Clovergem                0.84    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.84    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               AEF Conrad Plaza             0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.88    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEF Exec. Invmnt             0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.79    0.00     0.00   0.00
1999               AEF Gomba                    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001               AEF Kabojja                  0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33   0.00     0.00    0.00
AEF Kiwa nI                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ladoto                   0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.80    0.00     0.00   0.00
2000               AEF LongFreight              0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Makss                    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
2002               AEF Mosa Court               0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40   0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Nile Roses               0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.16    0.00     0.00   0.00
1993               AEF Rainbow                  0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.79    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               AEFRwenzori                  0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.17    0.00     0.00   0.00
1993
Total Portfolio:       26.60    5.40    0.00    0.00   23.90    5.40    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002              Bujagali                        60.00     0.00     0.00     40.00
Total Pending Commitment:      60.00     0.00      0.00    40.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA. Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Uganda     Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                     22.2      659     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Aflas method, US$)                   300      480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     6.8      313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (%)                                       3.0       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                      2.7       2.6      2.4      GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
MOst recent estimate (latest year available, 1994400)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)  35
Urban population (% of total population)              13       34        32
Life expectancy at birth (veers)                     42        47        59
Infant mortality (par 1.000 live births)             97        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            26                             Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (X of populatIon)  52        55       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  38       38        38
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-ape population)  122     78        96                 Uganda
Male                                               129       85       102            --- Low-income group
Female                                             114       71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos-
GDP (US$ billions)                                   4.3       6.4       6.2
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                       12.7      16.4      18.1                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    7.2      11.3      10.1
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                           0.6       4.7       2.6
Gross national savings/GDP                           0.6      10.3      10.6
Current account balance/GDP                         -10.0    -11.6     -13.9     DomesUc                    I   sm
Interest pavments/GDP                                          0.6       0.7    savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                      51.2      63.7      59.1
Total debt service/exports                          80.2      23.7      25.5
Present value of debVGDP                                      27.3      15.9
Present value of debtlexports                                225.3     146.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.1     7.1      7.5       4.4       63                  Uganda
GDP per capita                      1.3     3.9      4.5       1.1       3.8             --   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.0    15.4     31.3      -0.7       6 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP ((%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      ro
Aariculture                                         56.6      44.4      42.5
Industry                                            11.1     `17.8      19.1 
Manufacturing                                       5.7       8.7      9.1     20
Services                                            32.4      37.8      38.4     os _
Private consumption                                 91.9      85.4      88.9   -20      95   9          Oa   99   oo
General government consumption                       7.5       9.9      10.5                   GDI       OGDP
Imports of goods and services                       19.4      23.1      25.6
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                 3.3      3.7       6.9       4.1    s
Industrv                                    6.8     12.3       9.3       6.5    *s
Manufacturing                              4.8     13.6      11.7      1.9
Services                                    3.9      7.9       7.2       5.3     0
Private consumption                         3.9      7.5      17.3       0.9      l           a   97         99   Do
General govemment consumption               1.7      6.4      -4.5       4.6   -20
Gross domestic Investment                   11.2    10.1      14.1      30.5           -Exports       _   Imports
Imports of goods and services               5.9     13.2      47.8       6.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates. Uganda data are In fiscal year: 1999 refers to 1998/99; 2000 refers to 1999100.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the countrv (In bold) compared with Its Income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-71-



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1990      1999      2000     Inthtion (%)
Domestic pbces
(r change)                                                                       15,
Consumer prices                                      45.5 0.2 6.3 10 .
Implicit GDP deftlator                               44.4       4.2      3.0
Government flnance
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                               o      o7                BB    99    0
Current revenue                                       6.8      10.9     10.8    -6
Current budget balance                               -0.3       0.9      0.4                  GDP ds4ator
Overall surplus/defcidt                              4.9       -5.9     .9.0            -GDPIdettator      e   CPt
TRADE
(USS millions)                                      1990      1999      2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                  210       549       439     2.000
Coffee                                              159       307      187
Cotton                                                ..       11       23     1.500
rotal Imports (cd)                                   584      1,392    1,513     1.000
Food
Fuel and energy                                      78       108      143      sW
Capital goods                                         ..       ..        ..       0
lExport price Index (1995=100)                        56         67       58           94   os   go   S7   Oa  0S   00
Import pice Index (1995=100)                          83        103      104                *Exports     *tmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             67         65       56
I3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
t US$ millions)                                     1990      1m       2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
lExports of goods and services                       246       726       626      0
Imports of goods and services                        676      1,834    1 985
Resource balance                                    -430     -1,107    -1 359
Net Income                                            -77       -14      -15
Net current transfers                                 78        375      513        1111111
Current account balance                              -429      -746     -861     -10
Financing items (net)                                419       780       8468
Changes Innet reserves                                10        -33       15 i   1
AMemo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                35        748      719
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)                     319.6    1,362.0  1,511.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1990      1999      2000
(KJS$ millions)                                                                  ComposIon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                2.202     4,078    3,668
IBRD                                                21         0         0                 F:21 G:117
IDA                                                805      2,043    2,115            E:563
Total debt service                                   197        184      172
IBRD                                                 7         0         0
IDA                                                  6         27       29
Composition of net resource flows                                                    D: 516
Officialgrants                                     153       277       312                                   s:2115
Offkcal aceditors                                    ..       195      169
Prlvate creditors                                    0         4        11            C: 316
Foreign direct Investment                            6       230       248
vlorid Bank program
CommItments                                        227        165      107     A-IBRD                     E-Bflateral
Disbursements                                      165        132      190     B-IDA     D-Othermultdlstarl  F-PrIvate
Principal npayments                                  6 .       13       14     C-IMF                      G - Shor-erm
Net flows                                          159       119       176
Interest payments                                    7        14        15
Net transfers                                      152       104       161
Development Economics                                                                                             9/13301
- 72 -



Additional Annex 11 :Summary of Project Workplan
UGANDA: Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
Duraln    Sta=t Finish             2, 2f002    Qtr 3, 2002    Qtr 4, 2002
ID  Task Name.J Duraton                            SJart    Finish  Ma             Jun  Jul Aug NSep     t   Nov |Dec
1   PPF Approval and opening of special acc  I day? Thu 3/4/02f Thu. 14102
2i   TORis and lo-b descrHption prepared and; f  day7 T-hu ifik isf-f hu knt3m
"T   NUMU itart.up Activities                1 day7  F1ff 11 i  f 11/'Ow
4   Sensitization and mobilization of District  I day' Mon 4/1 sA/. Mon 4/15/0
_5_ iEC itart Up activiies                  ii3days  Tue4f3. T-hu iiO.                            m
....   .. oi n p m v Ie .ld                  y .   ........... . .. 
6   Pretesting (trailblazing) of sub-projects  i day  Tfue 4/o30/0  Tue4/30/0
7]      NUMU nitial Distict activities  j   Iday?  Tue4 1lr Tue4fiOfO;4*
PRA teams start fieid work       i day  Tue 4/30oi Tue 4/3O10    I
Communitysub-projectactivityl    icday'  ue4/30T Tue4I3QOs
Dlstrict Activities for Project Ap  1d Iad  Tue4/A3W-  Tue 4/r30/0W 
11  Consultant Services                   1fty. iio. it5W0I M-onsfsW2_                               OPM,MTF
.     Di Component Handboo an.   P         i 66d....Tue 41_  .ue iiii .  _M MTF
13  Vulnerable Groups Support Handbook (2  66 daa2  Tue 4/30102 Tue 7/30W0
14  community FReconcililation & Conflict Mn! 1 668 dopel Tue 4/30/02. Tue 7/30/02 
15  Training Needs Assessment 8 Plan (PRA 1 I 08 dai Tue 413f0ir Tue 9/24/2  __
i6  I.E.C Needs Assessment & strategy desiI irdai  TUe i3o ii2 jue7/30/02    __
17  Formation of Listnership clubs for Peace! 87i dael Tus 4/30/02 Wed i8/282  f
i8  Financiai Management Handbook (20 day  61i dayil Tue 43O/3/| Tuw 7//
. . . ~~~~I                     .   - .. 
19  Sub-project Tracking System (Specificat; 966 dayWi Tue 4n3o0;2 Tue /10f
20  MIS and M&E Guldeilnes (20 days)     ! 70 dayttl Tue 4/30/; Tue 8l13/
i21  An Environmentai checkiist (15idays)  4b day6/ Tiue 4/30/1  Tueu. 7/2o0
22   Baseline UNS (5idaysi                4ffdays  Tuea4130fO;1 Tuf2O |/2/
23  Procurement Handbook and Plan (20 dal  71 daysi Tue 4/i0/02  Tue /fW             -
24  Scope of Work for Study on Dev;t Stratejl i 11i dyP. Tue 4/i30/0| Tuei-it  __  _   _   _   _   _
25  NUSAF Operational Plan 8 Adminstratioi  66 dayel7 Tue 4no3; Tue 7/f3;0/0
26  Technical Designs                    j66 adysI Tue aU30/02= Tue 0 e                   w
F7 iunctionali Literacyjvocational Training j   dp-u 4ie4i fue 7130id,;
28  Board Approval                          I day? i ThuWSM/Of| Thu Sl/  ff                    |
|29  Launch workshop                         iy    Thu iy 15/ 0  Tfhu 83    i                  I
' 30- Effectiveness                        78 depye  Fd 8/li30/  Tue 12117/0 |
[ 31 |CDi implemenbtion                                          - t3s2da  Fdeo1 Mon  - h_
52  Vulnerable Groups                     852dye   Pd 8/30/0 Mon 2/28/Oa,
33  Community Reconciliation and conflict hi i dayei  Fr8/30i0l1 'Mon i28/8                                 _-
34 jnstitutional Development            !652 day- Fr -rfo;   .                                               - 2a--!
35  MIS/M&EiTrainingIliC                   6s2days  Fri r   Mon2/M
36l Implementation review                4 606 days1 Mon 11i4/2 Mon 2/28OaS  I
- 73 -



Additional Annex 12: Community Needs Assessment
UGANDA: Northem Uganda Social Action Fund
Community Needs Assessment Objective:
A CNA, using participatory rural appraisal/action (PRA) approaches was carried out in the five
sub-regions of the North (Acholi, Karamoja, Lango, Soroti and West Nile) in order to bring out the views,
perceptions and aspirations of the communities in the North regarding: (a) community ability to identify
and prioritize needs and plan to address them; (b) community knowledge of poverty and vulnerability; (c)
rommunity organization and its potential to contribute to better identify, plan, implement and manage
community sub-projects in a sustainable manner; (d) willingness to contribute, community capacity and
:kills levels; (e) community perceptions of external institutions; and (f) community access to information.
,Findings by Question
Community ability to identify needs and prioritize: Communities are able to identify and prioritize their
development needs; they know what they want. They also expressed the desire to manage resources and
interventions that address their development needs. Communities are also quite aware of their potentials
and limitations. CAP in West Nile developed sufficient community capacity and enabled them to prepare
action plans which district and sub-county planners should be tapping into. However, CNA findings
indicate a reluctance by LAs to utilize both the plans and the community facilitation capacity built.
Involvement of LAs in the sub-project cycle therefore guarantees sustainability of both the process and the
subprojects.
Knowledge of poverty and vulnerability: The communities are aware of poverty and know who are the
poorest/vulnerable in their communities and why they are in the said state. Communities also know what it
tikes to improve one's well being, i.e. how the very poor can be moved from abject poverty through
community capacity building - investing in social capital development, and the factors that characterize the
poor and the poorest/most vulnerable. They also know the conditions and status of their social services,
how accessible the social services are and which institutions/organizations provide better services.
lhe findings indicate that most community respondents do consider that most social services are: (a) still
poorly accessible, particularly by the very poor; (b) of inadequate quality and; (c) few in terms of physical
fiacilities, distant from the communities and are ill-equipped and understaffed. In service delivery, the
n spondents noted that NGOs have done a commendable job in ameliorating the problem. This was
particularly noted by the consultants who worked in the insecure areas especially in Acholi region, where
government has continuously relied on CSOs because of their community-based activities. In Acholi
sub-region, the war has distorted both the definitions and perceptions of poverty. The result has been a
general view that everybody is poor. However "..in the course of well being ranking exercises, the poor
were singled out mainly in relation to their material possession at the household level". The following
characteristics were commonly cited as associated with being poor: elderly, HIV/AIDS affected and living
with AIDS, internally displaced, disabled, widows and widowers, orphans, youth, homeless, girls with
children, etc.
Community organization: Community organizations exist all across the region (women groups, youth
groups, water management committees, school management committees, CBOs and other self-help
initiatives) with the potential and willingness to shoulder their development obligations. In addition,
- 74 -



organizational capacities (in group management, planning, financial management, procurement,
record-keeping) are still low but the community potential and willingness to improve upon them is
compelling. Yes, communities are organized along both modem and traditional lines (formal and informal)
with clear purposes and objectives although not necessarily in a written form. The study however observed
that informal institutions, which have critical role in instilling values, are getting extinct. In Acholi, for
instance, the Study concludes that "..social norms, culture and traditions that held the Acholi have been
falling apart in the last 15 years.however, a number of people interviewed suggested that strengthening
the traditional institutions (clans and elders) will form a strong building block for the peace building
(efforts)". In Karamoja, the LC system is seen as favoring the few literate and undermining the authority
of the elders, yet, only by going through the latter can development messages get to the people. The elders
are the custodians of community cohesion, their blessing is needed for any intervention to succeed, and they
are not necessarily obstructive as long as they are respected and informed first.
In Teso the findings show that Communities have come together to promote their own survival through
'individual commitment, interest and hard work' and to be independent of extemal influence. Whereas
membership is open, factors such as age and socio-economic background influence association. Group'
organizational and management capacity has been influenced by interaction with extemal institutions, the
higher the level of association the higher the capacity. Groups include: funeral/burial, women labor and
revolving funds, cattle and farmer groups, and youth. Extemal groups mainly NGOs, specific programs,
church groups most of which provide skills training. Local Government structures exist at village and
parish levels and provide liaison and linkages with NGOs, resolve conflicts, channel information as well as
mobilize communities to: repair roads, protect water sources, construct and repair schools, etc. LCs have
high drop-out rates, are considered corrupt, have low capacity, etc. At sub-county level, councils and
committees do not meet regularly, they lack funds and tend to be non-participatory. Community's main
complaint is that they are not involved in making decisions on priorities, LCs at different levels decide
without consulting those below them be they communities or other LC levels. The consequence is that LCs
are viewed negatively by the people who see them as distant and non-responsive as well as corrupt and
non-transparent in their dealings.
Community perceptions of local NGOs and CSOs are mixed, but they tend to identify with local ones such
as churches. There is a general feeling of unfulfilled expectations by those NGOs that left without
following up on the issues raised and mistrust of extemal institutions.
Willingness to contribute, community capacity and skills levels: Community participation has generally
been passive in most parts of the region. The study reported that in case of West Nile, CAP West Nile
introduced active participation at least in more than 293 communities (43% of population), but, this is
declining with local government supported programs e.g., DDP. Community participation also was found
to vary with the nature of livelihood, organization capacity and relationship with other development
agencies. The study reported that pastoralists are willing to participate in development processes.
However, the nature of their participation should better be defined in the context of their livelihood.
Similarly, earlier development workers have also tied the participation of pastoralists to allowances to
attending meetings.
In general all communities have indicated commitment and wilingness to contribute to the development of
their areas. This is tied to traditional practices and values, which still exist and can be brought out with
good facilitation. The report concluded that community contributions are evident in all the districts visited
and well reported in NGO supported projects as well as self-help projects. In Lango sub-region, for
instance, traditional systems have been very instrumental in mobilizing communities to promote
participation for physical implementation of community activities, e.g. Acholi, comnmunities have been
- 75 -



contributing and therefore are willing to contribute especially materials for school construction. In Teso,
communities contribute materials and labor but not much by way of cash, generally passive participation.
In Lango, communities have a history of local efforts to address local problems. Aduku urban community
contributes towards primary school expansion, Wansolo community opened up a 27 kilometer road while
Action Aid assisted Akokoro sub-county to open up roads too.
Communities reported that there were residual skills among villagers, e.g. in Acholi traditional birth
attendants and healers, bicycle repairs, as well as in areas such as record keeping for meetings and financial
transactions, local artisans in masonry, carpentry, tailoring, etc. as well as competencies in negotiating,
procuring and contracting. In CAP areas, West Nile, on the job training was provided to pump mechanics
mnd construction workers.
Community perceptions of external institutions: Community perception about the local governments
lLGs) system's ability to deliver services to them is, unfortunately, negative. LGs, especially at levels
above the village, are considered by the communities as non-responsive to their needs; non-participatory in
lheir planning methods; not transparent in resource management and corrupt at worst. Even where the
community perception about the LGs is positive (Karamoja and West Nile), it is only the village level LGs,
and even these do not escape accusations of corruption and lack of transparency in resource management.
The favorable perception at this level in the two regions is because of their closeness to the communities
and their ability to resolve conflicts amongst the community members. In Karamoja, it is largely because
the village LGs are made up of the few literate (actually semi illiterate) residents.
On the other hand, the community perception about NGOs/CBOs is generally positive; most of them
involve the communities in the planning and management of the services that they deliver to the
communities, and most importantly, they deliver what they promise the communities. The communities
view their partnership with these agencies as generally productive, even in communities where the village
LGs are also perceived favorably. Communities themselves are willing to work through their own
Cirganizations/groups to deliver development services to themselves, and the potential is great and not
without precedent; there are organizations (women groups, youth groups, water management committees,
school management committees, CBOs and other self-help initiatives) already doing this. Community
participation (including contributions too) in existing programs is already great in those implemented by
local NGOs/CBOs, but rather scanty in those by Kampala run International NGOS and government.
Communities in West Nile expressed concern that they are left out of the decision making process by the
district and sub-counties regarding the construction of schools under the School Facilities Grant (SFG).
Centrally determined norms and standards may not apply to communities in conflict areas and where
displacement has been significant, hence the need to involve communities in both locating, design and
actual construction of school facilities including classrooms, teachers houses, latrines, water sources and
nrbbish disposal dumps.
Access to information: There exists organizations and sources of information through which development
messages can reach the communities. They include, but are not limited to, village meetings, local FM
siations and radios, newspapers, posters and traditional sources like drums, homs, songs drama and clan
nieetings. These can easily be harnessed to develop an IEC strategy for NUSAF.
C'onclusions and Recommendations
* Involve all stakeholders in planning especially the grassroots levels, i.e. build partnerships and support
CBOs, CSOs, private sector, individuals and households, as well as local govermment extension staff.
* Special attention should be given to vulnerable groups and specific programs developed to address the
- 76 -



plight of the disadvantaged
*   Reduction of the impact of conflict and resolution of the conflict critical for poverty reduction; strong
submission that the war is "useless and dangerous" and should end (Acholi p.84) and use of every group
activity as an opportunity for peace buildihg
*   NUSAF should improve the capacity and make use of existing, tested and trusted community structures as
entry points, and NGOs, CSOs and CBOs can be effective partners.
*   Work with local government within the decentralization context and SWAPs, especially to improve
management infornation production and flow to communities.
*   Community sensitization through provision of (a) information to communities as a means to promoting
development as well as (b) functional literacy classes; and
*   The central role played by traditional leaders in some districts should be acknowledged through making
them the first point in mobilizing communities for information dissemination, etc.
- 77 -



ANNEX 13
1'elepliones: 23470019 (10 Lines) lKampala  St;9t           Ministry of Finance, Planning
*elephones: 234700/9 (10 LInes) Kampuha      and Economic Development
Faxc 230163                                                 Finance Headquarter5 Building
Talegrame: FINSEC'                                          Plot 2 -12 Appollo Kaggwa Rd.
E-maI: finance@lmul.coan                                   P.O. Box 8147
TIE REPUOUC OF UGANDA    Kampala
In any correspondence on  ALD 141/205112                    Uganda
thi subject please quote No.
15"' May 2002
Mr. James W. Adams
World Bank Country Director
Uganda, Kampala
Dear Mr. Adams,
Re: UGANDA; LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY FOR THE NORTHERN
UGANDA SOCIAL ACTION FUND (NUSAF) PROJECT
Introduction
The Govemment of Uganda hereby submits a request for a World Bank (IDA)
credit to facilitate the implementation of Northern Uganda Social Action Fund
(NUSAF) Project. The overall objective of the project is to empower communities
in Northem Uganda (18 districts located in the North and East) by enhancing
their capacity to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs within
their own value system. It will implement sustainable development initiatives that
improve socio-economic services and opportunities, thereby contributing to
improved. livelihcods by placing money in the hands of the communities.
Specifically NUSAF will: will strengthen community patticipation, leadership
development and resource mobilization, improve quality and access to social
services and community-initiated infrastructure, support peace building and
conflict management though local institutions and civil society organization
(CSO), provide and facilitate support to vulnerable groups, especially the youth
and women affected by conflict and provide institutional support to build capacity
to manage the project, disseminate information, monitor and evaluate activities
as well as strengthen the local govemment institutions that provide technical
support to the project.
General Policy Framework
The Government of Uganda achieved over the last decade high levels of
economic growth and macro-economic stability, mainly as a result of strict
implementation of economic reforms and structural adjustment policies. As a
result of these achievements the percentage of the population living below
poverty situations in the country have shown very strong locational and regional
- 78 -



biases. Studies have revealed that rural areas are substantially poorer than
urban areas both in economic and social terms. More specifically, the north
followed by the east are the poorest areas of Uganda, both in terms of economic
development as well as in the supply of public social services. The factors
responsible for this disparity are prolonged civil unrest and armed conflict in most
parts of the North, high population growth rate, effects of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, poor institutional development and service delivery in both
infrastructure and social services, environmental pressures and so on. As a
result, poverty in the North have actually risen as to the level of 66% in 2000.
To address this inequality, Government of Uganda implemented the Northem
Uganda Reconstruction Project from 1992 to 1997 in the then 14 (now 18)
districts in Northem Uganda. This was an emergency project intended to restore
the basic social economic infrastructure and revive economic activities in the
north after the war in 1992. The project was implemented in a post conflict
situation and was therefore constrained ended by persistent disruptions delaying
implementation of some sub-projects. However, the project realised a number of
achievements. At the project closure, an evaluation rated it satisfactory and
recommended that follow up operations should focus on community based
interventions given the prevailing situation of insecurity and the consequent high
levels of poverty that armed conflict, and other factors created in the North. It
also recommended that any future interventions in the North.  It also
recommended that any future interventions in the North should have a
decentralised management and involve the beneficiaries at all stages of planning
and management.
After realizing the achievements in paragraph 2 above, it then became imperative
that the focus of government changes to ensure that successes enlisted above
are transformed into improved living standards and better well being for the
people. Government therefore adopted poverty reduction as the fundamental
objective of its development.
Government Strategies to address Poverty
Before the preparation of the Poverty Eradication Action (PEAP), which is
Government's main medium term planning document, with a central objective of
poverty eradication, poverty was dealt with using relief and rehabilitation
programmes. This was followed by the programme for Alleviation of Poverty and
Social Costs of Adjustment (SDA) studies, which formed a background to the
PEAP 1997.
In 1997 not only was the first edition of the PEAP produced and implemented but
also budgetary discipline was being expanded beyond the cash budget, which
existed from 1992/93 to 1996/97. The sectors with the greatest impact on
poverty eradication received priority in the budget. In this process, Government
of Uganda developed a Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), a
process.
- 79 -



One of the areas of priority identified in the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) is to promote broad-based growth that eradicates poverty.
This is achieved through allocating resources to areas that impact directly in
reduction of poverty, namely; major and minor feeder roads to lower transport
cost and extend the market, especially for small holders. The Education Strategy
Investment Plan (ESIP) to raise human skills levels, improvement in health
service delivery and govemance and accountability and so on.
In order to promote broad-based equitable growth and further contribute to
poverty reduction, a great part of the development budget and the entire Poverty
Action Fund (PAF) are allocated to those sectors and activities with the greatest
impact on poverty eradication namely; roads with emphasis on feeder roads,
education with emphasis Universal Primary Education (UPE), Primary Health
Care, provision of clean water and environmental sanitation, provision of
agriculture extension services to raise productivity for the poor, the majority of
whom are small holders cultivating 0.5-2.0 hectares of land p.a. per household,
economic functions most relevant to poverty eradication (water, lands and
environmental protection excluding roads, district water conditional grants, district
development plans) and National Security.
Government prioritization of Poverty Programmes
Govemment priorities are therefore identified in the four objectives/pillars of the
PEAP namely; fast and sustainable economic growth and structural
transformation (since it is a necessary condition for poverty reduction),
govemance   and   security,  peace,  democratization,  transparency  and
accountability, justice and order. Actions that directly enhance the ability of the
poor to increase their incomes, Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA),
Uganda Coffee Development Authority (UCDA), Cotton National Agricultural
Research Organization (NARO), USP, valley dams and farm power and
machinery roads, rural financial services and electrification, actions that enhance
the quality of life, health, safe water, sanitation and education, sustainable
environmental management through afforestation.
The NUSAF project will directly address the last two objectives of the PEAP by
supporting and empowering communities to plan for, implement and manage
community assets and infrastructure and by supporting vulnerable groups
including the youth through skills, training and subsequent employment. Through
supporting community reconciliation initiatives and traditional leadership and
mechanisms for conflict management, the project build social cohesion and
enhance the creation of social capital for sustainable development.
- 80 -



The contribution of NUSAF to Social Capital Formation
The Traditional community safety community safety-net systems and social fabric
of the people of the North has been greatly disrupted and weakened by the
armed conflict, displacements and other factors that affected the North in the last
two decades. As a result there is a general feeling of dissatisfaction and
hopelessness among the people many of whom have lost the motivation and
confidence let alone the energy to play roles in the development process. In this
respect NUSAF through the CRCM and the VGs components will support social
capital formation and the creation community cohesion i.e empowerment of
communities in transition to peace. The investments in CRCM and VGs will
improve the livelihoods of the conflict affected and thus promote social
development and genuine participation.
Social Sector Policies
NUSAF will initiate and support national policies and programmes within the
context of the following national policies.
The Poverty Eradication Strateav and Plan of Action which implements a three
Year strategy of poverty eradication consisting of measures to increase incomes
of the poor, measures to improve leadership development and community
reconciliation and measures to improve quality of life of the poor through
provision of basic social human capital development strategies.  Besides
increasing the provision and access to social services, the project will raise
incomes among families by enhancing communication and marketing of goods,
and training and supporting the employment of vulnerable persons especially the
youth.
The National Decentralisation Policy and Framework  which aims at the
devolution of responsibility to district, sub-counties and communities as a means
of improving  performance, financial transparency  and  accountability,
effectiveness and sustainability. Under the policy, the private sector, including
non-govemment organization and communities themselves are playing an
increasing role in the provision of social services. In the context of development
in Northern Uganda, NUSAF's strategy is to promote the attainment of the goal of
community empowerment to enhance effective poverty reduction under
decentralised development. Local Govemments will adopt and develop criteria
for selecting benefiting sub-counties and parishes under NUSAF based on
poverty indices. NUSAF will facilitate the effective articulation of national, district,
and community levels in terms of implementing the generally agreed broad
mandates of these levels through the use of a sub-project cycle and in that way
deepen the decentralization process.
- 81 -



The Gender Policy the NUSAF project processes to provide a coherent set of
development strategies and outcomes for social transformation.  These
strategies will ensure that the disadvantaged groups, which are a majority in the
North, are given equal opportunities, supported to get out of their disadvantaged
situation and empowered to participate in mainstream  development.  By
focussing on the disadvantaged, the project supplements the Social
Development Sector Strategic Investment plan whose preparation is underway in
the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development.
The Plan for Modemization of Agriculture (PMA) NUSAF will build and
rehabilitation of infrastructure and supporting improvements in ability of the youth
and other vulnerable groups to earn incomes from skill jobs. In this way it will
complement the PMA and NAADS which basically support interventions that
focus on strengthening institutions that should be complemented with innovative
approaches that focus on simulating community demand and farmer response
such as PMA, NAADS.
The National Food and Nutrition Policy (NENP) which addressed food and
nutrition as a major national resource for human development and economic
growth, and as part of the political advocacy for a sustainable macro economic
policy. The NUSAF project will meet the objectives this policy by providing
targeted support to income generating and nutrition provision activities of the
disadvantaged groups such as female headed household, orphans, persons
infected and affected by HIF/AIDS, the aged and so on.
The National Education Policy which is geared toward improving accessibility,
equity, quatity and relevance of education with special focus on universalization
of primary teachers houses, teaching materials, facilities such as laboratories,
sports and recreational facilities, tanks for drinking water, sanitary facilities and
latrines. These facilities will not only attract more children and teachers to
schools in rural areas but also improve the quality and standards of primary and
secondary education.
The National Health Policy which is centred on Primary Health Care (PHC)
approach and accords priority in resource allocation to preventive services with
emphasis on community participation and involvement in improving their own
health.  In line with this policy, the project will build community health
infrastructure and provide water tanks in health centres and schools. In addition,
latrines will be built at health units and schools to improve the sanitary conditions
in the project area.
In implementing the above poverty eradication and social sector policies and
translating them into programmes, govemment has received support from
several development partners, including UNICEF, UNDP, UNFP, World Bank,
- 82 -



WHO, IFAD, DANIDA, CIDA, USAID, ODA, NORAD, GTZ, SCF (UK), EU and
other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
Sub-sectoral policies to be Implemented within the project time
The Acholiland Programme this is a programme financed by the European Union
focussing on the social and economic development of the districts of Gulu and
Kitgumn in Northern Uganda by injecting capital development fund in the local
govemment systems to implement projects prioritised by communities and lower
level local governments and enhancing the communities' ability to articulate their
needs and build capacity of lower local govemments to provide better quality
services to the communities. NUSAF aims to'facilitate Local Governments
manage expectations through good training of community facilitators by
competitively selected agencies. NUSAF has supported ongoing consultations
through a working group to produce a standard tool of open-ended Participatory
Rural Action (PRA) under the leadership of the Ministry of Local Govemment.
This lower Government Participatory Planning Framework' will assist
communities articulate and analyze development issues in the context of their
situations, and then identify, proritize, and programme interventions needed to
increase access to services. The PRA tool will be used by NUSAF and Local
Government to integrate community empowerment issues including policies into
bottom-up planning approaches being promoted -by the Ministry of Local
Govemment. In addition, by direct financing communities, NUSAF tends to
develop and promote efficiency in community level investment for Local
Governments to emulate.
The Restocking Project: As a result of the conflict and cattle rustling that went
on in the Northern and Eastern Districts, the people lost their cattle, their main
means of their livelihoods. Govemment sought to restore the peoples' livelihood
a restocking project, implemented by the Office of the Prime Minister. The
project is a long-term measure to enable the people in the areas concemed to
once again restore their economic base and reduce poverty by owning livestock
(e.g cattle, donkey, goats, sheep etc), and other livestock related infrastructure
(e.g. ox-plough and relevant implements, animal health products, animal
breeding inputs). NUSAF will support targeted efforts to tackle food insecurity
and increase earning opportunities for the vulnerable groups such as female
headed households, widows, through income generating activities and skill
training.
The School Roofina Grant Given the historical background of the North
described above, it is obvious that the education like other sectors suffered
setbacks. The north scores poorest in terms of access and provision of primary
education.  Government therefore accessed a grant from the Japanese
Government to provide school roofing iron sheets, ridges and nails for the
construction and rehabilitation of schools. NUSAF will complement this project
- 83 -



by building teachers houses, water tanks, latrines, provision of desks, books and
laboratory equipment.
The Disaster Management Policy  The Department of Disaster Preparedness
and Refugees in Office of the Prime Minister is at the moment working with UN
agencies (WFP, UNHCR, UNICEF etc) to design a pacKage for the resettling of
the over 800.000 displaced persons living in "protected camps" in the project
area. NUSAF will enhance this process by providing targeted relevant skill
training to the youth that were affected by the armed conflict in one way or
another In addition, the principles of SAF will respond to the social values of the
people and thereby enhance the capacity of the vulnerable to participate in
directly funded local development projects through their own directly-elected
leadership.
Build the knowledge and skills of communities
The NUSAF project will mobilize communities to be able to plan for themselves
and to develop scenarios, which they can use for the betterment of their own
lives. NUSAF aims to facilitate Local Govemments manage expectations
through good training of community facilitators by competitively selected
agencies and conducting extended PRA tool being developed will assist
communities articulate and analyze development issues in the context of their
situations, so that they can identify, prioritize, and plan interventions needed to
increase access to services. The extended PRA tool will be used by NUSAF and
Local Govemment to integrate community empowerment issues including
policies into bottom up planning approaches being promoted by the Ministry of
Local Government.
Increase awareness of communities' roles and rights
The NUSAF project will support sensitization and advocacy activities carried out
by he Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development
Collaboration between Government and Non-government entities
Given the nature of the activities, the NUSAF project will be implemented at the
grassroots levels by local NGOs and community based organizations (CBOs)
including women's groups, saving groups and parents' groups. NGOs and other
agencies that will be contracted to provide technical assistance and capacity
building will support these organizations. At the district level, lead NGO will be
selected through a competitive bidding process to take responsibility of
implementing the project in the district. The lead NGO will identify other small
NGOs in sub-counties with which it will work to implement the project at the
district level.
- 84 -



Institutional Structure for project management
The government through OPM established a multi-sectoral Task Force (MSTF)
which consists of representatives of Permanent Secretaries of various ministries
to lead the preparation process. The Permanent Secretary Office of the Prime
Minister chairs MSTF. A national steering committee chaired by the PS/OPM will
provide policy guidance and monitor NUSAF activities.
A NUSAF Management Unit (NUMU) will be a temporary capacity building
mechanism to facilitate the incorporation of community needs and with support
from central government line ministries). NUMU will primarily operate at three
levels:-
a)   A National Liaison Office in the Office of the Prime Minister (Minister of
State for Northern Uganda Rehabilitation) who will manage national-level
coordination to ensure that various stakeholders are kept informed of
developments within NUSAF.
b)   A regional office located in one district in the North to manage the
provision of technical backstopping to District Councils in the 18 Northern
Uganda districts.
C)   A District Project Technical Officer supported by an Accounts Assistant
working in the NUSAF District under the Chief Administration Officer
(CAO) to assist with the management of project activities in the districts.
NUMU will have a small complement of staff, relying mainly on sectoral ministry
experts. consultants, NGOs/CBOs, the private sector and District Council staff to
support community efforts in project management (planning, implementation, and
evaluation).
Budget provision
A Project Preparatory Facility has been accessed to pilot the NUSAF system
over a period of six to nine months. In this phase, the Multi-sectoral Task Force
will test out the proposed implementation arrangements, processes and
procedures and delivery mechanisms in 32 sites, one in each of the 5 sub-
regions of West Nile, Lango, Teso. Acholi and Karamoja. Consultants that
participated in the Community Needs Assessment study are contained in Annex
12 altached.
In view of the importance that Government attaches to NUSAF, shillings
464,000,000/= (four hundred million) has been provided in the budget in this
year's budget in this year's budget as counterpart funding from government to
support the project activities during FY 2001/2002. For the FY 200212003,
adequate provision would be made in the budget, within the MTEF to cover the
GoU counterpart funds.  In the poverty and eradication Plan of Action,
govemment is committed to raise the share of basic services in the total
- 85 -



recurrent expenditure in the medium term to ensure adequate funding for sustainable
levels of those services.
Conclusion
Through the policy implementation and institutional support described above to
empower and support the poorest communities in Northem Eastem through the
provision of socia-economic infrastructure and assistance to vulnerable groups to be
able to participate in mainstream development, the project is expected to reduce the
gap in poverty levels between the North and East with the rest of the Country. This
social protection type of intervention is needed in the North not only because the
other mechanisms did not effectively deliver in these districts but also because it
helps communities develop capacity to cope with menu of choices. In this way it
brings confidence building and awareness creation as a pre-requisite for
development.
Finally, I wish to thank the World Bank for its continued cooperation and support
extended to the govemment of Uganda.
Yours incerely,
}'     /        /
,/Ge a   . Ssendaula   7
/ MINISTER OF FINANC    LANNING AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
CC: RT. Hon. Prime Minister.
CC: Minister of State for Northern Uganda Rehabilitation
Office of the Prime Minister.
CC:  Permanent Secretary/ Secretary to the Treasury.
- 86 -



MAP SECTION



SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
i)   DISTRICT CAPITALS
(i9  NATIONAL CAPITAL
------ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
SUB-REGION BOUNDARIES WITHIN NORTHERN UGANDA
' REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           This mop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
0          50        100        150                     on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
l          l          l          l                      judgment on the legolstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
KILOMETERS                                acceptonce of such boundaries.
300                                               320                                              340
--'S.,>                                         /    <            -              \ 
V                                          SU DA N
.Aru        'N    LEo '<                   >W I                     Itg  odl  KSotidoyo    f 
E M OC RAT IC       To Aba~    vfr'R    i8iy'~         G      UI J\\ h
DF   CONGO                                                           -~ ~ei         a    c Opei
MBw0nboro  kd {   I  ° KAL,ANGALA   |   ) 1,  e  !I-
G                        KKo6oWe
-   dib    Nobehomooi~isuy,MgfL
Ki um                       romLi   h
o WE ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   N    o   ~         IsIi~~            o
LU  R         Kamuli         /    i'dcia P  MBAe
(  f  ROL                              ,             ~yun                 ~           -~sep ipNogggerAd  -
REPbUBL® ICo~                            As. ube R. /'oogl    i'~'~     j?L4~               gg'BgrL          ouiO      N
//KFN0CONGO                                                              QO    >       @My)gGFcS
'~~?W  ~  ~  KotngaR?.-,  Ponnn~9lo            Mf      '      -'        2r                  - 
Mpondwe  /         tEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kiyadog
Rubirizi  ~~~~~~  /  *~~~~ Kitem         o~~~ongo a                                           l1  ' 
*  enyi ,         )O~~~~~ I 
0B~~inbora ,~~ ~--  . *  a  /v;;~~b.  ,,i~~j\1  KALANGALAu



IMAGING
Report No         23885  UG
Type:    PAD



