E503
Volume 1
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK (ESMF)
FOR NORTHERN UGANDA SOCIAL ACTION FUND (NUSAF)                                              20.09.2001
1.   INTRODUCTION
Background
NUSAF will empower communities in Northern Uganda (18 districts located in the North and East) by enhancing their capacity
to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs within their own values systems, through a social fund within the
broad framework of community demand development as developed within the Bank. It will implement sustainable
development initiatives that improve socio-economic services and opportunities, thereby contributing to improved livelihoods
by placing money in the hands of the communities
Parallel with the proposed NUSAF, Uganda is receiving IDA credit of 22 $M for the Second Environmental Management and
Capacity Building Project. One of the five major areas of this project is to build the capacity of NEMA to
* Enhance the capacity of NEMA to coordinate, monitor and supervise environmental activities
* Build the capacity of sector ministries to provide policy guidance and technical back-up to district departments to
integrate environmental concerns into sector plans and programs
* Build the capacity of districts and sub-county levels to manage the environment and provide households with the
necessary information and extension support to enable them to adopt improved and sustainable resource management
technology.
Therefore no specific capacity building of NEMA has been included in NUSAF. NUSAF will finance facilitation costs incurred
by NEMA staff and district level environmental staff in carrying out NUSAF activities, and fund outsourcing environmental
training and facilitation where necessary. Training of district staff on how to facilitate communities is an important element in
NUSAF, and this will also include environmental awareness, environmental assessment and mitigation aspects as budgeted
for in NUSAFs capacity building component.
Project description
Specifically, NUSAF will:
(a) strengthen community participation, leadership development and resource mobilization;
(b) improve quality and access to social services and community-initiated infrastructure through community rehabilitating and
building projects;
(c) support peace-building and conflict management through local institutions and civil society organizations (CSO); and
(d) provide and facilitate support to vulnerable groups, especially the youth and women affected by conflict; and
(e) provide institutional support to build capacity to manage the project, disseminate information, monitor and evaluate
activities as well as strengthen the local government institutions that provide technical support to the project.
FILE COPY



2
1I.   FRAMEWORK OBJECTIVES
Uganda's national policy on environmental and social issues
Following the enactment of the National Environment Statute, 1995, it is now a requirement that all policies, development
programs, projects and activities with a likelihood to cause significant impacts to the environment carry out Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) so that appropriate measures are identified to mitigate the anticipated environmental impacts. See
attachment 3 for national EIA policy.
With the establishment of NEMA as the agency responsible for co-ordination, monitoring and supervision of environmental
management in the country, including environmental assessment activities, EIA has now increasingly assumed a central role
as a tool for integrating environmental concern into the development planning process. In order to meet the statutory
requirement for EIA, there is increasing pressure and demand from the public and development partners for NEMA to define
the framework and process for carrying out ElAs for developments of a sectoral nature and for major development programs
whose implementation could cause unforeseen and cumulative environmental impacts if these are not recognised and
mitigated early enough.
The basic components of the EIA Process in Uganda consist of three interconnected phases: screening, environmental
impact study, and decision making. The relevant components of the EIA process can be applied to policies and projects
during the conceptual and design stages, or after completion of policy and/or project formulation and design but before actual
implementation. The basic components of the EIA process, including outputs and inputs, are described in Attachment 3.
The objective of the screening phase is to determine if a proposed project has or does not have significant impacts. If it is
determined not to have potential to cause significant environmental impacts, it is excluded from further environmental impact
assessment, and the project is implemented with, where appropriate, recommendations to the developer for sound
environmental management of the project. Such is the case with NUSAF.
Since the operationalisation of the Uganda EIA process, most ElAs done have been of a project-specific type. However, there
has been an increasing demand for EIA guidelines for broader development program to guide EIA application to
environmental analysis of major development programs before they are implemented. The development of an environmental
assessment framework for NUSAF will contribute to application of EIA to wider development programs in a national context.
Guidance on the application of environmental assessment requirements for major development programs is not, however,
readily available since guidelines for this have not yet been defined in Uganda. As NUSAF develops community and district
checklists, these will be supervised and refined by NEMA and district level environmental staff. It is envisaged that the
development of program level environmental analysis tools will enhance the integration of environmental concerns into
development planning before individual sub-projects under these programs are implemented or even identified. The IDA
approved Environmental Management and Capacity Building project will provide support for the development of these
guidelines for wider programs, from which NUSAF in turn will benefit.



3
World Bank safeguard policies
OPM and NEMA have been made aware of the bank's safeguard policies. As NUSAF is classified as a Financial Intermediary
project (Fl), the NUSAF MU and the district level technical staff will be responsible for identifying any activities which might
violate the Bank's safeguard policies. NUSAF MU will alert the OPM (Office of the Prime Minister), who will notify the Bank
should any issue occur which might potentially violate the Bank's safeguard policies. Below is an analysis of relevant
safeguard policies and their relevance for NUSAF.
World Bank Environmental, Social and Legal Safeguard Policies and their NUSAF Relevance
No.   Safeguard                                                           Summary                                                  NUSAF Relevance
Policies
Environmental Sa e  uard Policies:
4.01    Environmental          *  These EA policies and procedures represent the indispensable umbrella process to ensure compliance of  *  Relevant. NUSAF will put
OP/B   Assessment                  Bank-funded operations with all other safeguard policies.                                          in place EA framework for
P/GP'                           *  It provides the framework for diagnosing the current situation, predicting the likely developments and  subprojects cycle to ensure
the likely impacts of the project as submitted to assessment and for recommending measures to prevent  environmental awareness
or mitigate the most adverse impacts. Environmental consequences should be recognized early in the  and compliance. Needed
project cycle and taken into account in project selection, siting, planning, and design by preventing,  mitigation measures will
minimising, mitigating or compensating for adverse environmental impacts and enhancing positive    be funded under the sub-
impacts, and includes the process of mitigating and managing environmental impacts throughout project  projects.
implementation.
4.04    Natural Habits          .  Aims to support the protection, maintenance, and rehabilitation of natural habitats.            *   Relevant, will be
OP                             *  The Bank does not support projects involving the significant conversion of natural habitats unless there  addressed through NUSAF
are no feasible alternatives for the project and its siting and comprehensive analysis demonstrate that  sub-project cycle of
overall benefits from the project substantially outweigh the environmental costs.                  facilitation, identification,
*  Bank-financed projects that are identified by an EA as involving the significant conversion or degrada-  appraisal and approval
tion of critical natural habitats must include mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank.     *  Relevant for subprojects
*  Projects with natural habitat components must incorporate appropriate environmental expertise in the  located in or close to
project cycle to ensure the design and implementation of mitigation measures, including any necessary  natural habitats
capacity-building on the borrower's side.                                                      *   subprojects which support
*  This policy applies to subprojects under sectoral loans or loans to financial intermediaries.       protection and
maintenance of natural
habitats will be funded
' OP: Operational Policy; BP: Bank Procedures; GP: Good Practices



4
4.09    Pest Management  .  Aims to promote the use of biological or environmental control methods and reduce the use of synthetic   *  May be relevant, will be
OP                                 chemical pesticides in Bank-financed agricultural and public health projects respectively           identified through NUSAF
*  Should biological or environmental methods prove themselves to be ineffective, the Bank may finance  sub-project cycle
the use of pesticides, the procurement of which is contingent on a risk assessment and set criteria for  *  typically subprojects may
pesticide selection and use                                                                        include the application of
*  In Bank-financed projects, pest management is carried out by the borrower in the context of the project's  pesticides, at a small or
environmental assessment. An assessment is made of the capacity of the country's regulatory framework  medium scale
and institutions to promote and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management.  *  possible subprojects might
address pest control and
rodent extinction for sanita
reasons. Also, in health
protection activities, DDT
can potentially be procurec
e.g. for malaria vector
.__ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ _   co n tro l.
4.36    Forestry               .   Aims to reduce deforestation, promote reforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forested  * May be relevant. In NUSAF,
OP                                  areas, reduce poverty and encourage economic development.                                          cumulative effects of
*  The Bank will not finance commercial logging operations or acquisition of equipment for use in prirnary  deforestation due to brick-
moist tropical forests. In forests of high ecological value, the Bank will finance only preservation and  buming, charcoal making
light, non-extractive use of forest resources.                                                     cultivation will be
*  The Bank's lending operations in the forest sector are conditional on government conmmitment to sustain-  prevented or mitigated.
able management and conservation-oriented forestry, which would require the client country to:  *   Possible subprojects
-   adopt a suitable policy, legal and institutional framework                                     include afforestation
-   adopt a comprehensive forestry conservation and development plan                               projects which will have
-   establish institutional capacity                                                               positive accumulative
*   Exclusively environmentally protective investment projects or investment projects supportive of small  effects
farmers are distinguished from all other forestry operations and may be appraised on their own social,
economic and environmental merits. They may only be pursued in the context of broad sectoral reforms. *   NUSAF will not fund
______ __________________ __________________________________________________________________________________  commercial logging



5
4.37    Safety of Dams         .  This policy is concerned with the safety of new and existing dams on which a Bank-financed project is   *   Not relevant
OP                                 directly dependent. The policy distinguishes between the (i) construction of new dams and (ii) existing
dams and dams under construction (DUC).                                                       *   Large dam projects (e.g.
*  (i) New Dams                                                                                       with a height of more then
-  Small dams (normally less than 15 meters in height) generic dam safety measures designied by quali-  15 meters) will not be
fied engineers are usually adequate.                                                          financed under NUSAF
-  For large dams (15 meters or more in height or between 10 and 15 meters with special design com-
plexities) the Bank requires reviews by an independent panel of experts throuighout investigation,    *   Small scale hydro project
design and construction of the dam and the stalt of operations; preparation and implementation of  will not be on NtJSAFs
detailed plans; and periodic safety inspections of the dam after completion.                  list of possible
-  The panel's primary purpose is to review and advise the borrower on matters relative to dam safety  subprojects
and other critical aspects of the darn, its appurtenant structures, the catchmrent area, the area sur-
rounding the reservoir, and downstream areas. The borrower normally extends the panel's composi-
tion and TOR beyond dam safety to cover such areas as project formulation, technical design, coIn-
struction procedures, and associated works such as power facilities, river diversion during construc-
tion, shiplifts, and fish ladders.
*  (ii) Existing Dams and Dams under Construction (DUC)
-  The Bank frequently finances projects that do not include a new dam but rely on the performance of an
existing dam or a DUC.
Typical projects are: power stations or water supply systems that draw directly from a reservoir
controlled by an existing dam or a DUC; diversion dams or hydraulic structures downstream from
an existing dam or DUC; and irrigation or water supply projects that will depend on the storage and   *  NUSAF will not finance
operation of an existing dam or DUC for their supply of water and could not function if the dam failed.   these types of structures
For such projects, the Bank requires that the boiTower engage independent dam specialists to account
for the necessary safety assessments.
*   In the course of project processing, project appraisal is carried out by an appraisal team which reviews
all project information relevant to dam safety, including cost estimates; construction schedules; pro-
curement procedures; technical assistance arrangements; environmental assessments; and the plans for
construction supervision and quality assurance, instrumentation, operation and maintenanee, and emer-
gency preparedness. The team also reviews the project proposal, technical aspects, inspection reports,
panel reports, and all other borrower action plans relating to dam safety.



6
Social Safeguard Policies
O.P    Cultural Property   a  Bank policy aims to assist in the preservation of cultural property where part of a Bank-financed opera-   *  May be relevant, will be
Note                              tion, and to avoid its elimination                                                              catered for in NUSAFs
11.03/                        *  The Bank normally declines to finance projects that will significantly damage nonreplicable cultural  checklists
To                                property, and assists only those projects that are sited or designed so as to prevent damage.
be
issue
d as
4.11
OP/B
P/GP
4.12    Indigenous Peoples . This policy putports to ensure that indigenous people benefit from development projects and to avoid or    *  Not relevant in Northern
OD2                               mitigate adverse effects on indigenous people caused by Bank-assisted activities. Special action is re-  Uganda
quired where Bank investments affect indigenous peoples, tribes, ethlnic minorities, or other groups
whose social and economic status restricts their capacity to assert their interests and rights in land and
other productive resources.
* The Bank addresses issues on indigenous peoples through (a) country economic and sector work, (b)
technical assistance and (c) investment project components or provisions. Addressing issues pertaining
to indigenous peoples must be based on the informed participation of the indigenous people themselves.
* Issues concerning indigenous peoples can arise in a variety of sectors that concem the Bank; those in-
volving, for example, agriculture, road construction, forestry, hydropower, mining, tourism, education,
and the environment should be carefully screened. Issues related to indigenous peoples are commonly
identified through the environmnental assessment or social impact assessment processes, and appropriate
measures should be taken under environmental mitigation actions.
:______ ____________________ The Bank policy advocates the design of indigenous peoples development plans.
2 OD: Operational Directive



7
4.30    Involuntary Reset-  .  This Bank policy aims to ensure that the population displaced by a project receives benefit from it. It  *   Not relevant in NUSAF
OD      tlement                    secures involuntary resettlement as an integral part of project design and should be dealt with from the  since NIUSAF will not
earliest stages of project preparation, according to a set of policy considerations/ procedures.   fund activities which
*  Involuntary resettlement as referred to in this policy covers both:                                 involve involuntary
(a) the involuntary displacement (physical and non-physical) of affected people that arises fronm  resettlement or land
change in land use or water use, loss of productive assets or loss of income or means of liveli-  acquisition.
hood, whether or not the people must move to another location, and
(b) the measures for mitigating the impacts of displacement.
* The policy applies whether or not the Bank itself is financing part of the project that may require invol-
untary resettlement, and it covers resettlement resulting from activities that are not part of the Bank-fi-
nanced project but are necessary to achieve the objectives of the project.
*  Policy-congruent resettlement planning involves a number of components, one of which is concemed
with environnmental protection and management. The screening process for an environmental assessment
(EA) normally classifies projects involving involuntary resettlement as Category A. The EA of the main
investment requiring the resettlement should thus cover the potential environmental impacts of the reset-
tlement. The resettlement plan must be developed in coordination with the EA and define the boundaries
of the relocation area, and calculate incremental population density per land unit. In agricultural projects,
if the incoming resettled population is large in relation to the host population, such environmental issues
as deforestation, overgrazing, soil erosion, sanitation, and pollution are likely to become serious and
plans should either include appropriate mitigating measures or should allow for alternative sites to be
selected. Urban resettlement raises other density-related issues. Constructive environmental management
provided through the EAs mitigation plan, may provide good opportunities and benefits to resettlers and
host populations alike. If the likely consequences on the environment are unacceptable, altemative
and/or additional relocation sites must be found.



Legal Sa eguard Policies:
7.60    Projects in            .  This policy is designed to reduce or mninimnze those problems affecting relations between the Bank and   *  Not relevant. NUSAF will
OP      Disputed Areas            its member countries or between the borrower and one or more neighboring countries that may arise over  not fund projects in
projects in disputed areas.                                                                      disputed areas
7.50    Projects on Inter-   .  This policy covers the following types of international waterways:                               *   Not relevant since
OP      national                   (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of water that forms a boundary between, or any river or body  NUSAF will not fund
Waterways                     of surface water that flows through, two or more states, whether Bank members or not;          projects which have
(b) any tributary or other body of surface water that is a component of any waterway described in (a);  impacts on a neighbouring
and                                                                                           couintry.
(c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded by two or more states or, if withini one state, recognized as
a necessary channel of communication between the open sea and other states- and any river flowing
into such waters.
*  The policy applies to the following types of projects:
(a) hydroelectric, irrigation, flood control, navigation, drainage, water and sewage, industrial, and
similar projects that involve the use or potential pollution of intemational waterways as described
above; and
(b) detailed design and engineering studies of projects under above (a), including those to be carried out
by the Bank as executing agency or in any other capacity.
*   The international aspects of Bank-supported projects on intemational waterways, as defined above, are
to be dealt with at the earliest possible opportunity and, where appropriate, other riparians are notified of
the proposed project and its project details. Any proposed project's potential to harm the interest of other
riparians through deprivation of water, pollution, or otherwise is determined and effected riparians are
notified.



9
Identified gaps and policy differences and how to fill those gaps
No major policy differences have been identified, but weak capacity to implement environmental and social policies may be a
problem. NUSAF is therefore setting aside funds in the PPF and under the Institutional Development Component to finance
capacity building. Capacity building needed for the relevant actors to fulfill their roles defined in the sub-project cycle as well
as training district level staff in community facilitation and CDD methodology will be funded. This will compliment ongoing
capacity building programs in the environmental administration.
The Government of Uganda and the World Bank discussed environmental safeguards issues in 1996 and 1997 and prepared
an MOU agreeing that there were no major differences in their requirements for environmental assessment, participation and
disclosure on environmental issues. The MOU has, however, not been signed so far.
III. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Sub-projects identified or to be identified
NUSAF will finance four types of activities:-
(a) Community Development Initiatives (CDI), which would be small discrete sub-projects, mainly socio-economic
infrastructure, planned, managed and implemented by communities through elected committees.
(b) Vulnerable Group Support (VGS) to respond to the needs of children and adults recovering from the effects of war (often
needing assistance from NGOs and CBOs to manage the identified and prioritised sub-project).
(c) Peace Building and Conflict Management, where communities will be facilitated to use indigenous knowledge to promote
peaceful development and reduce conflicts.
(d) Institutional development at community, district and national levels to ensure that local capacity is stimulated and
developed for sustainable sub-project management.
Emphasis will be on rehabilitation, and infrastructure which may be rehabilitated or supplied are for instance Classrooms,
Teachers' houses, Desks, Laboratories, Photo-voltaic units Toilets/Pit Latrines, Waste disposal, Core text books, Sports
fields/recreation facilities, Water point rehabilitation, Boreholes, Deep wells, Spring protection, Cattle watering facilities, Water
harvesting, Headworks for water points, Washing facilities, Pit Latrines, Nutrition gardens (for the vulnerable). Health units
2(5) and 3 (4),Drug revolving funds, Cattle drugs, Fish landing sites, Granaries, existing community roads, existing airstrips
and others.
Guidelines for environmental assessments
In view of the above, a simple framework for environment assessment will be the basis for initial screening and assessment of
the likely environment impacts of sub-projects as part of the NUSAF sub-project cycle. This framework is based on the



10
general principles and procedures that have already been elaborated in the framework EIA Guidelines in Uganda. The
framework and checklists are intended to be an integral part of the sub-project cycle (see Attachment 1) and provides the
basis for identification, appraisal and implementation of the individual sub-projects.
NUSAF will be implemented with technical facilitation from local government staff, NGOs and CBOs, as well as private firms
as approved by NUSAF MU. The sub-project cycle (see attachment 1) defines the roles and responsibilities of the different
actors by level during the preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the sub-project.
Throughout the cycle, the different sector specialists ensure that: sector norms and standards are upheld, ongoing and
planned sector initiatives are taken into account and budgetary provisions are made for any recurrent costs that may arise
from the proposed sub-project. District Environmental Officers [DEOs] exist in all the 18 districts and are employees of the
local government. Under the Environmental Management and Capacity Building Project referred to above, NEMA will facilitate
capacity development of district officers for environmental assessment. In districts targeted by NUSAF which are not targeted
by the abovementioned Environmental Management and Capacity Building Project, NUSAF will fund such training using the
training materials NEMA are using. An Operational Manual containing the various elements relating to planning, approval of
plans, disbursement of funds, implementation and reporting is under preparation, and will contain environmental assessment
guidelines and checklists. This will be tested out during the trailblazing phase of NUSAF, and guidelines and checklists refined
by OPM and NEMA.
In view of the fact that most activities under NUSAF are expected to be small scale and implemented at community level, the
environmental assessment framework in NUSAF includes simplified checklists for identifying and mitigating environmental
effects (see attachment 2) which can be used by the communities, CBOs and NGOs, as well as district technical staff, to
screen identified projects for any likely environmental impacts they are likely to generate if implemented.
In the national context, in order to facilitate the conduct and review of ElAs as required in the EIA process, developers (who in
the NUSAF case are the communities), district developmental staff and project officials, will be equipped with basic guidelines
and checklists that will enable them to identify the potential environmental implications of the proposed development program
and at a later stage, the individual development projects identified under the program. These checklists will also be the basis
for facilitating communities as well as the technical staff engaged in review of these projects to screen them for likely
environmental impacts before early enough at the planning stage before implementation.
Guidelines for social assessments/surveys
Community needs assessments have been conducted in one district in each of the five sub-regions NUSAF will cover.
Beneficiary assessments will be conducted throughout the project.
The first activity in NUSAF for any community is an extended PRA (Participatory Rural Appraisal) which empowers the
communities to define their needs, prioritise them and determine their ability to utilise NUSAF funds.



11
At the community level all interventions will be initiated by either the LC Charipersons, traditional leaders or other members
of the community from information provided via the IEC campaign. Other functions to be performed at this level include:
* Definition and identification of communities (project beneficiaries);
* Election/selection of the community project management committee and/or civil society organization to mobilize and
organize the community;
* Community needs/problem assessment;
* Determination/identification of the power structures and social composition;
* Identification of project catalysts (who to start and accelerate the process) and stakeholders (groups to relate/work with
including CSOs);
* Agreement on identified priority and proposal writing using a standard format;
* Appraisal of the sub-project proposal by the sector technical staff;
* Approval of sub-project activities by community development committees and respective Parish council and incorporation
of same in the community development plan;
* Mobilization of community contribution;
* Community-based purchases, contracting, accountability, monitoring and reporting;
* Community 0 & M
During the desk and field appraisals the District level technical staff will verify the findings before approval of sub-projects.
IV. MITIGATION PLANS
Mitigation plans will be made locally if and when the District Environmental Officers, other technical staff at district level or the
communities identify environmental problems in the proposed school block, dispensary, road rehabilitation etc. There is a lot
of indigenous knowledge on how to mitigate some of the common negative environmental effects. Money will be set aside in
the concrete sub-project to have the mitigation done.
V.   SOCiAL ISSUES
Legal framework for land
The Uganda Land Act 1998 now under implementation recognizes that land belongs to the people of Uganda. The project
area is entirely a customary land tenure regime in which communities have full rights on land based on clans, family and tribal
lineage. However, since NUSAF expects to explicitly exclude sub-projects involving involuntary resettlement or land
acquisition in its design, OD4.30 will not be applicable.



12
Identification of Project Affected people
All NUSAF activities will be community-based and will be openly discussed in village meetings during the process of
community facilitation. The facilitation process will encourage focused discussion with specific interest groups. Since it is
these meetings which will lead to sub-project identification, prioritization, planning and local agreement, vulnerable groups and
people not benefiting from sub-projects will be identified early on. The process will bring out specific and social concerns that
may be directly affecting a given community group.
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Environmental assessment will be the responsibility of the District with participation by the community, as outlined above. The
District Environmental Officers or people designated by them will screen proposed subprojects as part of the District
Technical Planning Committee [DTPC] responsible for the technical appraisal, and ensure that appropriate environmental
assessment of each subproject is carried out. Before approving a subproject, the DEO on behalf of the DTC, verifies that the
subproject meets the environmental requirements of appropriate, indigenous, national and local authorities and is consistent
with applicable environmental policies of the Bank. NEMA and/or its vetted consultants will train those DEOs not yet exposed
to the EA for community projects as well as familiarity with Bank safeguards issues, partly through NUSAFs training program,
and partly through the training funded under other Bank's and local donors' environmental projects operational in the selected
districts. It is expected that NUSAF will enhance the capacity for safeguarding environment issues in the local institutions of
the Local Councils [LC1 to LC5] as prescribed by the National Constitution. Community sub-projects may not in each case
have negative environmental effects, but the cumulative effects may over time be negative, thus necessitating a holistic
involvement in community driven development on the part of DEOs and their staff.
Since the most commonly identified environmental problem is lack of forest cover, the checklists to be incorporated in the
implementation manuals in NUSAF will include aspects of cumulative impacts such as deforestation from local brick burning
and afforestation through sub-projects.
VIl. PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS AND PARTICIPATION STRATEGY
Participation and public consultation
NUSAF activities are community-based and will be openly discussed in village meetings during the process of community
facilitation, which most often will encourage focused discussion with specific interest groups like youth, women and elders.
These meetings will lead up to sub-project identification, prioritization, planning and local agreement, which factors in all
community groups concerns. This process is envisioned to bring out specific environmental and social concerns that may be
directly affecting a given community group. Activities are also discussed by the elected district assemblies, the Local Councils



13
(LCs), LCl to LC5, that represent the various categories of the Ugandan population. All social and environmental concerns
and mitigation measures will be discussed and agreed upon during these sessions
Vil. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
Uganda disclosure requirements
Uganda has regulations to ensure knowledge of as well as community participation in the EIA process (see Attachment 4).
There are no specific requirements for disclosure of environmental assessment at the local level, but the proposed system
outlined above is sufficiently participatory, open and transparent.
World Bank disclosure requirements
The World Bank requires that an Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), with an accompanying Environmental and Social
Environment Framework (ESMF), be submitted to and approved by the Africa Safeguards Team and disclosed in the World
Bank's Info Shop in Washington as well as in Uganda prior to appraisal.
IX.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION ARRANGEMENTS
A monitoring protocol, identifying simple monitorable indicators to be used by all actors including the community
implementers, will be put in place as part of NUSAF MUs overall monitoring process, as part of their MIS. As well as individual
sub-projects, cumulative impacts will also be monitored.
Key performance indicators for NUSAF include
1) The level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with community-level project outputs, as measured in beneficiary assessments;
2) responsiveness and accountability of civil societies, local and national Government and other key stakeholders
involved in the decision making processes at all levels, as recorded in key documents such as minutes of meetings and
supervision mission reports; and
3) employment and social indicators as reported by Government.
Specific indicators for economic and social effects will be worked out during the pilot phase to be funded under a PPF, but
may include
1) Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with community level outcomes (measured by a beneficiary assessment rating
satisfaction from 1-5)
2) Beneficiaries by gender
3) Changes in forest cover in project areas
4) Erosion/landscaping in the community subprojects
And others.



