Report No. PID10211
Project Name             Uganda-Northern Uganda Social Action Fund
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Social Funds
Project ID               UGPE2952
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address TASK FORCE OFFICE OF THE PRIME
MINISTER
Address: OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER,
P.O. BOX 341, KAMPALA
Contact Person: MR. TIMOTHY LUBANGA
Tel: 256-41-251031
Fax: 256-41-341139
Email: <opmcm@africaonline.co.ug>
Environment Category     F
Date PID Prepared        April 13, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 12, 2002
Bank Approval Date       July 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The 2001 Uganda Poverty Status Report (UPSR) indicates that about 35% of
the population still lives below the poverty line, and the average per
capita income in Uganda is only now approaching the level achieved in
1970. The report also acknowledges that in spite of a clear and
impressive decline in poverty (headcount index) of over 209 over the
five-year period from 1992 to 1997, significant regional disparities in
poverty persist. The Northern region has the highest incidence of poverty
at 66%, compared to the Central region's rate of 20%-.   UNDP's Human
Development Report (HDR) 2000 shows that though the human development
index (HDI) has shown significant improvement for Uganda and now stands at
0.508 nationally, the rates for the Northern (at 0.418) and Eastern (at
0.480) regions are still below the national average (Central is 0.559 and
Western is 0.479). The report further indicates that of the bottom 10
districts with the worst indicators, nine (Moroto including Kapiripirit;
Kotido; Kitgum including Pader; Arua; Adjumani; Kumi; Katakwi; Nebbi and
Moyo) are found in the Northern region. The adverse effects of insurgency
and war are largely to blame for this situation. Further, as pointed out
in the PRSP, poverty among the largest group of the poor in Uganda -
subsistence food crop producers - declined only marginally during a five
year period - from 64% in 1992 to 62% in 1997.    This section of the
population constitutes the majority in districts in the Northern Region.To
gain a better understanding of what poverty means in Uganda, the
Government has supplemented household and service delivery surveys by
participatory poverty assessments over the past three years. Results
indicate that in addition to material or income poverty, there are
significant non-economic dimensions to poverty that need to be addressed.
Specifically, the poor in Uganda are concerned with the lack of access to
basic services (health care, education, safe water), land, and production



inputs. They are also concerned about insecurity (in terms of the presence
of rebel activity, cattle raiding and theft) which, according to the UPSR
2001, is "the single reason why poverty has persisted and increased in
some parts of the Country. It (insecurity) has left behind dysfunctional
family life systems that have suffered declines in economic productivity,
and increased ill-health". In addition, corruption persists. The
combination of insecurity and corruption not only increases the cost of
doing business, but has a broader detrimental effect of constraining the
access of the poor to public services.Insecurity, governance problems, and
capacity constraints have combined to discourage productive and social
sector service delivery in the North. Thus, insecurity in the Northern
Region has become both a cause and consequence of poverty. On the basis
of available studies, the North and the East are characterized by the
poorest indicators in health services, education, water supply, transport
and communications:- n The Human Development Index (HDI) for 2000
indicates that 41.3t of the population in the Northern Region is not
expected to survive to 40 years compared to the national average of of
36.1- (Central is 33t and Western is 36.1%).n A total of 30% of the
population is illiterate, with the Northern region registering the highest
rate of 39% compared to 339 and 19 in the Western and Central regions
respectively.  n 26% of the population does not have access to health
services while the rate is the highest in Northern Region at 35% compared
to 30% and 20% from the Western and Central regions respectively.    While
20% of the total child population had diarrhoea, 27% and 23% of children
in the North and East respectively had diarrhoea (UDHS 2000/01).
According to 1991 HH survey, about 98% of the women and 959 of the men in
the region were subsistence food crop producers, which is the main source
of their livelihood, followed by remittance from relatives and friends.
Subsistence levels have further declined in Karamoja and Acholi
sub-regions and among the core-poor across all sub-regions. This is partly
due to insecurity, lack of agricultural services, and long spells of
drought. Remittances from friends and families have been affected by
retrenchment from the civil service, particularly the army (Acholi
sub-region) and the general decline in the economy. The traditional
coping mechanisms have been stretched to the limit, hence the need to
design interventions that directly support the poor and core poor.
Hitherto, the centralized nature of government service delivery has
hindered increased access to and utilization of public services.
Decentralization is at the centre of the 1995 Constitution and the Local
Government Act of 1997 was passed in order to bring services closer to the
beneficiary communities. However, based on experiences to date, the Local
Government Act of 1997 is being revised to capture the need for deepening
decentralization. The project is being designed at a time when it can
facilitate this decentralization and allow for an implementation process,
jointly with the Local Government Development Program (LGDP), that will
empower the poor to act within the framework of this Local Government
Act.Besides developing a decentralized approach to tackling poverty, GOU
has adopted the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) as its medium term
strategy for economic development and poverty reduction. The PEAP was
presented to the IDA and IMF Boards as the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). The PEAP provides strategic approaches developed through
comprehensive sector-specific plans, and through consultation with
districts and the communities. The Government, through the Local
Government Development Program (LGDP), is pursuing a participatory
approach that is advocating the active involvement of beneficiaries, NGOs
-2 -



and the private sector. NUSAF will foster and pursue this same approach
by focusing on stimulating community demand, direct financing to
communities, private sector as well as CSOs, and ensuring that sectors and
local authorities appraise, approve and quality control sub-projects.
2. Objectives
The Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF) will empower communities in
Northern Uganda (18 districts located in the North and East) by enhancing
their capacity to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their
needs and implement sustainable development initiatives that improve
socio-economic services and opportunities thereby contributing to improved
livelihoods by placing money in the hands of the communities.     The
proposed project complements Government efforts to reduce poverty by
targeting eighteen districts (located in the North and East), where
development has been hampered by local and cross-border conflicts.
Through community action, leadership development and resource
mobilization, the process will strengthen the on-going peace processes in
the region. Through NUSAF, vulnerable groups (including demobilized,
ex-abducted, and unmployed youth; youths whose education was interrupted
because of the long civil strife; female headed households; orphans; and
others) will be mobilized to join mainstream development processes based
on community accountability and improved governance. The process of
over-coming underdevelopment through community action, leadership
development and resource mobilisation will strengthen the on-going peace
processes in the region. Through NUSAF, vulnerable groups (including,
among others, the youth who have directly been affected by violence and
civil strife) will be mobilised to join mainstream development processes
based on community accountability and improved governance.     The proposed
NUSAF will be part of Government's efforts to ensure that the North is
able to "catch-up" with the rest of the country in the development
processes. It will make it possible for communities to articulate and
prioritize their specific needs, and manage processes and thus enhance
good governance for peace and development as underpinned in paragraphs
below.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Under the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), the Bank's strategy
focuses on improving the quality of life and incomes of the poor under the
PEAP. The Bank has also experience in working successfully with social
funds during the last decade, in developing the basic concept for NUSAF,
the Government has taken into consideration the Bank's experience as well
as other in-country project experiences supported by other donors.A social
fund requires technical expertise in various sectors. It also requires
close donor coordination on resource mobilization and substantive
implementation and policy issues. The project, as a demand-driven approach
to development, complements the supply side stimulated by the Poverty
Support Reduction Credit (PSRC) and the Local Government Development
Program (LGDP). It will enable districts to develop capacity for the
implementation of programs initiated from the bottom and top. The Bank's
technical expertise in general, as well as specific on-going IDA financed
operations in relevant sectors such as education, health, roads water and
sanitation, puts it in a unique position to assist the Government in
addressing these cross-sectoral issues. Regarding donor co-ordination, the
Government unequivocally has taken the lead, but is hoping for Bank
support to coordinate and leverage additional resources if necessary.
- 3 -



Finally, the proposed NUSAF is linked to fiscal and macro-economic
measures, Local Government restructuring, and civil service reforms, in
which the Bank is a key stakeholder.
4. Description
ComponentSectorIndicative Costs(US$M) . of TotalBank-financing(US$M)9, of
Bank-financingi.   Community Development Initiatives [CDI] SF      97.20
72.8     68.5     68.5 2.  Vulnerable Group Support [VGS] SF      22.30
16.7  20.0    20.0   3. Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management
[CRCM]       2.8     2.12.50      2.504. Institutional Development:(a)NUSAF
Management Unit (b) Capacity building and training - communities, LAs,
CSOs/NGOs and other agencies (c)IEC Initiatives(c)M&E (including MIS)SF
11.20     8.49.00      9.0 Total    133.50100.0100.00100.OTotal Project
Costs          133.50  100.0100.00    100.OInterest during
construction                     Front-end fee                     Total
Financing Required          133.50100.0   100.00     100.0(1) Community
Development Initiatives [CDI]--Total US$97.20m (IDA US$ 68.5m) millionThe
CDI component would finance community-based, demand-driven initiatives
that fall within specific sector policies to construct and rehabilitate
small-scale socio-economic infrastructure in gender sensitive and
environmentally friendly manner, guided by a sub-project menu. Communities
would be facilitated to participate in identifying and prioritizing their
needs, followed by planning, implementing and managing sub-projects
through CSOs, extension workers, private individuals and agencies whom
they will directly contract. The sub-project menu would include
rehabilitation and construction of health units, primary schools, latrines
and community centers, water points, afforestation, community roads,
grain, storage, markets, etc. (a negative list would include big complex
infrastructure, sewerage systems, income generating activities and
micro-credit). It is estimated that about 30t of population (2.5 million
people) will be reached by the component within 5 years in the project
area..(2) Vulnerable Groups Support Sub-Projects [VGSI--Total US$ 22.30m
(IDA US$ 20.0m) millionThis component targets vulnerable groups; LAs,
CSOs/NGOs/CBOs, and institutions that work directly with these groups.
Through a participatory process, vulnerable groups and CSOs working with
such groups will be identified and supported to develop strategies likely
to contribute to poverty alleviation. The project will finance
facilitation of target groups such as IDPs, children who have been
abducted by various armies (ex-abductees); people affected by and living
with HIV/AIDS, orphansand foster parents, female headed households, etc.
by individuals, extension staff and CSOs that will have been identified.
(3) Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management Component
[CRCMI--Total US$ 2.8m (IDA US$2.50m) million The component will support
and test out community-driven approaches to peace and development by
targeting traditional leaders, local elected leaders and religious
leadership to review and strengthen on-going peace building processes
using traditinal and non-traditional approaches. These activities will
particularly focus on the three sub-regions of Karamoja, Acholi and West
Nile, building on the works of CSOs, traditional authorities and religious
leaders in the area. It will support activities at the local level,
particularly the role of traditional institutions and CSOs in conflict
resolution and management. It will also include integration of
"guns-dropped-outs", child-soldiers and abductees through community-based
approaches, counselling and psyco-social support to returnees, etc. to
local communities. These communities and groups would subsequently benefit
- 4 -



from the CDI and VGS sub-projects. (4) Institutional Development
Component--Total US$11.20m (IDA US$ 9.0m) million     (a) Capacity
Buildilng: This sub-component will support capacity building and training
for various stakeholders, including - communities, extension workers,
social and political leaders, CSOs and other partner organizations,
concerned GOU and NUSAF staff, and community facilitators (CFs). (b)
Information, Education and Communication (IEC): IEC will seek to inform
and educate the concerned stakeholders on the objectives, processesand
activities of the project and the roles of the different actors as well as
obtain and transmit from stakeholders their views and responses to the
project demand. Equal access to information is a key element to community
empowerment, transparency and accountability. This upward, horizontal and
downward folow of information is critical for ensuring that the project
ojectives are upheld. Success of the project will be measured by how much
and how timely information communities accessed from and transmitted to
the various actors as well as from their own peers by way of shared
experiences.(c) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): Effective M&E
arrangements will be integral to project desing and implementation.
Appropriate monitoring indicators will be developed and a Management
Information System (MIS) will be designed that will assist in tracking the
progress of the project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $13.30
IBRD
IDA $100.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $20.20
Total Project Cost $133.50
6. Implementation
A technical support NUSAF Management Unit (NUMU) will be established and
preferably located in a suitable town inthe North to oversee the
implementation of project activities. The Management Unit will also have a
small presence in the Office of the Prime Minister in Kampala to maintain
contact with various national-level agencies and the NUSAF Steering
Committee - comprising of government, civil society, and private sector
representatives. The three project components will require a region-wide
IEC strategy, Monitoring and Evaluation, and affective Management
Information Sytem - all of which will require the deployment of
appropriate staff in the Management Unit.    There will also be
district-level staff (Technical Officer and Accounts Assistant) to
facilitate interaction between Community Project Management Committees
(CPMCs) and district-level sectoral officers during project preparation,
appraisal, and implementation. The multi-sectoral District Technical
Planning Committee (DTPC) and Sub-County Technical Planning Committee
(STPC), which are already in place, will be facilitated to provide
appropriate integration and coordination of NUSAF activities into the
working of Local Authorities and technical agencies representing sectoral
lines ministries, as well as to define the role of NCOs and CGOs.At the
community level, CPMCs, made up of elected stakeholders (with an equal
gender representation), will have the leadership role during project
design, appraisal, implementation, and monitoring. The CPMCs will open
project accounts and receive, disburse and account for resources raised by
communities and allocated by NUSAF to the project. In the course of
- 5 -



implementing NUSAF, there will be need to procure short-term expertise to
address various bottlenecks to implementation at community, district, and
regional levels.    There will also be need to procure some office space as
well as equipment, vehicles, office supplies and operations and
maintenance using project funds to facilitate effective implementation in
the districts. The wide range of procedures and processes necessary for
the effective implementation of NUSAF will be contained in an Operational
Manual and supporting handbooks. These manuals will be developed and
tested during a pilot "trial-blazing" phase to be funded through a Project
Preparation Facility.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability issues are also tied to the complementary roles played by
other programs like LGDP, Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) and
National Agricultural Advisory Services Project (NAADS). The integration
of NUSAF activities into local government planning process will also
contribute to sustainability.   The current macro-economic stability and
the overall PEAP place greater importance on the Government's role in
supporting basic social and economic services, and these also factor in
positively. Systems and procedures will be developed as part of the
project's Operational Manual, and training of project and key Government
staff will be carried out prior to project effectiveness to ensure that
sub-projects with a low probability of sustainability will not be
undertaken, and that community groups and implementing partners with a
poor track record are denied additional sub-projects.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Social funds and decentralized community-based activities are not new in
Uganda. Since NUSAF will operate largely in a post-conflict situation,
there are lessons to be learnt from the Community Action Program (CAP)
West Nile (1992 to 1999), WEP West Nile (1996 to 1999), the District
Development Program (DDP) (1998 to-date) and European Fund (EDF) micro
project, which operated under conditions of conflict. Central management
of project activities emerged as one of the challenges in DDP. The strong
'institutional focus' and reliance on public sector nature of the approach
led to delays in financial transfers, accountability and delivery of
needed services (see 3/14/2001 Kotido Evaluation page 94-5). The local
government system, particularly in the North, lacked adequate capacity and
personnel to undertake accountability responsibilities housed within it.
These problems seem to have been overcome in the CAP West Nile, where
there was autonomy in the management system and where funds were disbursed
directly to the communities. Under the CAP West Nile, where the MU were
field based both at regional and district levels, some of the challenges
reported include delay in implementation as a result of poor technical
support from line ministries to the community. Another pertinent
challenge that reflects the post-war situation is how to overcome delays
in the implementation of projects through strict adherence to agreements,
closer supervision by program officers, and reward to communities that
adhere to planned project times. Social funds emerged in the 1980s in
response to emergency situations - natural or man-made disasters, external
shocks, deep structural changes in the economy, or sometimes a combination
of these factors. Lessons and experiences various Bank assessment
(similar) projects, numerous ICRs, studies and evaluations have been
incorporated in the design of proposed projects. The main lessons that
emerged are that NUSAF should start with a pilot phase to test and
- 6-



finalize procedures; respond to demand and systematically involve
clients/stakeholders; mobilize local resources and build local consensus;
set clear targets; ensure that capacity building and infrastructure
development remain complementary in the long-run without conflicting in
the short-run; use a technically sound implementation unit to coordinate
across sectors and administration structures; keep short-term objectives
distinct and develop a long-term perspective; define criteria that are
pro-poorest members of the community, and safeguard autonomy, transparency
and accountability.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The poor and the most vulnerable sections of the
population are often the most dependant on renewable natural resources for
income generation and risk aversion. Experience has shown that
sub-projects eligible under the NUSAF are normally small in sizes and with
minimal requirement for environmental protection override the requirement
for environmental protection. In this context, NUSAF will play an active
role in promoting IEC campaigns, carrying out sensitization workshops and
training. Community members and all other stakeholders will be trained in
the environmental impacts of developmental projects, environmental
indicators and possible mitigation measures.     Government regulations
require that environmental assessments be conducted for each development
project. The MTF has involved the National Environment Management
Authority (NEMA) in defining how the later will build district capacity to
guide and facilitate communities to carry out assessments. For all the
NUSAF sub-projects to be funded by project, the potential environmental
impacts will be identified early during the preparation stages using
simple checklists, and measures to avoid or minimize impacts will be
incorporated into the the sub-projects design.The majority of
demand-driven community sub-projects will be of a comparatively small
size. It is expected that the focus of these sub-project will be in the
social sectors, with resulting negligible negative impact on the
environment. Sub-projects in the areas of water and sanitation, public
health, and forest will likely have a posititive impact on the
environment. The final environmental assessment will be made on a
case-by-case study basis. NUSAF will play an active role in promoting and
supporting sub-projects aimed at improving the management of natural
resources by poor communities. The project will have a very clear
sensitization and capacity building program related to environmental
issues supported at the district level by the District Environmental
Officers. The design of the majority infrastructure sub-project for
financing will allow for an effective environmental screening, evaluation
and supervisory mechanism for environmental impact. NUSAF will, through
the DEO, other trained district staff and CSOs trained by NEMA:-(i)
include environmental assessment during participatory appraisal process
with the communities, and monitor the criteria for sub-projects by way of
a checklist developed with the communities;(ii) carry out environmental
assessments;(iii) raise community awareness over environmental issues;
and(iv) finance community-based environmental projects like afforestation,
energy saving stoves, etc, as determined by the relevant communities.
11. Contact Point:
-7-



Task Manager
Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 5393-236
Fax: 5393-267
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 3, 2002.
-8-



