                                       Document of

                                     The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001211



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                (IDA-36970 IDA-3697A IDA-46260 TF-20972 TF-50522)



                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 80.1 MILLION
                          (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                          FOR A

                    NORTHERN UGANDA SOCIAL ACTION FUND



                                     December 30, 2009




Social Protection Sector Unit
East Africa Country Department 1
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective August 2009)
                     Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (U Sh)
                           1.00 USh = US$ [0.000485]
                           US$ 1.00 = USh [2,060.00]
                                FISCAL YEAR

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community-Based Organization
CDD     Community-Driven Development
CDI     Community Development Initiative
CNA     Community Needs Assessment
CPMC    Community Subproject Management
        Committee
CRCM    Community Reconciliation and Conflict
        Management
CSO     Community Service Organization
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
GoU     Government of Uganda
HDI     Human Development Index
IDA     International Development Association
IDP     Internally Displaced Person
IEC     Information, Education, and Communication
ILI     Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
LA      Local Authority
LLG     Lower-Level Local Government
LRA     Lord's Resistance Army
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR     Mid-Term Review
MU      Management Unit
NAADS   National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NUMU    NUSAF Management Unit
NUSAF   Northern Uganda Social Action Fund
OPM     Office of the Prime Minister
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMC     Project Management Committee
PEAP    Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PPF     Project Preparatory Facility
PPS     Probability Proportional to Size
PRA     Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRDP    Northern Uganda Peace Recovery and Development Plan
QER     Quality at Entry
UJAS    Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
VGS     Vulnerable Groups Support
YOP     Youth Opportunities Program
WFP     World Food Program


                                          ii
                                             Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                            Country Director/Manager: John Murray McIntire/ Kundhavi Kadiresan
                                           Sector Manager: Lynne Sherburne-Benz
                                    Project Team Leader: Suleiman Namara
                                        ICR Team Leader: Hardwick Tchale


                                                     CONTENTS


A. Basic Information ..................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
H. Restructuring (if any).............................................................................................. viii
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.......................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design, implementation,
and outcome issues)...................................................................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide, general application).......... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies and Partners 23
Annex 1.        Project Costs and Financing.................................................................... 25
Annex 2.        Key Performance Indicators.................................................................... 26
Annex 3.        Economic and Financial Analysis........................................................... 29
Annex 4.        Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 32
Annex 5.        Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................... 34
Annex 6.        Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (Impact Evaluation Report) 40
Annex 7.        Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............... 42
Annex 8.        Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners or Stakeholders .......... 49
Annex 9.        List of Supporting Documents ................................................................ 51
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 52




                                                                 iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                          UG-N Uganda Soc
Country:                Uganda                  Project Name:
                                                                          Action Fund (FY03)
                                                                          IDA-36970,IDA-
Project ID:             P002952                 L/C/TF Number(s):         3697A,IDA-46260,TF-
                                                                          20972,TF-50522
ICR Date:               12/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 80.1M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 80.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 80.1M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Northern Uganda Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/21/2001     Effectiveness:                              02/05/2003
Appraisal:            03/18/2002     Restructuring(s):                           10/17/2005
Approval:             07/23/2002     Mid-term Review:           05/30/2005       06/06/2005
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2008       03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       10                   32
Health                                                                 20                     4
Other social services                                                  35                   21
Primary education                                                      20                   31
Water supply                                                           15                   12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                   20                   22
Decentralization                                                       20                   18
Other social protection and risk management                            20                   20
Participation and civic engagement                                     20                   19
Social safety nets                                                     20                   21

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          John McIntire                         Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz               Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:       Suleiman Namara                       Norbert O. Mugwagwa
ICR Team Leader:           Suleiman Namara
ICR Primary Author:        Hardwick Tchale




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To empower communities in 18 districts in Northern Uganda by enhancing their capacity
to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs and implement sustainable
development initiatives that improve socio-economic services and opportunities - thereby
contributing to improved livelihoods by placing money in the hands of communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NUSAF went through a limited/informal restucturing.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Level of community satisfaction with sub-project outcomes
                                            Majority of
Value
                                            Beneficiary
quantitative or 0                                                                73%
                                            Communities
Qualitative)
                                            covered.
Date achieved 02/05/2003                    03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Data sourced from community score card report
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Proportion of population with access to improved learning Environment
Value
quantitative or zero                        15 % increase                        12.8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/05/2003                    03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
Comments        The target was not achieved as: (a) community demand shifted to teachers#
(incl. %        houses; (b) some of the resources were used to pay for cost variations arising
achievement) from material cost inflation; and (c) to meet functionality needs of sub-projects.
Indicator 3 : Proportion of population with access to improved water sources by end of project
Value
                                            20% increase                         23% (over the
quantitative or 70%
                                            (over the 70%)                       70%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/05/2003                    03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
                The majority of Northern Uganda#s population lived in IDP camps before 2008.
Comments
                The provision of safe water was easy and concentrated around IDP camps. Now
(incl. %
                that people have resettled in their orignal villages, safe water coverage has
achievement)
                declined to below 90%.
                Communities benefitting from non-governmental organization
Indicator 4 :
                (NGO)/community-based organization (CBO) reconciliation efforts.
Value
quantitative or N/A                         800                                  843
Qualitative)


                                              iii
Date achieved 02/05/2005                     03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                           Target Years
                  Households utilizing sub-project facilities
Indicator 1 :
Value
(quantitative     N/A                        200,000                              1,110,731
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/05/2003                  03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
Comments          The difference relative to the target can be attributed to: (a) exchange rate gains
(incl. %          of about US$20 million that allowed the project to reach more vulnerable
achievement)      communities.
Indicator 2 :     Vulnerable persons in receipt of assistance.
Value
(quantitative     N/A                            55,000                           2240,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/05/2005                 03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
Comments
                  The overachievement is due to the shift in focus from Community Development
(incl. %
                  Initiative (CDI) to Vulnerable Group Support (VGS).
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of functional community project management Committees
Value
(quantitative     N/A                        80%                                  98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/05/2005                03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments          Functionality was measured by the frequency of community subproject
(incl. %          management committee (CPMC) meetings (i.e., measured by the number of
achievement)      meetings held and the availability of minutes prepared after each meeting).
                  Proportion of women involved in Community Reconciliation and Conflict
Indicator 4 :
                  Management (CRCM) activities.
Value
(quantitative   N/A                          30%                                  45%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/02/2003                     03/31/2009                           03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                   iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    11/27/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    05/29/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    12/16/2003       Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    5.20
  4    04/09/2004       Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    9.40
  5    11/10/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   15.75
  6    12/30/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   15.75
  7    05/10/2005   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            25.76
  8    08/18/2005   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            26.64
  9    12/19/2005       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            39.13
 10    06/23/2006       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            59.81
 11    12/28/2006       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            69.64
 12    06/08/2007       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            78.85
 13    12/11/2007       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            96.62
 14    06/20/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  118.38
 15    12/31/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  118.38
 16    06/30/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  120.22


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Key performance indicators for
                                                     this project were refined to be in
                                                     line with the IDA-15 core
                                                     indicators. In addition, 100%
                                                     retroactive financing was
                                                     effected in line with the
 10/17/2005       N       MS    MS           29.72   approved financing parameters.
                                                     This change was documented
                                                     through an amendment of the
                                                     Development Credit Agreement
                                                     (DCA) that was approved by the
                                                     Regional Vice President on
                                                     September 18, 2007.




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Northern Uganda's economic stagnation arises out of more than two decades of brutal
conflict. The insurgency in the region has taken a tremendous toll on both population and
economy. At the end of 2005, an estimated 1.6 million people had been forced to leave their
homes in Northern and Eastern Uganda to live in Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps for
fear of being attacked and/or abducted by rebels. The cost of the conflict to the national
economy1 has been estimated at over US$1.3 billion (for 1986­2002), more than 3 percent of
GDP. Moreover, parts of the region have been affected by cattle rustling activities that
originated in Karamoja.

2.      As a result, the North remains the poorest region in Uganda with some of the lowest
human development indicators in the country. The 2005/06 National Household Survey shows
that the North has the largest proportion of people living in poverty, estimated at 61 percent,
almost twice the national poverty level of 31 percent. The gap between the North and national
poverty levels has widened from 17 percent in 1992 to 30 percent in 2005/06, with poverty in
the North falling less than in any other region since the early 1990s.

3.      The community safety-net systems and the traditional social and economic fabric of the
Northern Uganda people have been greatly disrupted and weakened by the armed conflict. The
Northern Uganda citizens showed a general feeling of dissatisfaction and hopelessness and the
majority had lost motivation and confidence. The human capital development potential,
especially for youth, was greatly inhibited and the energy needed for the development process
had been undermined. In addition, the local government's administrative and technical capacity
was dismally weak. In response to all of these factors, the Government of Uganda (GoU), under
the coordination of the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM), initiated the implementation of the
NUSAF project with a credit of US$100 million from the International Development
Association (IDA). Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF) was designed and carried
out in an extremely conflict-affected and politically sensitive environment.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

4.      The PDO was to empower communities in 18 districts in Northern Uganda by enhancing
their capacity to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs, and implement
sustainable development initiatives that improve socioeconomic services and opportunities--
thereby contributing to improved livelihoods by placing money in the hands of communities.

1
  Since 2002, Civil Society Organizations for Peace in Northern Uganda (2006) estimate the total cost to have risen
to US$1.7 billion, which is likely an underestimate because of data constraints and limited geographic coverage.
The costs include estimates of military expenditure, reduced economic activity, loss of skilled labor, loss of tax
revenue, loss from environment and land degradation, and investments in IDP camps that will no longer be of use
when the camps are disbanded.
5.     However, in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the PDO is described as
follows:

"To support the Borrower's efforts to empower communities living in Northern Uganda and
influence their livelihood through (a) enhancing the capacity of the communities to
systematically identify, prioritize and plan for their needs; (b) strengthening the on-going
reconciliation process in Northern Uganda; and (c) implementing sustainable development
initiatives that improve socio-economic services and opportunities and support vulnerable
groups, including youth and women affected by conflict."

6.      There are differences in wording between the statement of objectives in the project
appraisal document (PAD) and DCA. While the PAD PDO talks about contributing to
improved livelihoods by placing money in the hands of communities, this is not indicated in the
DCA PDO. However, given that the project operational model was through direct community
financing, which allowed communities to be responsible for procurement and financial
management, the difference between the PAD PDO and the DCA PDO is not material. On the
other hand, while the DCA PDO talks about supporting the ongoing reconciliation processes in
Northern Uganda, this is not explicit in the PAD PDO. The PAD PDO however, talks about
sustainable development initiatives that improve socioeconomic services and opportunities,
which require reconciled and stable communities in a post-conflict environment. Similarly these
differences are not material. That said, the differences in wording should have been reconciled.
The ICR team adopts the DCA PDO as a basis of analysis of project outcomes and uses the
PAD to analyze the overall project thrust.

7.     The impact and outcome indicators were defined at appraisal using the log frame format
as below.

8.      Impact (higher-level) indicators:

     a. Percent improvement in Human Development Index (HDI) in the region.
     b. Percent increase in government spending for social sectors aligned with NUSAF
        activities.
     c. Percent changes in health status and school enrollments in participating communities.

9.      Outcome indicators:

     a. Percent of population reached by NUSAF through improved socioeconomic
        infrastructure.
     b. Percent of beneficiaries satisfied with community-level projects as reported in
        Beneficiary Assessments.
     c. Number of women benefitting from project activities.



                                               2
10.   After Midterm Review (MTR), three outcome indicators were refined and included in
Schedule 5 of the DCA. These are:

      a. Proportion of population in 18 districts with access to improved water sources with a
         target of 20 percent.
      b. Proportion of population in 18 districts with access to improved learning environment
         with a target of 15 percent.
      c. Percentage of functional community management committees by the end of the project
         with a target of 80 percent.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, with
Reasons and Justification

11.     While the PDO was not revised, some PDO indicators were refined to be in line with the
IDA-15 core indicators. The amendment was approved by the regional vice president on
September 18, 2007. The refinement of indicators did not include a formulation of new ones,
but it ensured that the existing ones were specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and time
bound. The proposed changes did not affect the development objective and outcome targets. In
addition, the inconsistencies in indicator terminology in the PAD and DCA were noted. For
example "output" indicators in the PAD's Annex 1, should have read as "intermediate outcome"
indicators and the term "output" in the DCA's Schedule 5 should have read as "outcomes." To
accommodate these changes, Schedule 5 of the DCA was amended.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.      NUSAF support was meant to benefit the following:

      a. Children and youth who had been abducted during the civil war;
      b. People who surrendered and returned guns in exchange for a changed livelihood
         (including abductees and gun dropouts);
      c. People whose careers were disrupted as a result of the prolonged conflict and breakdown
         of traditional systems;
      d. Female-headed households; the aged; those affected by HIV/AIDS, including orphans,
         foster parents, widows and widowers; the very poor; the disabled; and others affected by
         the conflict; and
      e. Local governments and community-level institutions.

13.     The beneficiaries were carefully selected in accordance with the conflict/post conflict
situation and in response to the human capital challenges of the region. These challenges
include building incentives and opportunities for youth who would otherwise be attracted into
rebellion.




                                                 3
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project components were as follows:

A. Community Development Initiatives IDA Allocation: US$53.04 million

14.     The Community Development Initiative aimed to finance demand-driven community-
based initiatives to construct and rehabilitate socioeconomic infrastructure on a small scale. The
design of this component entailed the participation of communities so that their needs could be
identified and prioritized. Communities also planned and managed the implementation of the
subprojects with the facilitation of local authorities, (LAs), community service organizations
(CSOs), Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and private individuals. The funding
threshold for subprojects was US$20,000, except for those subprojects approved by the LAs and
endorsed by the National Steering Committee at the recommendation of the NUSAF
Management Unit (NUMU). Beneficiary communities were to contribute 20 percent of the
subproject cost. This component was meant to reach about 2.5 million people, approximately 30
percent of the population of Northern Uganda.

B. Vulnerable Groups Support IDA Allocation: US$41.06 million

15.     This component was meant to provide support to vulnerable groups as defined under
section 1.4. Subprojects were also identified, planned, and implemented through community
participation. Communities with insufficient capacity to manage the subprojects would be
supported by a Civil Society Organization. Beneficiary communities were supposed to
contribute five percent of the subproject cost. This component was meant to reach about 55,000
vulnerable people.

C. Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management IDA Allocation: US$2.87 million

16.    This component, which targeted 800 communities, was meant to support the
implementation of traditional and non-traditional approaches to peace building, reconciliation
and conflict management. Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management initiated
reconciliation meetings and negotiations between clans or tribes and provided counseling and
psychosocial support for ex-abductees, returnees, gun dropouts, and the receiving communities.
Through these interventions, the project worked to build strong ties and integration within and
between war-torn societies to enhance the communities' capacity to cope with transitional
shocks brought about by the conflict. This component was implemented in three subregions:
Karamoja, Acholi, and West Nile. Beneficiary communities were supposed to contribute five
percent of the subproject cost.



D. Institutional Development--IDA Allocation: US$ 7.80 Million



                                                4
17.    This component aimed to support the: (a) staffing of the NUMU; (b) capacity building
and training for communities and local government staff; (c) information, education, and
communication; (d) monitoring and evaluation/management information systems; and (e)
poverty monitoring and analysis, including identifying and addressing data gaps.

1.6       Revised Components

18.      The project components were not revised.

1.7    Other Significant Changes (in design, scope, and scale, implementation arrangements
and schedule, and funding allocations)

19.   No significant changes were made to the project. However, a number of minor changes
were made during the implementation:

      a. The project was originally designed to cover 18 districts that had been subdivided to 29
         by MTR in 2005. As per government policy, new districts continued to be supported by
         the old ones. However, as expected, new districts demanded their own project
         administrative structures. The resulting tensions between the newly created districts and
         their "mother" local governments were handled through the Project National Policy
         Committee, which was chaired by the Hon. Minister of State Responsible for Northern
         Uganda.

      b. Government counterpart funding was expected to be 10 percent of the total project cost.
         About 35 percent of counterpart funds was paid by the MTR. The project was retrofitted
         to raise Bank financing to 100 percent, effective July 1, 2006, in line with the Country
         Financing Parameters analysis, and made possible through a formal DCA amendment.
         The retrofitting was justified by: (1) government allocation from its FY 2006/07 budget
         of about US$10 million for emergency resettlement of IDPs in Northern Uganda--part
         of these resources would have otherwise been available for NUSAF counterpart funding;
         (2) slow disbursement of counterpart funds, which was seen to be responsible for slow
         project implementation; and (3) the need for the project to flexibly and quickly respond
         to both the dire development needs of the returning IDPs and the high poverty (70
         percent) and vulnerability in the project area.

      c. The project closing date was extended from March 31, 2008 to March 31, 2009, to allow
         for completion of subprojects and evaluation studies. Project resources were fungible
         between project components. That said, project costs for the Vulnerable Groups Support
         (VGS) component increased by 129 percent in response to community demands and the
         high level of poverty and vulnerabilities in Northern Uganda.

      d. About US$ 42,021 of the credit proceeds were uncommitted by the project closing date.
         These resources were refunded by the Government of Uganda to IDA.




                                                 5
2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of
earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations identified, and whether
participatory processes were adequate, as applicable)

20.      Project preparation benefitted from lessons learned from other operations in both
Uganda and the region. The lessons implemented included the need to: (a) start with a pilot
phase to test and finalize operational procedures; (b) respond to demand and systematically
involve clients and stakeholders; (c) mobilize local resources and continue to build local
capacity; (d) use a technically sound implementation unit to coordinate across sectors and
promote autonomy; and (e) input mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability at
district and community levels. The project started with pilot activities in 32 selected community
sites in five sub-regions, where the community needs assessment was carried out as part of the
preparatory exercise. A semi-autonomous unit was set up. Systems to improve transparency and
accountability were put in place, which included publishing all the funds released for
subprojects. A clear and transparent communication strategy was also instituted.

21.     The overall risk rating at project appraisal was moderate. The risks identified were
adequately addressed through appropriate mitigation measures built into the subproject cycle.
The identified risks related to: (a) a return to civil strife in the Acholi and Karamoja subregions;
(b) whether institutional arrangements under decentralization might fail to support community
demands; (c) a lack of transparency and accountability; (d) political interference and rent-
seeking; (e) the weak capacity of District Planning Units to coordinate all activities and actors;
and (f) an unwillingness on the part of community leaders and LAs to work on peace building.

22.     Project preparation was participatory and preceded by a comprehensive Community
Needs Assessment (CNA) that formed the basis for further consultations. A number of
workshops and consultative meetings were held with local government leaders, civil society
organizations, and central government sector staff. Throughout project implementation,
consultations continued to capture lessons and adjust implementation accordingly. For example,
at MTR, it was found necessary to have more focus on vulnerable youth to mitigate future
conflicts. The project also benefitted from a QER review that was rated satisfactory.

2.2     Implementation (including any project changes and restructuring, MTR, Project at
Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable)

23.    Implementation. Project implementation strengthened community empowerment and
decentralized governance in an extremely fragile environment. The community-driven
development (CDD) approach provided a strong basis for building multi-sectoral teams through
an emphasis on empowering the beneficiaries, while at the same time ensuring that the roles and
functions of local governments and the center were aligned to support the articulated
community priorities and development objectives. An emphasis on accountability and
transparency at all levels ensured minimum leakage and strong ownership, which are necessary

                                                 6
conditions for sustainability. Direct financing, a key principle of CDD operations, expedited the
flow of funds and strengthened empowerment by putting money into the hands of the
communities. It freed the technicians at local government levels from managing rules so that
they could concentrate on the technical issues. This approach provided a platform for all sectors
to play their respective roles as they contributed to a common goal defined by both "clients"
(and beneficiaries) and providers.

24.     Project at risk status. The project became problematic one year into implementation.
Beyond the challenges of insecurity, core challenges arose from the difficulty of attracting staff
to reside in the project area and the slow pace of capacity building initiatives with extremely
weak local governments. Challenges included the need for enhanced guidance on project
processes and procedures; initial poor teamwork within the project management unit, and
inadequate follow-through on decisions reached between the Bank and the government. In
response to these challenges, the client and the Bank intensified supervision of the project,
initiated rapid results initiatives that involved local governments, advised and supported the
recruitment of short-term consultants to complement the work of the project management unit,
and agreed with the Project Technical and the Project Policy Committees on intensifying the
guidance of the management unit. These measures put the project back on track.

25.     Mid-term review. The MTR was undertaken in June 2005; two-and-a-half years into
project implementation. At the time, disbursements were only 22 percent. The Bank and the
client took full advantage of the MTR to: (a) address project management challenges, including
hiring a new executive director with a streamlined reporting to the NSC, NPC, and the Rt. Hon.
Prime Minister; (b) reconstitute the composition of the NSC to bring on board CSO and private
sector representatives; (c) computerize the financial management system; (d) strengthen
collaboration between NUSAF and other programs; and (e) improve targeting of IEC messages
to vulnerable groups.

26.     As further discussed under 3.2, the above measures resulted in: (a) empowerment of
conflict-affected communities; (b) improved service delivery in water and education sectors; (c)
better and structured support to vulnerable groups; (d) improved community reconciliation and
conflict management through traditional approaches; and (e) strengthened capacity for conflict-
affected local institutions.

27.    The following key challenges were encountered during implementation of the project:

28.    In- and out-of-conflict environments in parts of the North. Insecurity, especially in
the Acholi and Karamoja subregions, was problematic and affected the speed of project
implementation. Parts of the Acholi subregion (Kitgum and Pader districts) were in conflict for
much of project implementation. (Karamoja was in a state of resource conflict through almost
all of project implementation.) The West Nile subregion was a post-conflict environment
(although it was home to about 75 percent of the refugees from southern Sudan). The Lango sub
region experienced both in- and out-of-conflict situations and the Teso subregion was peaceful


                                                7
at design, but was later infiltrated by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) for a short time. The
GoU adopted a three-prong strategy of military, political, and international legal action against
the rebels. The initiatives resulted in overall peace one year before project closure.

29.     Slow start of the project. A combination of factors contributed to slow project start
including: (a) project effectiveness delay of three months that arose from the untimely
conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the central government and
local governments; (b) OPM delay in completing the recruitment and settlement of MU core
staff in their regional office; (c) intermittent insecurity; (d) delayed execution of the project
preparatory facility (PPF); and (e) the nature of community-demand driven subprojects, which
require some effort to build up the capacity of communities and local institutions.
Implementation picked up and progressed very well after the MTR because of increased Bank
and government supervision.

30.      Capacity gaps in local governments towards the beginning of the project. At design,
weak local government capacity gaps were anticipated. In response, the project complemented
district staff with a technical officer, an accounts assistant, an administrative assistant and a
driver to facilitate project activities and work with existing district staff on project
implementation. These arrangements were insufficient in some local governments because of
very low staffing levels. The project strengthened the Project Management Unit after the MTR
so that it could provide much-needed district guidance and support. Stronger involvement of the
available sector staff at the lower local government levels was encouraged.

31.     Cost variations. A number of CDI subprojects faced budget overruns related to cost
variations. The variations resulted from underestimations in the Bill of Quantities and the use of
blanket-cost ceilings for subprojects in some districts and sub-regions. Furthermore, the project
faced price escalations for materials as a result of inflation. The project provided these
subprojects with variation budgets in order to ensure smooth completion as well as to guarantee
the functionality of the assets established.

32.    Accountability challenges for Community Subproject Management Committees. A
few accountability challenges were encountered, especially in the implementation of community
subprojects. These can mostly be attributed to capture by elites, especially in the remote areas of
Kitgum and Karamoja. In other cases, committee members had to travel long distances for
banking and the purchase of materials, which led to lengthy delays in accounting for project
funds.

33.     A number of measures were put in place to address these accountability challenges,
including: (a) a transparent IEC system; (b) publishing all releases for subprojects; (c) a
collaborative arrangement between NUSAF and anti-corruption agencies; (d) continuous
strengthening of financial management systems and installing independent annual audits over
and above the normal regular audits; and (e) Rapid Results Initiatives to improve transparency
and accountability. This led to the apprehension and prosecution of 15 people who had


                                                8
defrauded communities and the reimbursement of ineligible funds (approximately US$240,000)
to the project special account. These measures set strong examples, promoted transparency in
the project area and ensured that project outcomes were achieved.


2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

34.     M&E Design. The M&E system was highly decentralized, with multisectoral M&E
teams established in each of the 18 districts to enhance local data collection and analysis. While
such decentralization is desirable in principle, in some instances it led to inefficient parallel
collection points and data duplication. The indicators identified to monitor progress toward the
development objectives were adequate, given the available knowledge at appraisal, and the
baseline data was of good quality.

35.     M&E Implementation. The challenges of establishing a reliable and responsive M&E
system were not fully recognized in project design. Following MTR, improvements were made,
with local governments trained in data management and analysis and more standardized data
collection tools put in place. A good balance of qualitative and quantitative evaluations was also
initiated. These improvements allowed NUMU to prepare and widely disseminate quarterly
M&E reports. The preparation and undertaking of the impact evaluation was comprehensive and
informed the ICR.

36.     M&E Utilization. Data from the M&E system have been used extensively for strategy
definition, policy orientation, and resource mobilization, shaping the Northern Uganda Peace
Recovery and Development Plan (2007) and preparing applications for additional external
support.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable)

37.     Procurement performance was satisfactory almost throughout project implementation.
Although community procurement is legal according to the Public Procurement and Disposal of
Assets Act, it had never been implemented in local governments in Northern Uganda. A
simplified procurement and stores manual for use by communities in subproject implementation
was developed and made available for use. This manual has since been adopted by other
projects in the country, including the National Agricultural Advisory Services Project (NAADS)
and Local Government Management and Service Delivery Project. In addition, communities
were trained in procurement practices, procurement supervision, and procurement record
keeping. However, these achievements were not without challenges, the most significant being
the high turnover of procurement staff in the Project Management Unit due to location. These
were initially overcome by using consultants until full-time staff could be obtained.

38.     Financial management performance was mixed across the project area based on the
capacities of local governments. Poor performance occurred in local governments that were

                                                9
extremely hard to reach, including Kitgum and Karamoja. The local governments in the Teso
and West Nile subregions performed well while the Lango subregion was moderate. Challenges
were related to poor financial support systems to communities, inadequate financial
management staff in some districts, and an intermittent supply of electricity that resulted in the
breakdown of the computerized financial management system and long distances to commercial
banks. The project responded to these challenges as already discussed under section 2.2 on
transparency and accountability.
39.     Compliance with both environmental and social safeguards was mixed across the
project. Capacities for implementing the identified subproject specific environmental and social
(including land acquisition) mitigation measures varied from district to district, especially with
the creation of 11 new districts in addition to the original 18. The screening process for both
environmental and social impacts and the ensuing Environmental Management Plan were
mainstreamed into the subproject cycle, right from desk appraisal to monitoring and evaluation.
The project benefitted from the involvement of district environmental officers (in districts
where there were no environmental officers, district forestry officers were used), and the
Uganda National Environmental Management Authority. Support from various IDA safeguard
specialists during the projects, and especially during supervision missions, provided essential
on-the-spot guidance and remedial actions. On the basis of mixed environmental and social
safeguards and moderate financial-management compliance, overall fiduciary compliance is
moderately satisfactory.

2.5    Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, operation and maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up
operation, if applicable)

40.    Post-Completion is rated satisfactory. Seeing the gains made through the community-
driven development approach, and realizing the work remaining to be done at the local level, the
government requested the follow-on operation, NUSAF 2, which became effective on
November 25, 2009. It builds on the localized development processes initiated under NUSAF,
and increased emphasis on improved local governance, participatory processes, improved
technical quality and sustainability of assets created as well as targeted interventions for
vulnerable groups. These interventions derive from the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
and the Peace Recovery and Development Plan (PRDP) for Northern Uganda, which focuses on
promoting the resolution of conflict in the North and fostering social and economic
development in the region.

41.   By the end of the project, 98 percent of the funded subprojects had been completed and
commissioned. The government is following up on the uncompleted subprojects and will
monitor them through NUSAF 2.

42.    NUSAF was implemented through a decentralized framework involving communities,
LAs, NGOs, and the private sector. Attempts were made to build the capacities of the various
stakeholders during the project. The project allowed communities to articulate their priorities.

                                               10
Some of the priorities that emerged outside the menu were linked to the district development
frameworks. Eligible subprojects were derived from a menu that delivered a community good
and were within the sector norms and standards approved by the central government and
supervised by the local government.

43.    NUSAF subprojects initially suffered from lapses in technical quality due to
shortcomings in desk and field appraisal, project costing, and supervision during and after
completion of subprojects. However, NUMU took a number of measures, including hiring
technical supervisors to improve technical quality and implementation of subprojects. For
example, in water subprojects communities were advised to budget for feasibility studies as part
of the subproject costs. Formal systems for community-led maintenance through community
management committees were developed and clear responsibilities articulated. In addition, these
committees were trained in operation and maintenance.

44.    Building on the achievements of the project and other development efforts in Northern
Uganda, the government has allocated in the FY09/10 budget US$50 million annually for the
next three years for development efforts and maintenance of existing infrastructure. These
resources are over and above the regular annual government budget that is allocated to local
governments in Uganda.


3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities and Bank assistance strategy)

45.     The project objectives, design, and implementation were well aligned with the current
Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS 2005­
2009), the Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP 2004­2009) and the Northern
Uganda Peace Recovery and Development Plan (PRDP 2007). The UJAS supports the PEAP's
overarching strategic results, including promoting resolution of the conflict in the North and
fostering social and economic development in the region. The PRDP for Northern Uganda was
designed to provide an overarching framework for post-conflict reconstruction in the wake of
significant security improvements in the region since mid-2006, which derive in part from peace
efforts between the government and the LRA.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including a brief discussion of
causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs and outcomes )

46.      Project key performance indicators are listed in Annex 2. Project results need to be
interpreted against the background of the project operating environment where basic
institutional frameworks to facilitate project implementation were weakened, nonfunctional, or
nonexistent. The outcomes presented below are based on the key performance indicators (KPIs),
as contained in the DCA.

                                              11
47.     Empowerment of conflict-affected communities. Community empowerment was
ensured through a systematic application of participatory mechanisms, monthly public
accountability meetings of each community group benefitting from a subproject, and regular
and well-structured information, education, and communication messages. Communities
submitted 44,131 subproject proposals to local governments, 24,479 (55 percent) of which were
field appraised. Of those appraised, 14,212 (58 percent) were approved. Of those approved,
9,307 (65 percent) were funded. Over all, about 47 percent of the population in Northern
Uganda (against the target of 30 percent) have improved access to social services through
NUSAF.


48.     These outputs resulted in a 732 percent level of satisfaction of beneficiary communities
with community-level outcomes. The CDI recorded the highest satisfaction of 75 percent,
followed by the VGS component at 72 percent, and CRCM at 71 percent. The involvement of
sub-county staff in monitoring and supervision was cited as one of the reasons for the higher
satisfaction, because communities benefitted from improved technical support.

49.    NUSAF explicitly targeted women among the project's beneficiaries and defined
minimum quotas for women's representation on strategic project committees. For example, the
World Bank Gender Audit Report3 (2007) documented that in Soroti, women constituted 70
percent of the 7,201 beneficiaries of the VGS component. Their share of the VGS grant was
estimated to be more than 70 percent of total funds disbursed. In the Lira district, a random
analysis of the composition of 70 CPMCs showed that women constituted, on average, 41
percent of the committees' membership, exceeding the 30 percent minimum. By clearly
defining women as one of the target groups in the project and defining quotas on committees,
women's participation was promoted.

50.     The number of households utilizing subprojects was 1,076,000 by the end of the project
period, against the target of 200,000. The difference is attributed to: (a) exchange rate gains of
about US$20 million that allowed the project to reach more vulnerable communities (the
original component budget was US$17.89 million, while actual expenditures were US$41.06
million); and (b) improved targeting of IEC messages to vulnerable groups.

51.     Community empowerment is also linked to the outcome on functional CPMCs. The
proportion of functional CPMCs stood at 98 percent by the end of the project period against the
target of 80 percent. This was achieved by training CPMC members on community dynamics,
record keeping, operation and maintenance, and the subproject cycle processes.


2
    Office of the Prime Minister (2007), Community Scorecard Report.

3
    World Bank (2007), Gender Portfolio Audit Report.



                                                        12
52.      Service delivery improved. The project supported 1,277 education subprojects4. To
increase functionality of these educational facilities, a package was implemented that included
pit latrines (separated for boys and girls), a water tank for each school, desks, chairs, and
laboratories. According to project M&E data, and the Impact Evaluation Report5 (2009), the
project contributed to better access to an improved learning environment by reducing classroom
congestion, which previously stood at 150 students per class, by 12.8 percent against the target
of 15 percent. This target was not achieved because community demand shifted to teachers'
houses. In addition, some of the project resources for this component were used to pay for cost
variations arising from material cost inflation.

53.    The improvement in the learning environment contributed to an increased enrollment of
pupils in NUSAF communities over non-NUSAF communities (i.e., 111 percent versus 6
percent). This difference was found to be statistically significant and could be explained by the
functionality package that was implemented and the availability of teachers. The number of
teachers in primary schools that benefitted from NUSAF was also found to have increased more
than those in non-NUSAF schools, with a difference of 1.5 teachers per school because of the
provision of teachers' houses.

54.      Service delivery also improved in the water sector through implementation of 1,031
water subprojects6. The M&E data and the Project Impact Evaluation Report indicate that the
proportion of communities with improved access to safe water sources increased by 23 percent
(this is above the baseline of 71 percent) against the target of 20 percent. The impact of the
project on improved water sources was also found to be statistically significant. In some
districts like Yumbe, NUSAF increased access to safe water coverage from 27 to 44 percent
from July 2004 to June 2005. This achievement was attributed to the clearly articulated needs
from the communities to reduce the time women take to fetch water. Other benefits indicated in
the qualitative aspect of the impact evaluation include reduced congestion at water points, time
saved for other productive work, reduced conflicts resulting from quarrels at water sources, and
reduced theft of equipment used to draw water.


55.    Better and structured support to vulnerable groups. The VGS component reached
223,104 individuals against the target of 55,000. Vulnerable groups supported included: (a)
17,956 women, (b) 13,542 orphans, (c) 77,139 youth, (d) 87,023 IDPs and (e) 5,812 HIV-


4
 2,693 classrooms, 40 dormitories, 7,650 desks, 63 science laboratories, 9 libraries, 20 nurseries, 19 vocational
skills training centers, and 1,221 teachers' houses

5
 Uganda Bureau of Statistics, Economic Policy Research Centre, and Cornell University, "Northern Uganda
Social Action Fund Impact Evaluation Report," (2009).

6
    1074 boreholes, 9 protected springs, 11 piped water schemes and 2 valley tanks.



                                                         13
infected and affected persons who received a number of productive assets7 to improve their
livelihoods. The impact evaluation credits the project for contributing to revamping agricultural
activities in the region through the provision of productive assets. These achievements are partly
explained by government IEC messages that targeted VGS groups. The achievements can also
be attributed to the collaborative arrangements among NUSAF, the World Food Program
(WFP), National Agricultural Advisory Services Project (NAADS), the Uganda HIV/AIDS
Support Project, and the Amnesty Commission's support to returnees. The collaborative
arrangement not only leveraged project resources, but also allowed the exchange of technical
staff in support of communities.

56.     The collaboration between NUSAF and WFP fish farming is an illustrative example.
While the WFP provided technical expertise on breeding fingerlings and fishpond management,
NUSAF provided the needed community mobilization and resources to procure the fingerlings.
The impact evaluation undertaken by the WFP showed that fish farming was a profitable8
activity. Collaboration with NAADS focused on supporting communities to improve the
profitability of vulnerable group productive assets, while collaboration with Uganda HIV/AIDS
Support and the Amnesty Commission focused on assisting NUSAF to improve targeting of
people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS and returnees, respectively.

57.     Youth were targeted as a special vulnerable group, trained in livelihood skills, and
provided with toolkits to start up their own businesses. A separate randomized evaluation is yet
to be concluded. Interim results, however, indicate that project beneficiaries fared significantly
better than non-beneficiaries in a number of socioeconomic and psychosocial variables. For
example, in terms of income, NUSAF beneficiaries on average reported9 18 percent more
income per month than the control group, and this was found to be statistically significant at a 5
percent level.

58.      Community reconciliation and conflict management improved. The project trained
1,309 peace promoters, provided 458 returnees with reintegration support, implemented 652
structured events (including games, sports, and drama and peace meetings) and supported 3
institutions that promoted traditional reconciliation mechanisms. Communities benefitting from
reconciliation efforts numbered 845, against the target of 800. According to the qualitative
findings of the Impact Evaluation Report, community reconciliation and conflict management
support was credited with contributing to the resettlement of abductees and displaced persons,


7
 36,631 heifers, 8,657 breeding bulls, 22,076 goats, 8,386 pigs, 114,615 chicks, 9,962 bee hives, 177 fish ponds,
22,748 oxen, 8,936 ox ploughs, and training 6,300 youth in livelihood skills.

8
 Twenty-two percent of the respondents interviewed used the increased income to pay school fees; 19.4 percent for
health and medical, and clothing and shoes, respectively; 16.7 percent for transport (to buy fish feed from a sub-
county); 6 percent for maize meal and flour; and 2.7 percent for buying fish feed, rice, roots, and tubers.

9
    World Bank (2009); Preliminary Results from the Youth Opportunities Program Tracking Survey.



                                                        14
the resolution of latent conflicts among communities, and the capacity building of cultural
institutions, NGOs, and CBOs.

59.      The capacity of conflict-affected local institutions was strengthened as follows:

      a. Local governments. Capacity building of local governments was implemented through
         training, workshops and seminars, learning by doing, and hiring additional staff to
         complement the technical capacity of local governments. Local government technical
         staff were trained on project principals; inclusive planning; basic bookkeeping;
         community procurement; management and administration of participatory approaches;
         and given basic skills to assess local environmental effects of subprojects and the
         subproject cycle processes. The training was tailored towards the implementation
         requirements of the sub-projects and the skills required to support communities. This
         training was undertaken by NUMU staff who had technical skills in Financial
         Management, Procurement, Information Education and Communication, Monitoring and
         Evaluation, and Rural Participatory Appraisal.

      b. CSOs. The project supported three traditional institutions with financial resources and
         the preparation of peace materials. These institutions in turn trained communities in
         conflict resolution and held reconciliation meetings and ceremonies. About 1,309 peace
         promoters were trained against the target of 500 to support community reconciliation
         mechanisms. The project also supported 267 CSOs against the target of 140.

3.3      Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return; cost effectiveness--e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons, and Financial Rate of Return)


60.     NUSAF's efficiency in delivering the subprojects can be assessed by an analysis of cost-
effectiveness. With subproject costs for NUSAF (including community contributions) being
compared to those of similar projects implemented by other donors and NGOs in Northern
Uganda. The key measure of cost-effectiveness is the cost per beneficiary or unit of each
subproject constructed. The analysis assumes the same quality and durability of assets
constructed because subprojects were constructed following the same sector norms and
standards. This assumption was validated through field visits undertaken during the ICR
mission to selected subprojects in the Soroti district. Given this assumption, projects with lower
costs per beneficiary or unit area are considered to be more cost effective.

61.     The analysis of cost-effectiveness also included benchmarking the unit costs of
infrastructure subprojects using standard unit costs to assess whether NUSAF subprojects were
cost-effective when compared to sector norms and standards.

62.     Results from the analysis indicate that on average NUSAF subprojects were cost-
effective compared to other projects. NUSAF constructed community infrastructure costs were
on average US$38 per beneficiary per year. This is significantly lower compared to the per

                                                   15
capita costs estimated at over US$66 per beneficiary for subprojects implemented by other
development partners and NGOs. Detailed results are presented in Annex 3.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and
efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

63.    Relevance. The five broad outcomes indicated in 3.2 remain relevant. Principles of
community contribution and procedures for involving communities in planning, design, and
implementation were emphasized. For example, PMCs were established to supervise
communities in building schools and hand them over to school management committees at
completion. Community water management committees were provided skills for borehole
maintenance. Skills were also transferred to district staff, especially in appraisal implementation
and monitoring of subprojects for purposes of maintenance and sustainability. Traditional
leaders were facilitated to champion community reconciliation efforts through customary
approaches.

64.     Efficiency. Project activities and outcomes remain efficient. The project transferred the
responsibility of managing contracts and control of resources to the local level. This local
responsibility had sufficient supervision and technical assistance provided by the district and
subcounty technical staff. The project also emphasized community participation and the
maintenance and sustainability of community investments. For example, all CPMCs were
trained in subproject maintenance and sustainability.


3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts (if any, where not previously
covered or to amplify discussion)

Poverty Impacts

65.     At a higher level of the project hierarchy, poverty in Northern Uganda fell from 67.5
percent in 2004 (Northern Uganda Survey 2004) to 57.4 percent in 2008 (Northern Uganda
Survey 2008). Although this reduction may not be attributed to NUSAF, statistical analysis
found that for those moving in and out of poverty, households living in communities with
NUSAF-implemented projects were less likely to be chronically poor (36 percent) than those
living in areas with no NUSAF support (46 percent). NUSAF is also credited with a
strengthened community focus on agriculture as a source of livelihood. This shift can be partly
attributed to the return of peace in the project area, but for a larger part to the provision of farm
inputs and restocking through the VGS component.

Gender Impacts

66.     According to the World Bank Gender Portfolio Audit Report (2007), NUSAF was found
to be gender responsive. NUSAF recognized differences between women and men and
identified strategies to address these disparities. For example, NUSAF established a minimum

                                                 16
of 30 percent membership for women on the community project management committees. This
was found to have enhanced women's participation in subproject identification and
management.


67.     While there were positive gender impacts, there were also challenges. Women's
participation in projects may have increased demands on their time. In order to strengthen its
gender outcomes, implementation of NUSAF should have taken into consideration the fact that
women experience difficulties combining responsibilities in the projects with their other
household responsibilities and chores. This was not sufficiently addressed in the project design.

Social Development Impacts

68.     Through the CRCM component, the following social development issues can be
attributed to NUSAF interventions:

   a. Some communities remade themselves into civil society organizations and ran
      socioeconomic activities through VGS and CDI funding.
   b. Youth received training in livelihood skills and support from toolkits to start their
      businesses.
   c. Formerly abducted children in the Acholi sub-region reintegrated into society; inter-tribal
      and inter-clan dialogue and peace in the Karamoja sub-region and Yumbe district was
      promoted; and the capacity of traditional and cultural institutions, such as the Iteso
      Cultural Union, the Acholi Traditional Institution, and the Lango Cultural Foundation, to
      manage conflict and community development was enhanced.
   d. Tensions that emanated from differences among local leaders eased: These differences
      had threatened to erode values of good governance and commitment towards
      development initiatives.


Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development)

69.      The project made the following institutional achievements:

      a. Local-government level. Local government technical planning and district executive
         committees were trained in project processes and systems. These committees made
         decisions about project resources to ensure that communities had the necessary technical
         inputs; appraised subproject requests based on packages and norms provided from the
         center; and certified the assets created to ensure adherence to standards at that level.
         Transparency and accountability was promoted through structured IEC messages and
         collaborative working arrangements among anti-corruption institutions, the local
         governments, and CSOs. This "learning by doing" approach built the capacity of local
         governments. Based on the lessons from NUSAF, all local governments are now


                                                17
       allowed to finance community demand-driven initiatives through their district block
       grants.

   b. Communities. Communities made a commitment to participate fully in the decision-
      making process. They mobilized themselves, selected a committee to lead and manage
      the activity they prioritized, adhered to the rules of accessing funds, ensured that
      contracted agencies delivered on contracts, and were accountable for fund use through
      the subproject management committee. The committees kept the community as a whole
      informed at public meetings and engendered transparency in decision making.

   c. Depository of information on Northern Uganda. While national statistical surveys
       have been regular in Uganda since the early 1990s, Northern Uganda was never
       surveyed, which made planning for the region difficult. NUSAF supported the first
       comprehensive survey in 2004. Another survey was undertaken in 2008 to provide
       evidence of the impact of the project. The project is also doing a randomized
       experimentation study, which is the first of its kind in the region, to discern the impact
       of the project activities on youth employment. The National Statistical Bureau
       conducted these surveys, which helped build the capacity of the national statistical
       system. In addition, a number of other studies were done, including (1) a comparative
       analysis of NUSAF and the Second Local Government Development Project; (2) a
       Community Needs Assessment; (3) a Beneficiary Survey; and (4) studies using
       community scorecard approaches.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

70.     One of the positive unintended impacts of NUSAF was the creation of collaborative
arrangements with other projects and stakeholders working in Northern Uganda. This helped to
improve project results. NUSAF initiated signing implementation protocols with other agencies,
such as the WFP, NAADS, the Uganda Aids Control Project, and the Amnesty Commission to
improve the efficiency of technical support offered to the communities. For example, under
these protocols, NUSAF beneficiaries on livestock subprojects were linked to other NAADS
farmers' groups to enhance sharing experiences on livestock management. Furthermore, the
WFP partnered with NUSAF in fish-farming subprojects where the WFP provided food for
labor used in constructing fishponds while NUSAF provided funding for the purchase of the
fingerlings and fry.
71.     The project received a US$2.6 million Japanese Social Development Grant for
supporting youth activities. Under this grant, youth employment opportunities that included
livelihood skill trainings, coaching, and mentoring were piloted. Youth groups were also
supported with tool kits. Implementation was aided by World Vision Uganda in collaboration
with World Vision International. Collaborative arrangements were forged with youth or
vocational skills institutions, which helped provide technical skills for training the youth
subprojects. About 3,000 youth graduated under this initiative and it was scaled up under
NUSAF.


                                              18
3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
core ICR, required for ILI)

Refer to Annex 5.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

72.    The risk to sustainability of the development outcomes is rated moderate. The project
enjoyed the commitment of the Government of Uganda. The prevailing peaceful environment in
Northern Uganda accompanied by the return of IDPs to their original homes and the associated
community reconciliation efforts are likely to contribute to sustainable project outcomes.

73.     The project improved the quality of school infrastructure, including more and better
classrooms and sanitary facilities. The majority of the built or rehabilitated education facilities
are reported to be in good working condition by the supervision missions. The Impact
Evaluation found that a rise in staffing accompanied the improvements in infrastructure. These
infrastructure investments also led to higher primary enrollment rates. With improved peace
now prevailing in the North, these achievements are likely to be sustained.

74.     Rehabilitated or built water and sanitation facilities were also reported in be in good
working condition. Water user committees were trained in operation and maintenance.
Coverage rates were higher especially in internally displaced people's camps. Access to latrines
was also reported to have improved in beneficiaries' communities, although there was no
evidence of a reduced incidence of diarrhea. Overall, water and sanitation facilities are likely to
be sustained.

75.     On the vulnerable group component, the impact evaluation credited the project for
laying a firm foundation for revamping agricultural activities in Northern Uganda by providing
productive assets to communities. Notable assets include oxen and ox ploughs-- the traditional
means of opening agricultural land in the project districts. Managing these assets is a long
tradition of the people of Northern Uganda. Accordingly, these assets are likely to be sustained.

76.     However, in spite of all these efforts to ensure the sustainability of development
outcomes, any disruption of the existing stable and peaceful environment in Northern Uganda
poses a significant risk to subproject outcomes. The follow-up project, NUSAF 2, has also rated
the risk as moderate because of similar concerns.




                                                19
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design,
implementation, and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

77.     Bank performance during design is rated satisfactory. The project was designed in
response to the government's request, in line with the CAS and government priorities and for a
targeted program to benefit the poor in Northern Uganda. Project preparation was premised on a
Community Needs Assessment Study that was initiated and supported by the Bank. The study
prioritized community involvement in the project design. Wide consultations with local and
central government officials, traditional leaders, and civil society organizations were carried out
to ensure client ownership. A statistical baseline survey to allow for statistical impact evaluation
was also undertaken. These activities were supported by a PPF that provided government
resources for project design.

78.     The Bank staff had diverse technical skills, including sector and technical expertise,
which assisted the government with major design issues and ensured consistency with Bank
policies. The team studied the operating environment and articulated the possible risks and
proposed mitigation measures. A quality-at-entry review was organized and project preparation
rated satisfactory. At the request of the government, the team also implemented a Japanese
Social Development Grant that piloted youth employment opportunities in Northern Uganda.
Lessons from this pilot led to scaling up youth employment activities under the VGS
component.

Quality of Supervision (including fiduciary and safeguard policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

79.     Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank technical component included skills in
procurement, financial management, safeguard specialists, and sector staff that provided regular
on-the-ground support and supervision. The team's presence in the country office was a strong
factor in turning the project around and facilitating implementation. The Country Management
Unit and the Sector Management Unit worked together and supported the team appropriately.
For example, at MTR the Bank management facilitated the difficult dialogue on the need to
change the leadership of the project.

80.     The Bank did a good job building the capacity of the client staff to implement a project
of this nature in a rather fluid environment. Bank staff was instrumental in providing technical
advice for project management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, financial management,
and helping to improve transparency and accountability. For example, Bank staff (a) initiated
and followed up on rapid results initiatives to improve disbursements, accountability, and
subproject completions; (b) initiated annual independent financial management reviews over

                                                20
and above the prescribed independent auditing processes; (c) initiated collaborating
arrangements with the anti-corruption agencies to improve transparency and accountability; (d)
initiated and supported collaboration arrangements with other projects and stakeholders
(NAADS, the Amnesty Commission, the WFP, and the Uganda Aids Control Project) to
improve project results; (e) refined the PDO indicators to improve results measurement; (f)
conducted team-building exercises for the Management Unit and local governments to improve
project management; and (g) initiated and supported the baseline and end-line surveys and
impact evaluation studies to measure project impact. The Bank also prepared the mid-term
review paper that formed the basis for the Bank's MTR recommendations.

81.     On financing, the Bank responded to the GoU's request for 100 percent after MTR to
allow for quick results and to respond to the needs of IDPs. Overall, the Bank provided NUSAF
with the necessary technical support and an environment that allowed management to apply
project procedures flexibly.

82.    The Bank team also maintained its focus on the broader picture of preparing the PRDP,
supplying technical assistance to support the process, providing the power and ability to
mobilize other development partners, and lobbying for additional budgetary resources for
Northern Uganda's reconstruction.

83.     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance. The overall Bank performance is
satisfactory. This is based on a satisfactory QER and supervision rating.

5.2    Borrower Performance

Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.     The GoU showed a high level of commitment and support for the project, both at the
technical and political level. The policy direction and guidance provided by the government at
all levels were instrumental to the successful implementation of the project. As the overall
executing agency, the OPM enabled the project to weather the storm of a difficult political
terrain. The commitment and leadership provided at district and local government levels was
also very critical. The government took a risk by allowing communities to directly access
project funds given the conflict situation that existed in the North at the beginning of the project.
However, such commitment paid off, given the project's successful outcomes.
85.     That said, there were initial challenges related to: (a) delayed project effectiveness; (b)
slow recruitment of staff; (c) initial inadequate guidance by the project steering committee to
the project Management Unit; and (d) intermittent lapses in transparency and accountability in
some local governments. However, these challenges were largely corrected as project
implementation proceeded, and after MTR the project remained on track. In view of the initial
project implementation challenges, government performance is rated moderately satisfactory.



                                                 21
Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

86.      The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. NUMU was located
in the Acholi subregion, which was characterized as a "hard to reach, hard to stay" area at the
time. This notwithstanding, NUMU was responsible for preparing all project documents and
facilitating all Government and IDA reviews. The agency staff had diverse technical skills
including procurement, financial management, and safeguard specialists; sector employees
provided regular support to all implementing partners. The staff made every effort to ensure that
the project adhered to IDA and GoU guidelines. The agency trained local government staff,
communities, and CSOs in project processes, spearheaded information dissemination, and
championed the implementation of robust M&E systems. An extensive outreach program, using
print and electronic media and traditional forms of cultural expression, was employed to send
messages to leaders and the local population about project opportunities and procedures for
participation.

87.     NUMU's semi-autonomous position and location within the project operational area
signaled the project's cognizance of local institutional realities, allowed flexibility in decision
making, and permitted technical support to various stakeholders during project implementation.
In addition, the agency played a key role in linking community-level institutions to large-scale
agencies for longitudinal technical and financial support of community initiatives. The protocols
signed with agencies such as NAADS, the WFP, and the Amnesty Commission attest to the
linkages.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
88.     Overall the project achieved its targets. The implementing agency followed project
procedures and guidelines within a very difficult environment. However, factors that included
(a) effectiveness delays; (b) full composition of the Project National Steering Committee, (c)
and lapses in transparency and accountability, were in the government's purview and should
have been controlled. This is based on the marginally satisfactory performance of the
government and the satisfactory performance of the implementing agency.

6.      Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide, general application)

89.     Communities in a post-conflict environment can identify, plan, manage, and
monitor social investments that are well suited to their needs. Experience from project
implementation demonstrated that when there is adequate support and guidance, communities
(including those affected by conflict) can participate effectively in local development. At the
beginning of the project, the GoU took a risk in entrusting communities in Northern Uganda
with the management of community development, financial accounting, and other public assets.
Yet this proved successful because communities were able to effectively engage in procuring
community assets. Direct financing of communities reduced transaction costs, strengthened

                                                22
local institutions, and contributed to strengthening management and increasing the capacity of
local communities. Based on these lessons, the Ministry of Local Government has
mainstreamed CDD operations into decentralized service delivery mechanisms. Districts and
sub-counties can now disburse funds to communities based on demands that meet sector norms
and standards.

90.     Bottom-up accountability can be strengthened in a fragile environment.
Transparency and Accountability can be a challenge in hard-to-reach areas. However,
participatory involvement of communities in sub-project management, public sharing of
expenditures at the local level and follow-up on misuse of funds resulted in improved
accountability and transparency. NUSAF 2 aims to further strengthen bottom-up accountability
through the TAAC subcomponent.

91.    To a large extent, the project's targeting mechanism was effective, mostly due to
active community participation at all stages of the subproject cycle. One of the key lessons
from this project is the challenge of targeting transient/nomadic communities. For this reason,
and with the exception of subprojects that were implemented through the missionary NGOs, the
Karamoja sub-region remained a challenge throughout the life of the project.

92.     In an in- and out-of-conflict environment, placement of the executing agency
matters. Placement of the executing agency under the OPM made difficult decision-making
processes possible, allowed for mediation between local governments, and facilitated the
flexible approach to project implementation.

93.    For activities with no wide lessons from the region, experimental design is critical.
For instance, the YOP randomized experimental design is likely to deliver robust lessons that
can be used in other regions with similar youth unemployment challenges.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies and Partners

7.1 Borrower/Implementing Agencies

94.    The borrower found the draft ICR acceptable and provided minor comments as
contained in Annex 8. Where appropriate, these comments have been incorporated in this final
version.

7.2 Co-financiers

N/A

7.3 Other Partners and Stakeholders (e.g., NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A


                                              23
24
Annex 1.       Project Costs and Financing

Table 1A.1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million Equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
          Components                                     Estimate (US$
                                   (US$ Millions)                                Appraisal
                                                            Millions)
Community Development Initiatives          77.77                 53.04             68.20%

Vulnerable Group Support                   17.89                 41.06             229.39%
Community Reconciliation And
                                            2.22                  2.87             129.28%
Conflict Management
Institutional Development                   8.96                  7.80             87.05%


Total Baseline Cost                       106.83                124.76            116.75%
Physical Contingencies                      6.68                  1.64             24.51%
Price Contingencies                        20.03                  4.93             24.51%
Total Project Costs                       133.54                131.33
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                  0.00               0%
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                  0.00             0%
Total Financing Required                  133.54                131.33             98.32%




Table 1A.2: Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of Co-                                 Percentage of
           Source of Funds                               Estimate       Estimate
                                         financing                                    Appraisal
                                                      (US$ Millions) (US$ Millions)
Borrower                                              13.30          4.57           34.38%
Local Communities                                     20.20          6.57           32.51%
International Development Association                 100.00         120.19         120.19%




                                              25
Annex 2.            Key Performance Indicators


Table 2A.1: Key Performance Indicators
             Objective                        Key Performance Indicators
                                                                                                Baseline    Target       2009
     Project Development                              PDO Indicator
            Objective
To empower communities in
18 districts in northern Uganda      1. Level of community                satisfaction   with
                                                                                                 N/A10                  73%11
by enhancing their capacity to       subproject outcomes
systematically identify,
prioritize, and plan for their       2. Percentage of functional PMCs                             N/A                   80%12
needs within their own value
systems and implement                3. Proportion of population with access to
sustainable development                                                                            70        20%         23%*
                                     improved water sources
initiatives that improve                                                                          150
socioeconomics                       4. Proportion of population with increased access          students
                                                                                                             15%        12.8%*
                                     to an improved learning environment                        per class

Intermediate Outcomes                Outcome Indicators

                                     1. Number of households utilizing subproject
                                                                                                  N/A       200,000   1,110,73113
                                     facilities

                                     2. Number of vulnerable persons in receipt of                N/A       55,000     223,104*
                                     assistance

                                     3. Number of communities benefitting from                    N/A        800          845
                                     NGO/CBO reconciliation efforts
Project Outputs                      Output Indicators
Output 1:Socioeconomic
infrastructure provided and in       1.Proportion of subprojects completed on time                N/A        70%          65%
use                                  (12 months)                                                                      (estimate)14
                                                                                                  N/A
                                     2. Proportion     of    facilities     maintained    by                 80%         85%*
                                     communities


10
     There were no subprojects before the project started.

11
     Source: Community score card report, December 2007

12
     Inferred from percentage of completed subprojects

13
  Calculated from sum total of all potential beneficiaries (derived from national standards and norms multiplied by
number of investments) divided by 5--the average household size

14
  Although the aggregate subproject completion rate is 98%, it is estimated that 65% were completed within a
timeframe of 12 months.



                                                             26
             Objective                       Key Performance Indicators
                                                                                         Baseline    Target         2009
     Project Development                            PDO Indicator
           Objective
Other non-PDO output                                                                       N/A      No target   1,440,430*
indicators                         3. Population with access to improved health                     set            (20.3%)
                                   services
                                                                                           N/A
                                   4. Population with improved access to production                 No target    1,083,500*
                                   and community infrastructure                                       set          15.3%

                                   5. Proportion of the population reached by the          N/A        30%           78%
                                   project

Output 2: Vulnerable groups        1. Number of CSOs facilitated and strengthened          N/A        140           267*
receiving support from
activities they implement and
                                   2. Number of subprojects          developed    and      N/A       2,500         5,312*
manage in the 18 districts of
                                   managed by vulnerable groups
the North
                                                                                                    Max
Output 3: Efficient, effective,    1. Rejection rate of subprojects at field appraisal     N/A                  65%15
                                                                                                    25%
and more responsive                stage
institutions
                                   2. Proportion of communities trained to maintain        N/A
                                                                                                      80%           95%*
                                   facilities by EOP
                                                                                           N/A
                                   3. Proportion of timely district tranching of funds
                                                                                                      80%       65% (estimate)
                                   to subproject implementers

                                   4. Proportion of women involved in CRCM                 N/A
                                                                                                      30%       About 45%16
                                   activities and training

                                   5. Proportion of communities aware of the project       N/A
                                                                                                      90%           94%17
                                   by year 3

Output 4: Communities              1. Number of Community Reconciliation and
                                                                                           N/A
reached with reconciliation        Conflict Management tools (e.g., IEC packages,                      10               5*
and conflict management            handbooks) identified, developed, and in use
support
                                   2. Number of specific activities (e.g., training,
                                                                                           N/A
                                   supplies) targeted at traditional institutions for                2,000         2,089*
                                   reconciliation EOP

                                   3. Number of Community Reconciliation
                                                                                           N/A
                                   Promoters trained and deployed in subregions by                    500          1,309*
                                   end of project

15
     Deduced from subproject attrition trends (source: NUMU database)

16
     This is a proportion of the estimated number of CRCM beneficiaries.

17
     Listenership Survey (2008)



                                                         27
           Objective                          Key Performance Indicators
                                                                                              Baseline       Target       2009
    Project Development                               PDO Indicator
         Objective
                                    4. Number of communities supported by
                                    reconciliation-related NGOs, CBOs, and other                N/A            800        845*
                                    agencies by end of project
                                    5. Proportion of subprojects completed and in use
                                                                                                N/A           80%       832 (98%)*
                                    by end of project

* Denotes that source of information is NUMU administrative records. Computations derived from national standards and
norms multiplied by number of investments.




                                                            28
Annex 3.      Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

3A.1 Cost-Effectiveness Analysis

A limited cost-effectiveness and efficiency analysis was undertaken by comparing the actual
costs of constructing community social infrastructure such as school blocks, community health
clinics, and wards under NUSAF I. These costs were compared with those of other similar
projects implemented by donors and NGOs in Northern Uganda. The key measure of cost-
effectiveness is the cost per beneficiary of each infrastructure constructed. Assuming the same
quality and durability of assets constructed,18 projects with lower costs per beneficiary are said
to be more cost-effective.

Results from the analysis, as shown in table 4A.1, indicate that on average NUSAF costs are
cost-effective compared to other projects. On average, NUSAF constructed community
infrastructure was about US$38.96 per beneficiary per year, benefitting over two million
households in total. This is certainly much lower than the per capita costs estimated in table
4A.1, with an average cost per beneficiary of US$66.07. NUSAF's cost-effectiveness could
largely be due to the community capacity building and experiences gained during the past five
years of NUSAF's implementation of the first SFI project in Uganda.


Table 3A.1: Direct Costs of Infrastructure Constructed by Various Donor/NGO-Funded Projects
in Northern Uganda

                                                                  Primary        Total Indicative    Cost/Person
                                                  Funded        Beneficiaries    Costs (US$)         (US$)
                      Name                        SPs/Units
 Water Sector         Number of boreholes             1,074           322,200        8,766,555.72           27.21
 Sanitation           Pit latrines                      763             3,815        1,440,503.84          377.59
 Education Sector     Number of classrooms            2,693           188,510       61,616,496.95          326.86
                      Number of toilet stances           32               960          302,072.42          314.66
                      Number of teachers'
                      houses                           1,221             6,105      17,574,983.97        2,878.79
                      Number of laboratories              63             3,780       1,798,475.32          475.79
                      Number of maternity
                      facilities                          15          300,000          351,857.37            1.17
 Community            Number of community
 Infrastructure       roads                               57          285,000          860,035.74            3.02
                      Number of community
                      centers                             59          295,000        1,631,252.77            5.53
 Storage              Number of produce                    5           25,000          164,370.99            6.57

18
   It is assumed that community infrastructure is constructed using the same sector norms and standards--as such,
there should not be wide differences in quality and durability.



                                                       29
                                                                    Primary       Total Indicative     Cost/Person
                                                   Funded         Beneficiaries   Costs (US$)          (US$)
                        Name                       SPs/Units
 Warehouses             stores
 Total                                                                1,430,370           94,506,605           66.07

Source: Mugisha, 2008



Table 3A.2: Project Output/Cost Ratio
                                                            # of             Total Cost
 Sector           Subproject           # Completed          Beneficiaries    (US$)         Cost/Beneficiary
 Water and
 Sanitation       boreholes                         987           296,400
                  protected springs                  11              2,600
                  piped water                         9              1,800
                  valley tank                         2            10,000
                                       Subtotal                   310,800
 Education        classrooms                       2,693          188,510
                  desks                            7,650           22,950
                  toilets                            32               960
                  teachers' houses                 1,221             1,221
                  laboratories                       63              3,780
                  libraries                           9               720
                  girls' dormitories                 33              3,200
                  VTC                                19              1,330
                  nurseries                          20               600
                                       Subtotal                   223,271
 Health           HC II facilities                   41           220,000
                  HC IV facilities                    1            20,000
                  Maternity
                  facilities                         12           300,000
                  fencing                             3            15,000
                                       Subtotal                   555,000
                                       CDI total                1,089,071    49,456,022                45.41
 Community
 Infrastructure   community roads                    80           430,000
                  bridges                            14            80,000
                  culverts                            6            30,000
                  community
                  centers                            52           305,000
                                       Subtotal                   845,000
 Production       cattle dip tanks                    8            60,000
                  community                          11            65,000


                                                           30
                                                          # of             Total Cost
 Sector          Subproject          # Completed          Beneficiaries    (US$)        Cost/Beneficiary
                 markets
                 produce stores                      5           30,000
                 abattoirs                           1             5,000
                 animal traction                   41            12,900


                                     VGS Total                1,017,900    30,690,372             30.15
                                     Grand Total19            2,106,971    82,097,088             38.96




19
   The difference between the grand total and the sum of CDI and VGS is the cost for CRCM subprojects. Data
obtained from NUMU FM records. The ratios are computed at the component level due to lack of disaggregation of
the sector and subproject type level.



                                                         31
Annex 4.      Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Table 4A.1: Task Team Members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Gladys Akurut Alupo           Team Assistant                         AFMUG
                              Senior Social Development
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo                                                 AFTCS
                              Specialist
Serigne Omar Fye              Consultant                             AFTH2
Madhur Gautam                 Lead Economist                         AFTAR
Barbara Kasura Magezi Ndamira Public Sector Specialist               AFTPR
Ida Manjolo                   Social Protection Specialist           AFTH1
Prasad C. Mohan               Chair, Staff Association               WBGSA
Rosemary Mugasha              Team Assistant                         AFMUG
Norbert O. Mugwagwa           Operations Adviser                     HDNED
Innocent Mulindwa             E T Consultant                         AFTH1
Grace Nakuya Musoke Munanura Procurement Specialist                  AFTPC
Samuel Dawuna Mutono          Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist   ETWAF
Maimuna Nalubega              Consultant                             ETWAF
Suleiman Namara               Senior Social Protection Specialist    AFTH1
Wilson Onyang Odwongo         Rural Development Specialist           AFTAR
Peter Okwero                  Senior Health Specialist               AFTH1
Richard Olowo                 Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
John Jaramogi Oloya           Senior Rural Development Specialist    AFTAR
Martin Onyach-Olaa            Senior Urban Specialist                AFTU1
Mirey Ovadiya                 Senior Operations Officer              AFTH2
Krishna Pidatala              Senior Operations Officer              CITPO
Peace K. Tukamuhabwa          Program Assistant                      AFMUG
                              Senior Financial Management
Patrick Piker Umah Tete                                              AFTFM
                              Specialist




                                              32
Table 4A.2: Staff Time and Cost
                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project
Cycle                                            US$ Thousands (Incl. Travel
                         # of Staff Weeks
                                                    and Consultant Costs)
Lending
  FY94                                                      2.05
  FY95                                                      9.73
  FY96                                                     13.95
  FY97                                                      2.54
  FY98                                                     52.84
  FY99                                                     45.83
  FY00                          25                        125.28
  FY01                          42                         88.17
  FY02                          86                        295.25
  FY03                          23                         76.95
  FY04                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                      0.00
       Total:                  176                        712.59
Supervision/ICR
  FY94                                                      0.00
  FY95                                                      0.00
  FY96                                                      0.00
  FY97                                                      0.00
  FY98                                                      0.00
  FY99                                                      2.83
  FY00                                                      0.17
  FY01                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                      0.15
  FY03                          40                        144.29
  FY04                          47                        170.83
  FY05                          87                        251.35
  FY06                          56                        142.05
  FY07                          43                        112.95
  FY08                          35                        107.29
  FY09                          18                          0.00
       Total:                                             931.91




                                             33
Annex 5.      Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

1.     A number of community studies were commissioned during the implementation of
NUSAF. These studies included the beneficiary survey, the project impact evaluation study, the
NUSAF Listenership survey, and the YOP evaluation. This section highlights the main findings
from each of these studies.

5A.1 Summary of the Community Beneficiary Assessment

2.      The Community Beneficiary Assessment was carried out in September 2005 in 6 of the
original 18 districts where NUSAF was operational. The main objective of the study was
twofold: to establish how the beneficiaries had benefitted from the program and to determine
the level of satisfaction within the communities.

3.      The methodology of the study was based on a participatory approach with the
involvement of several stakeholders, including community members, LAs, political leaders,
project management committee members, procurement committees, NUSAF district staff, the
World Bank Uganda staff, and staff from the Office of the Prime Minister. In total, 1,352 (42
percent women) respondents were interviewed.

4.     The status of subproject implementation at the time of the study indicated that under the
CDI component, 49 percent were complete. Under the VGS component that had expired, 80
percent of the appraised subprojects had received 85 percent of the project funding, while the
remaining 20 percent had received 50 percent of the approved funding.

5.     Regarding the level of community benefit from the program, the study established that it
took place in the following ways:

   a. Construction projects helped create employment opportunities as masons and porters for
      people in communities. Additional family income was earned from the sale of sand,
      bricks, and timber to the construction projects. This boosted family welfare as several
      families reported better capacity to buy household requirements and pay medical bills
      and school fees.

   b. The program increased accessibility to education in those communities where
      classrooms were constructed. It was reported that in one school, Olupe primary school,
      enrollment increased by 184 percent. In addition, communities reported improved access
      to clean drinking water.
   c. Program implementation hinged on a bottom-up planning approach. As a result, NUSAF
      empowered the community with the knowledge and authority to determine its destiny

                                              34
       through increased participation in the planning process. For instance, up to 80 percent of
       the respondents were aware of NUSAF operational procedures, and 79 percent of the
       community members actively participated in meetings to deliberate on community
       priorities and contributions to the program. In addition, given the fact that the program
       does not fund projects on an individual basis, and individuals must come together to
       benefit from funding, NUSAF was credited with increasing social cohesion and
       networking in the communities.
   d. NUSAF was credited with building local capacity in conflict resolution, leadership, and
      management. Community members became key players in the reconciliation process,
      assisting in the process to integrate former abductees in the communities.

6.     With regard to gender, the program is considered to have been highly gender sensitive,
with 42 percent of the respondents stating they benefitted from the program.

7.      In reference to the level of community satisfaction with program, the study established
that 83 percent of the respondents were satisfied with NUSAF operations, 11 percent thought
the services were only average, and the remaining 6 percent thought the program's products and
services were poor.

Sustainability Plans

8.     The study established that there were community-based plans to sustain program
interventions. These included maintenance of school structures through the school management
committees; maintenance of community roads by the local authorities; establishment of water
committees to manage and maintain water sources established by the program; and local
fundraising efforts. Several other assessments were undertaken at the community level, the main
one being the Project Impact Evaluation study.

5A.2    Summary of Project Impact Evaluation

9.     An impact evaluation study was undertaken from August 2008 to January 2009 with the
main objective being to identify NUSAF program outputs, outcomes, and impacts--thereby
exploring the extent to which the program achieved the overall development objective of
improving the livelihood of the people of Northern Uganda. Specifically, the evaluation was
meant to assess:

   a. the impact of NUSAF interventions on access to and utilization of socioeconomic
      services provided by the program, with a specific focus on peace in a community;
   b. the impact on socioeconomic welfare of the vulnerable groups that were supported
      though NUSAF;
   c. the level of social cohesion and coexistence in the community that was supported
      through reconciliation efforts;



                                              35
   d. the extent to which program activities enhanced community and the capacity of local
      authorities to identify, prioritize, and plan subprojects; and
   e. the technical, financial, and physical sustainability of outputs over the short- and long-
      term after NUSAF support ceases.

10.    The evaluation used both quantitative and qualitative approaches. The former was based
on a panel survey of the same 3,583 households that were interviewed at baseline from July to
December 2008 (this was 75 percent of the households that were interviewed at baseline).
Households interviewed at baseline were traced using identification details obtained from the
baseline survey and re-interviewed.

11.    In total, 9,339 subprojects were funded. Of these, 28.8 percent are classified as
Community Development Initiatives, 57.1 percent as Vulnerable Groups Support, 9.1 percent as
Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management, and 5 percent as Youth Opportunities
Programs. Education, water, sanitation, and agricultural subprojects were the basis of the
evaluation since they made up significant proportions of the recipient communities in the
sample.

5A.3 Key Findings

Key Socioeconomic Impacts

12.     The total population in the region increased by 13 percent from 7.3 million in 2004. In
addition, the proportion of the population staying in the IDP camps was reduced by 7 percent
over the life of the project, with regional variations (the highest being in the Acholi subregion
with a 28.8 percent reduction). Over the life of the project, the household size increased from
5.4 to 5.8 with a corresponding increase in the number of children from 2.9 to 3.1. These
significant demographic changes are attributed to the relative peace that prevailed in the
NUSAF region for the life of the project.

13.     During the project period there was significant growth in consumption expenditure, with
the overall mean increase reported to be 17.5 percent. Again, there were regional variations
ranging from the highest 4.5 percent annualized consumption growth rate in the eastern region
to 3.7 percent in the Northern region. The growth in consumption expenditure was accompanied
by a reduced dependence on food handouts and increased consumption of home-produced food.
The program is credited with reducing dependence on remittances and transfers to increased
dependence of agriculture as a source of livelihood. This shift can be partly attributed to the
return of peace in the project area, but mostly to the provision of farm inputs and restocking
through the VGS component.

14.    In terms of poverty levels, while the poverty in the region remained higher than the
national averages, there was a significant reduction in the incidence of food poverty and
absolute poverty among the study respondents. The absolute number of poor people decreased


                                               36
by 13 percent from 5.3 million in 2004, with the biggest reductions occurring in the urban areas.
In addition, the proportion of the population living in extreme/food poverty fell by 12 percent to
34.2 percent at the time of the evaluation. Generally, twice as many panel households moved
out of poverty than slipped into it.

15.    In the final analysis, while there are large increases in household expenditure and a
reduction in the absolute number of poor, there is no strong statistical evidence that NUSAF
increased consumption or lowered poverty beyond what was occurring due to other factors.

Key Findings by NUSAF Subprojects

16.    There are variations in degree of impacts by subproject.

17.      In the education subprojects, the evaluation established that while enrollment in both
primary and secondary schools increased in NUSAF communities, the increase was not
statistically significant from the non-NUSAF communities. However, there was a statistically
significant increase in the number of teachers in NUSAF primary schools when compared to the
non-NUSAF communities. In NUSAF communities, teacher efficiency in terms of improved
time management, motivation, and extra time given to pupils was improved by the construction
of the teachers' houses under the CDI component. Unfortunately, this did not translate into
improved performance in the primary leavers' examinations.

18.     In the water and sanitation subprojects, the program increased access to safe drinking
water. All sub-regions reported that almost 80 percent of their populations had access to safe
drinking water, with 57 percent of the households reporting that the new water sources were
provided by NUSAF. By increasing access to safe drinking water, the program helped save time
for other productive work, as well as reduce conflicts (which arose from fights at the few water
points) and cases of domestic violence.

19.      While latrine coverage is still far below the national target, there was an 11 percent
increase in the number of households that had a toilet (up from 66 percent in 2004). Coupled
with the increase in toilet facilities was a corresponding improvement in hygiene and sanitation
in schools. There were significant differences between NUSAF beneficiaries and non-
beneficiaries for access to safe water and toilet facilities. These improvements, however, did not
result in a significant reduction in the incidence of diarrhea.

20.    The evaluation noted that while there is anecdotal evidence of positive outcomes, the
impacts of long-term initiatives, such as those of agricultural subprojects, are yet to be realized.

21.    NUSAF, through its CRCM component, is credited with the amicable resettlement of
abductees and displaced persons, and building the capacity of cultural leaders and local
community-based organizations in CRCM. All in all, there is evidence that NUSAF improved


                                                37
access to water and sanitation, improved school structures, and increased enrollment and the
number of teachers; variables that the program was meant to influence directly. Comparison
with other NGO-funded projects in the same area suggests that the lack of significant results
may be due to difficulties in identifying project impacts for a typical social action fund like
NUSAF rather than an actual lack of impact.

5A.4   Summary of the NUSAF Listenership Survey

22.     The overall purpose of the survey was to measure the level of listenership to the radio
programs that are used by district task forces and NUMU to inform, educate, and communicate
with the people of Northern Uganda who live in the 18 NUSAF districts. The other objectives of
the study were to find out whether people comprehend the radio messages that are disseminated
by NUSAF; gauge exposure to the messages through electronic media; and gather information
that can be used by NUSAF as a reservoir to aid future IEC materials and boost development
communication.

23.     The study focused on household members who fall into the 14­70 age bracket because
they are likely to be more informed about issues relating to their areas and can easily influence
the recommended behavior in the community. The total sample was 1,400 interviews with a
67:33 rural-to-urban ratio and a 55:45 male-to-female ratio; a significant proportion of these
people were between 18 and 44 years of age. The largest proportion (64 percent) had attained
primary or secondary education, while 17 percent of the sample indicated that they had never
had any formal education. An additional number of stakeholders was sampled in each district
and these included both NUSAF stakeholders and other wider community actors, like the chief
administrative officers, district information officers, District Technical Planning Committees,
journalists based in the local communities, church leaders, district executive committee
members, other community leaders, and elders.

24.     A three-stage probability proportional to size (PPS) random selection was applied. Stage
1: the selection of parishes in each area by PPS Sampling; Stage 2: the selection of sampling
points and households using enumeration area maps; and stage 3: the selection of the
respondents within a household.

25.     The study established that awareness of NUSAF was very high (94 percent of all
sampled respondents). Further, it was established that the majority liked NUSAF because it
delivered on several of its objectives.

26.     Overall, 84 percent of the respondents mentioned having heard messages on conflict
resolution, while an almost equal proportion had heard messages on community infrastructure
(67 percent), income-generating activities (66 percent), communication and harmony in the
home (65 percent), and youth support and skills acquisition (62 percent). Messages on small
business development and development communication had the lowest proportion of
respondents who listened to them on radio.


                                               38
27.    Radio listenership was found to be quite high in all the sampled districts in comparison
to other media activities, such as reading print media and watching television. The Karamoja
sub-region exhibited different listenership trends and characteristics from the other sub-
regions--for example, while in most communities respondents mainly listen to radio from the
comfort of their homes, in Karamoja it is more of an outdoor activity.

28.    Many respondents had heard about NUSAF or even knew what it was doing in their
communities. However, a significant proportion also felt that they were not able to put what
they heard on radio into practice and so missed out on the benefits. Misuse or diversion of funds
was roundly blamed for preventing communities from benefitting from NUSAF activities.
Corruption and misuse of funds was echoed by five percent of the stakeholders, who felt these
were among the major reasons why NUSAF had not met some of its objectives.

29.    Of the sample, 85 percent recommended that the NUSAF radio programs should
continue to be broadcast. This interest was quite high across all districts visited, with the lowest
proportion of respondents (67 percent) in the Apac district.

Lessons Learned

30.    Given that radio listenership was found to be quite high in all the sampled districts in
comparison to other media activities (e.g., reading print media, watching television), the best
way to reach out to the different communities is through locally popular radio stations.

31.      The Karamoja sub-region exhibited different listenership trends and characteristics from
the other sub-regions. Hence, when designing strategic interventions or programs, each sub-
region needs to be treated as a unique entity and specific programs created that appeal to and fit
their lifestyles and culture.

32.     While awareness for NUSAF was found to be quite high in all the districts sampled,
these high levels of awareness did not necessarily translate into widespread benefits. Many
respondents had heard about NUSAF or even knew what it was doing in their communities, but
they revealed that they had not benefitted much from these activities.

5A.5   Summary of the Youth Opportunities Program Impact Evaluation Baseline Survey

33.      The Impact Evaluation Baseline Survey was undertaken in February and March 2008 to
lay the groundwork for a thorough and rigorous future impact evaluation of the YOP within
NUSAF. A midterm took place in October/November 2009 and a final evaluation is scheduled
for mid-2010. The survey was based on a sample of 2,587 youth in 522 groups across 10 study
districts in Northern Uganda.




                                                39
34.    The survey gathered detailed household socioeconomic information for the sample of
youth, as well as information on the youth group characteristics and group leaders. It provided a
description of the average characteristics of NUSAF Youth Opportunities Program applicants
and also provided a test of balance between treatment and control groups in the context of a
randomized evaluation.

35.     The selection process for the beneficiaries and the control groups was open, transparent,
and fair. Youth groups were chosen to receive the program or become part of the comparison
group using a lottery. The transparency of the method was popular among the applicants, and it
ensured that the comparison group was (on average) identical to the beneficiaries in every way.
Hence any difference between the two groups in future can be attributed solely to the YOP
itself.

Key Lessons

Baseline data and observations can only yield limited insights; however, several preliminary
observations were drawn:

36. Communities with poor leadership or vulnerable groups and low levels of cohesion
undoubtedly received fewer projects because they did not organize.

37. Given the large oversubscription to the program, where demand for the program far
exceeded the available supply of resources, the selection of beneficiaries through a lottery
system was not only feasible but also provided a fair and transparent mechanism through which
to allocate funding among equally qualified youth group applicants.

38. Exactly 33 percent of YOP beneficiaries were female. This figure, being YOP's
requirement for women participation, suggested that youth groups aimed only to register the
very minimum number of women. Moreover, relatively few groups had female leadership.
These patterns suggest that women may be marginal players in many groups. It is yet uncertain
how to increase female participation and ownership of the projects, but these observations
suggest that a more proactive targeting of young women may be necessary to overcome the
barriers that limit women's participation in the context of demand-driven, community-based
programs such as YOP.

39. The targeted population consists of people around the ages of 15­35 who live in
conditions of poverty and are currently unemployed or underemployed. Given the self-reported
interest in entrepreneurship, the mental health and risk-taking behavior of the potential
beneficiaries suggested that the subproject targeted an applicant pool that was well motivated to
engage in the skills training and entrepreneurship activities financed by YOP in order to
improve their livelihoods.


Annex 6.       Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (Impact Evaluation Report)


                                               40
(if any)
N/A




           41
Annex 7.          Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

7A.1 Overview of the GoU's ICR

1.      This report provides the status of project implementation as of March 31, 2009. This is
the last reporting stage for the period and it also marks the end of the project. The status depicts
cumulative achievements of the components and support units of the project in light of the
project development objectives and key performance indicators stipulated in the DCS. It
enumerates some of the lessons learned and challenges encountered during implementation, and
outlines some of the strategies proposed for addressing these challenges. The report also details
ideas to sustain the benefits accruing to the communities from the project-funded investments.
Annexes to the table provide an overview of the overall trends in different but interrelated
stages of the subproject cycle, the achievements in light of the targets, and assets acquired by
communities as a result of project funding.

7A.2      Background

2.      Beginning in 1986, Northern Uganda was plagued with a civil war that raged on for
nearly two decades. As a result of the insurgency caused by war, infrastructure was destroyed
and service delivery severely hampered. The region lags behind other regions in the country in
most of the human development indicators, despite its economic potential. Results of the
2005/06 National Household Survey show that despite a small reduction in poverty, the North
has the largest proportion of people living in poverty (estimated at 61 percent, almost twice the
national poverty level of 31 percent). Furthermore, the region has some of the lowest non-
income measures of well-being and human development indicators, including demographic
indicators; underemployment; literacy; and access to education, health services, and water.20
Evidence from the Northern Uganda Survey (Uganda Bureau of Statistics 2005) and
preliminary findings by Ssewanyana, Younger, and Kasirye (2006) indicate that both access to
and utilization of social services in the region are lower than in the rest of the country and, as a
consequence, the level of human capital development remains lower. The Northern Uganda
Social Action Fund has been one of the government's efforts to address these issues.

7A.3 Overview of the Project


3.      NUSAF was a community demand-driven project with a credit of US$100 million from
the International Development Agency. The project aimed to improve the livelihood of the
people in northern Uganda. It sought to empower their communities by enhancing the capacity
to systematically identify, prioritize, and plan for their needs and implement and manage
sustainable development initiatives that improve socioeconomic services and opportunities. The
project was implemented in 29 (initially 18) districts of Northern Uganda and ran from February

20
     Source: Uganda Human Development Report, 2007



                                                     42
2003 to March 31, 2009, following a one-year, no-cost extension granted for the smooth
completion of the project.

7A.4 Overall Project Objectives

4.      The project aimed to ensure that:

     a. there is increased access to, and quality of, socioeconomic infrastructure;
     b. vulnerable groups receive support;
     c. capacities of community institutions and local governments are built to effectively
        manage community investments;
     d. there is strengthened community participation and leadership development;
     e. employment opportunities are provided to able-bodied individuals in food-insecure
        households; and
     f. there is CRCM support.

5.      The activities of the project were organized into four components:

     a. Community Development Initiatives, which focus on rehabilitating or constructing
        small-scale infrastructure;
     b. Vulnerable Groups Support, which aims to increase the incomes of vulnerable people (in
        addition, this component promotes skills development and re-tooling of youth through
        the YOP);
     c. Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management, which fosters peaceful ways of
        resolving conflicts and ensuring sustainable harmonious living and working relations in
        communities that lead to sustainable development; and
     d. Institutional development.

6.      Specifically, the project targeted to the needs of vulnerable groups and communities
emerging from conflict. These included people living in IDP camps; former abductees; youth
who have surrendered guns under the disarmament program in Karamoja; people who are
HIV/AIDS-infected and -affected; female-headed households; orphans; child mothers; and
people with disabilities. The project also targeted the able-bodied and unemployed poor;
unskilled and unemployed youth; and communities that do not have adequate or functional
social services such as schools, water points, and health units.

7A.5 Relationship with Existing Government Efforts
7.      The PRDP is a national program with an overarching goal of stabilizing the North. The
targets and objectives in the PRDP contribute to the overall objectives of Uganda's Poverty
Eradication Action Plan and include: economic management; increased productivity; income
and competitiveness; security; conflict resolution and disaster management; good governance;
and human development. NUSAF contributed to the realization of three objectives of the PRDP


                                               43
including: empowering and rebuilding communities, revitalizating of the economy, and building
peace and reconciliation.

7A.6:Progress Towards Achievement of the Development Objective

Strengthening community participation and social accountability

8.      The project has made unwavering efforts to build the capacity of community project
management committees and community procurement committees in their core duties. This was
done in an effort to strengthen community participation and leadership development and
encourage mobilization and sustainable use of natural resources. Core duties include conducting
executive committee and general community meetings; selecting and undertaking viable
procurement options; monitoring progress of subproject implementation; and managing
contractors. These efforts are all geared at ensuring high subproject completion and
accountability rates and promoting the use and sustainability of community investments or their
spin-off benefits.

9.       The design of the project dictated that participatory rural appraisal (PRA) exercises be
undertaken in communities that expressed interest in project activities by picking subproject
interest forms. There have been variations in the rigor and quality of community-level PRA
exercises, which can be largely attributed to the quality of technical assistance by community
facilitators, yet there is clear evidence of increased active community participation in subproject
identification, prioritization, and planning. The establishment and training of community project
management committees and community procurement committees notwithstanding, the varied
capacities of these structures have been key to strengthening community participation in the
management of community investments. Regular community meetings conducted by CPMCs
have promoted social and financial accountability to community members. There has also been
a growing demand among communities for feedback on the use of subproject resources, which
in turn has increased the demand on service providers (including implementing agencies and
local government staff) to account for the quality and amount of technical support they provide
when implementing community investments.

10.     In a bid to enhance the involvement of communities in monitoring their subprojects, the
project held trainings with sub-county technical staff who in turn mentored local communities in
basic monitoring. The direct involvement of communities in monitoring enhanced subproject
completion rates and promoted the utilization and sustainability of these investments. The
strengthened capacities of communities to perform oversight functions helped to minimize some
forms of malpractice at the community level, such as corruption, elite capture, and waste of
community resources.

11.    Despite variations in capacities across and within districts, local governments at district
and sub-county levels have been responsive in appraising subprojects, providing technical
support during implementation, and supporting the certification and commissioning of funded


                                                44
community investments. The large numbers of subprojects that have been desk- and field-
appraised, District Technical Committee-recommended, and District Executive Committee-
approved (14,212), attests to the responsiveness of local governments to the project. This can
especially be seen when compared to the funded community proposals (9,317) and the number
of completed subprojects.

12.    Local governments and those who worked on the project made very deliberate efforts to
improve the financial accountability of community investments. These efforts, such as
employing the use of FM radios to broadcast the names of people and communities that had not
submitted their accountabilities to the district, helped to significantly improve community
accountability status, with the overall accountability status of all funded subprojects reaching 96
percent.

13.      The close involvement of sub-county technical staff increased and improved the
technical support that went to communities. In turn, communities improved their quality of
implementation, improved the pace of subproject completion, and boosted transparency and
accountability. In addition, the ability of communities to oversee and manage financial and
administrative matters was largely built through the increased mentorship of sub-county and
district technical staff.

Improving the quality of and access to social services and community-initiated infrastructure

14.      The activities categorized under the CDI are meant to improve the accessibility to and
delivery of socioeconomic services. In addition, CDI activities also aim to enhance the planning
and management capacities of communities. The subproject completion rate among community
initiatives under this component was 94 percent and the community satisfaction rate was 73
percent. While the DCA set a target of 2,500 CDI community investments and a total allocation
of 78.7 percent of total subproject funding, the project cumulatively disbursed UShs
97,991,432,607 to 2,694 community investments by the end of the project.

Support to Vulnerable Groups

15.      The project benefitted over 220,000 vulnerable persons directly from project support
channeled through the VGS component. The cumulative disbursement and the total number of
vulnerable persons in receipt of project support is far above the allocation of US$20 million and
the target outreach of 55,000 vulnerable persons. The higher-than-planned achievements can be
mainly explained by shifts in policy thrust that favored increased investments in livelihood
initiatives. Completion rates were at 99 percent. The disbursed subproject funds are distributed
among the key intervention areas as follows: income-generating activities (71 percent); time and
labor-saving technologies (18 percent); vocational skills training (3 percent); family support (7
percent); and counseling and psychosocial support (1 percent).

Community Reconciliation and Conflict Management

                                                45
16.    Developed in part to provide relevant information, education, and communication for
communities and stakeholders in peace building and conflict management, the CRCM
component had a target of funding 800 communities. By the end of the project, the component
had funded 845 communities that undertook various activities geared towards promoting
peaceful coexistence among local groups.

Institutional Support

17.      The project continued to receive technical support from the local government when
implementing activities through various working groups (such as the IEC and Accountability
Task Forces), coordinated by District Implementation Task Forces. NUMU field teams and
district task forces worked to ensure high subproject completion and accountability rates and
promote awareness among communities of their responsibilities in managing and sustaining
their investments and the benefits they accrued.

18.     Significant steps were taken to build local institutional capacity at district, lower-level
local government (LLG), and community levels. For example, financial support to district and
sub-county technical personnel for their supervision of funded investments was provided;
government staff were trained in monitoring; community project management committees and
community procurement committees received training in financial and administrative
management of subprojects; and user committees had customized trainings in the operation and
maintenance of subproject initiatives. In addition, monthly meetings of CPMC executives, and
at least quarterly community meetings, were held by CPMCs to provide social and financial
accountability. This in turn promoted community ownership and transparency in subproject
processes.

19.    The involvement of sub-counties in the project cycle was achieved partly through
earmarking regular financial allocations for sub-county technical staff to perform specific
functions. It not only improved the quality and frequency of technical support received by
communities during subproject implementation, but also increased the likelihood of sustaining
the community investments.

20.     The U Sh 169 billion disbursed directly to communities is considerable because it
exceeds the development budgets of local governments in the region. District leaders and sector
specialists in districts and LLGs viewed the project as a valuable augmentation of their existing
development budgets and provided additional investments that contributed to realizing equitable
distribution of services.




7A.8 Challenges


                                                46
21.     For the entire period of implementation, the project made efforts to establish and
strengthen mechanisms for quality assurance, operations, maintenance, and the sustainability of
community subprojects. Additionally, LGs were urged to increase their financial votes for
operations and maintenance in local government corporate budgets. The project also
implemented collaboration protocols with other service providers, such as the WFP and
NAADS, while seeking other strategic partnerships for continued financial and technical
staffing of project-funded community institutions. This was done to provide continued support
for community-funded investments and their resultant benefits.

22.      In some districts, especially newly created ones, capacity constraints posed a threat to
the operation and maintenance of community investments. Additionally, the limited (and in
isolated cases, the absence of) banking facilities in some districts necessitated extensive travel
and posed risks to CPMC members (especially in conflict- and banditry-ridden areas, which
could lead to loss of cash in transit). The banking challenges were exacerbated by limited or
lacking literacy and numeracy skills in CPMC members. The inadequacy of skills needed for
financial oversight meant that some communities engaged local CSOs and community
facilitators to assist them in financial management and procurement processes, while others
relied on community facilitators and literate family members. This exposed such communities
to risks of manipulation, regrettably leaving a few communities defrauded.

23.     To a large extent, the project's targeting mechanisms have been effective, achieved
largely through active community participation at all stages of the subproject cycle. However,
targeting transient communities remained a challenge, and in exceptional cases, political
interferences and elite capture thrived on the inability of weak communities to guard against
errors of target group exclusion.
24.     A second phenomenon was mainly witnessed among extremely vulnerable groups, such
as people with HIV/AIDS, who live under conditions of exclusion or suffer from social stigma.
Such groups required more support to enable them secure program funds and technical
assistance. To this end, provisions for CSO and NGO involvement in subproject identification
and implementation, closely supervised by district and subcounty technical staff, improved the
targeting. Furthermore, the project signed implementation protocols with other development
agencies (such as the Uganda AIDS Control Programme, which already has outreach) for
extremely vulnerable groups.

25.     While there was a provision for including women as CPMC executives (at least one of
the three executive members for mixed groups had to be a woman), the participation of women,
especially in decision-making, has been limited. The post-conflict environment in which women
have suffered disproportionately from violence presented very limited opportunities for women
to engage in community deliberations. The project, however, addressed this concern by
encouraging regular and frequent CPMC and community meetings, promoting regular feedback
opportunities to service providers, and supporting community monitoring efforts.



                                               47
26.    A few subprojects, especially in hard-to-reach areas, did not receive adequate
supervision, which can be partly explained by the inadequate staffing in local governments,
especially in the production and engineering sectors.
27.      The Karamoja sub-region needs special or tailored implementation modalities
(different from the other sub-regions) because of the very low capacities of CPMCs and
Community Procurement Committees, the limited capacities of CSOs and district technical
staff, and restricted enterprise options.

7A.9 Lessons Learned and Suggested Strategies for Improvement

28.      Committed district and LLG leadership is one of the key factors in realizing
successful implementation and maximizing benefits to communities. The sustainability of CDD
initiatives is greater when local government technical staff and political leaders are involved in
the planning, appraisal, execution, and monitoring of subprojects.

29.    Direct financing of communities reduces cost overruns, deepens decentralization, and
contributes to fast-tracking the strengthening of management capacity in local communities.

30.     Communities in a post-conflict environment can identify, plan, manage, and monitor
social investments suited to their needs once they receive appropriate guidance and support. In
the same vein, communities can engage effectively in procuring community assets and account
for finances and other public resources in their possession.

31.     Incorporating project plans and budgets in local government planning
frameworks, together with integrated implementation modalities--especially at the community
level--avoids the pitfalls of creating parallel institutions and promotes the sustainability of
project investments and their resultant benefits.

32.   CSOs/CBOs perform better in community planning, capacity enhancement, and
monitoring and evaluation than in the direct implementation of community subprojects.




                                               48
       7A.10 Conclusions

33.      As the project comes to the end of its implementation, a significant proportion of its
objectives have been realized and some targets surpassed. The achievements, notwithstanding
the challenges, have provided a firm basis for communities in Northern Uganda to take charge
of and shape their destiny. Moreover, the project's method of working with and through
community groups has enhanced community cohesion, promoted reintegration, and contributed
to peaceful co-existence in the region. On the whole, the project has provided communities,
local governments, and project staff with a learning experience. It represents the first time in
Uganda that an initiative of this thematic and geographical scope, and with this magnitude of
funding, has been largely driven by community members. They had the sole responsibility to
identify, plan, implement, manage, and ensure the smooth operation and maintenance of their
initiatives--where money has been "put into the hands of local community members" to
implement investments of their choices. It is revealing to note that with appropriate support,
communities can plan and manage initiatives that address their needs.
Annex 8.        Borrowers Comments on the Draft ICR

Note: These comments were provided by the client on the draft ICR and are reproduced here as
received. Where appropriate, these comments have been incorporated in this final version.

We find the final draft of the ICR by the Bank acceptable to GOU. We would, however, wish to
make the following comments for possible consideration by the Bank in your final ICR:

   1. Under Abbreviations and Acronyms, on page (ii) of the final draft ICR, please include
      ISR, PMC and ILI which appear in various parts of the Bank ICR but are not included in
      the Abbreviations and Acronyms.

   2. Under Section A. Basic Information on page (iv), it is stated that the Original Total
      Commitment was XDR 80.1M and actual disbursement was XDR 80.1M but the
      implications of the cancelled credit of XDR 26,408.68 (US$ 42,021) from UGANDA
      IDA Credit 36970 ­ NUSAF Project are not stated anywhere in the final draft ICR. The
      GOU view is that the loan capital should be taken as XDR 80.1M less XDR 26,408.68
      that was refunded by GOU for reasons stipulated in Paragraph 5 under part B of
      schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of Northern Uganda Social
      Action Fund (NUSAF) Project.

   3. Under Section (a) Project Development Objective (PDO) Indicator 2 and under the row
      on comments (incl. % achievement) on page (vi), please include the following other
      reasons why the target was not achieved: some of the Project resources were used to
      meet functionality needs in order to make the NUSAF investments operational. These
      needs (which were not in the original Bills of Quantities) included desks for classrooms,
      stools and tables for science laboratories, kitchens, latrines and water tanks for teachers'
      houses.




                                               49
   4. Under Section (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1 and under the row on comments
      (incl. % achievement) on page (vii), there is need to state that the difference relative to
      the target can be attributed to: (a) the exchange rate gains and proceeds from the
      Millennium Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) of about US$ 20 million. The point which
      needs to be clarified is that the total funds disbursed increased from US$ 100 million to
      US$ 120.22 million because of these two reasons. The proceeds from MDRI were about
      US$ 5 million and foreign exchange gains were about US$ 15.22 million.

   5. Under Paragraph 19 Section (a) on page 5, the Project National Steering Committee was
      chaired by the Permanent Secretary Office of the Prime Minister but not the Minister of
      State responsible for Northern Uganda. The Minister of State for Northern Uganda
      Rehabilitation chaired the Northern Uganda Rehabilitation Policy Committee (NPC).

   6. Under Paragraph 31 (Cost variations) on Page 8, there is need to take into account
      functionality costs as well as mentioned in No.3 above.

   7. Paragraph 38 on Page 9 could be split into two paragraphs namely: Paragraph 38 to
      handle Financial Management issues and Paragraph 39 to address Compliance with
      Environmental and Social Safeguard issues rather than amalgamating the same under
      one paragraph.

   8. Under Paragraph 49 on Page 12, please include proceeds from MDRI as part of the
      extra US$ 20 million realized under NUSAF Project.

   9. It seems Sections 7, 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3 on Page 23 and Annex 6 on Page 39 are
      redundant. If this is the case then it might be necessary to delete the same from the ICR.

The Bank ICR as presented by the Bank is neither sensitive, confidential nor will it have
adverse effects if disclosed publically but will enhance cordial relations between the
Government of Uganda, the Bank and Development Partners.

Finally, on behalf of the Government of Uganda, I would like to thank you for the invaluable
support offered in the implementation of the NUSAF Project.




                                              50
Annex 9.      List of Supporting Documents

The following documents were printed and bound:

      a.   Beneficiary Assessment (BA)--Business Synergies (Dec. 2005)
      b.   Community Needs Assessment (CNA)
      c.   Community Score Cards--M&E Unit of NUSAF and District TOTs
      d.   Comparative Study of the LGDP and NUSAF
      e.   Evaluation Report--World Food Program and NUSAF Collaboration--WFP (May
           2007)
      f.   Financial Management Review Report (FMR 2005)--BVL (Dec. 2005)
      g.   Financial Management Review Report (FMR 2008)--(Prime Solutions Nov. 2008)
      h.   Gender Audit of the Uganda Country Portfolio (2007)
      i.   Impact Evaluation Report (2009)--Uganda Bureau of Statistics
      j.   The Listenership Survey--The Steadman Group
      k.   Northern Uganda Survey (NUS)--Uganda Bureau of Statistics (2004)
      l.   Project MTR Issues Paper
      m.   YOP Impact Evaluation (Report forthcoming)




                                           51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33504R3



                                                                                                                                                             U GA N D A
                                                                                                                                 DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                  UGANDA                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                 RIVERS

                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                  30°E                                                                                    32°E                                                                                           34°E
                                         0        25        50      75       100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                         SUDAN
                                         0             25             50                75 Miles                                  To
                                                                                                                                 Juba
                                                                           To
                                                                         Faradje
   4°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4°N


                                                                                                                 Moyo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KAABONG
                                                                  KOBOKO
                                                                                       YUMBE
                                                                                                                                                             KITGUM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K E N YA
                                                                                              Yumbe                                                                                                               Kaabong
                                                                                                        YO




                                                                 Koboko                                                Adjumani
                                                                                                                                                                   Kitgum
                                                                                                  MO




                                                                 Maracha                                                    I
                                                                      MARACHA                                          AN
                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                    A D le




                                                                                                                                                                                                               KOTIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                               KOTID O
                                                                                                       JU
                                                                                                       Ni




                                                                            Arua                                                                                                PADER
                                                                                                                                                                                PAD ER                                               Kotido                                 To
                                                                                                 t




                                                                                                                                                        Ac
                                                                                                    r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lodwar
                                                                                               Albe




                                                                                                                                          GULU
                                                                                                                                          G ULU
                                                                                                                                                         ch




                                                                              ARUA
                                                                              ARUA                                              Kilak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ok o k
                                                                                                                                                           wa




                                                                                                                                            Gulu                                                             ABIM
                                                                                       O ra
                                                                                                             AMURU                                                                                            Abim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Moroto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          an
             DE     R EP.
             DE M . RE P.                                              Nebbi
                                                                                      NEBBI
                                                                                      NE BBI                       Nile                                                                LIRA                                      Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     om
                                                                                                                                            OYAM
                                                                                                        Victoria                                                               Lira                                               MOROTO
            O F O N GO
            OF C ON G O                                                                          Bulisa
                                                                                                                                             Oyam
                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMURIA
                                                                                                                                                     APAC                                                               KATAKWI
   2°N                                                                                                                                                                     DOKOLO                                                                    Nakapiripirit                 2°N
                                                                                         BULISA
                                                                                                                                                        Apac                                             Amuria Katakwi
                                                To                                                               MASINDI
                                                                                                                 MASIND I                                                       Dokolo
                                                Beni                                                                                          Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                    Kaberamaido                       Lake         NAKAPIRIPIRIT
                                                                                                                                             Kwania                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Salisbury Opeta
                                                                                                                                                    AMOLATAR
                                                                                 rt                                Masindi                                         KABERA-
                                                                            be
                                                                                                                                                                             Soroti                                                 Siti
                                                                                                                                                   Amolatar
                                                                                                                                   NAK                              MAIDO SOROTI                                           Kumi                    KAPCHORWA
                                                                                                                                          AS
                                                                    Al




                                                                                      Hoima                                                    ON           Lake Kyoga                                                                               Kapchorwa
                                                                                                          Kafu                                      G                                                         KUMI
                                                               ke




                                                                             HOIMA                                                                      O                                                                                                  BUKWO
                                                            La




                                                                                                                                    Nakasongola                                                    PALLISA
                                                                                                                                                                K AY U N G A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sironko            Bukwo
                                                                                                                                                                                KAMULI
                                                                                                                                                        LA




                                                                        i
                                                                   Nkus                                                                                                                                        Pallisa                SIRONKO
                                                                                                        KIBOGA NAKASEKE                                                                   KALIRO                Budaka                    Mbale
                                                                                                                                                                                  Kamuli                                                             Mt. Elgon (4321 m)
               To                                                        K I BA A L E
                                                                         KIBAALE                                   Kiboga                                                                       NAMU-
                                                                                                                                                                                         Kaliro
                                                                                                                                                                         GA




              Bunia        BUNDIBUGYO                                                                                                                                                           TUMBA                                                     MANAPWA
                                                                                                                                                                           A




                                                                                      Kibale                                                        Luwero                                                          Butaleja
                                           Fort                                                                                                                                                                                           Bubulo            BUDAKA
                                                                                                                                               LUWERO                          Kayunga IGANGA Busiki
                                                  LE




                       Bundibugyo        Portal                                                                                   Nakaseke                                                                                                              MBALE
                                                                  Kyenjojo                                                                                                                                           Tororo
                                               ARO




                                                                                                Mubende                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                      JINJA                     Bugiri                              TORORO     Nakuru
                                                             KYENJOJO                                                                                                                             Iganga
                                                                                               M U BE N D E MITYANA Wakiso
                                                                                               MUBENDE                                                                                                                                             BUTALEJA
                                              KAB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Busia
          Margherita Peak                                                                                                         Mityana                        Mukono                   Jinja
               (5110 m)                           KAMWENGE                                                                         KAMPALA                                                                                BUSIA
                              KASESE                        Kamwenge                                                                Mpigi                KAMPALA
                            Kasese                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                              Katonga                                               MPIGI
                                                                                                                    MP IG I                                                                                                                       Kisumu
                           Lake                                                       SEM
   0°                    George                   IBANDA                                    B A Sembabule                                WAKISO                                                                                                                                    0°
                                                       KIRUHURA
                                                                                               B
                                                                                               BU




                                                       Ibanda                                            MASAKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAYUGE

                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUGIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUGIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUGIRI
                                                                                                LE




               Lake                                                                                           Masaka                                                            MUKONO
                              BUSHENYI                            Kiruhura
              Edward                                                                                                                      Kalangala
                        R
                        RU K




To
Beni
                                         Bushenyi
                                                       MBARARA                                                                                                                                                                                               K E N YA
                            UNG




                                                 Mbarara
                              G




                                                                     Isingiro           Rakai                                           KALANGALA
                            IRI




           KANUNGU
                              I




                                  Rukungiri       Ntungamo                                     RAKAI
                      Kanungu                                      ISINGIRO
                                      NTUNGAMO

            KISORO KABALE
                         Kisoro      Kabale
                                                                                                                                        Lak e                                  Vic toria
To Goma




                                                                     TAN Z ANI
                                                                     TANZANIA
                                                                     TANZ AN I A
                                              To
                                             Kigali
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Nyakanazi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TANZANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA NZA NIA
                 RWAN
                 R WA D A
                 RWA N DA                                                                                                 32°E                                                                                           34°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUGUST 2008
