Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22264-MK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.0 MILLION (US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR THE
CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LIL)
June 7,2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



fRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Lxch-.ingc Rate Effective 04/19/2001)
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
I MKD = US$0.0194
US$1 = 64.8 MKD
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AYS:         Agency for Youth & Sports
CAS:         Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs:        Community Based Organizations
CESVI:       Italian Consortium
CIDA:        Canadian Development Agency
CYDP:        Children & Youth Development Project
ECA:         Europe and Central Asia
ECCD:        Early Child Care and Development
ECHO:              European Community Humanitarian Office
EMP:         Environmental Management Plan
FYROM:    Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
GOM:         Government of Macedonia
GPN:         General Procurement Notice
IBRD:        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB:         International Competitive Bidding
ICT:         Information and Connection Technology
IDA:         International Development Agency
LIL:         Learning Innovation Loan
M&E:         Monitoring & Evaluation
MOT:         International Theater and Music Associations
NGOs:        Non-Governmental Organizations
PAD:         Project Appraisal Document
PMRs:        Project Management Reports
PMU:         Project Management Units
SOE:         Statement of Expenditure
SOROS:       League for Albanian Women
UN:          United Nations
UNICEF:    United Nations Children's Fund
WB:          World Bank
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:   Alexandre Marc/Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader:   Gloria La Cava



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LIL)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      4
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              9
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          12
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                       12
5. Environmental                                                                      14
6. Social                                                                              1 5
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     18
2. Critical risks                                                                      18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      19
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            19
2. Other                                                                               19



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          34
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    43
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  44
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 45
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           46
Annex 11: Sustainability Plan                                                           48
Annex 12: Lessons from the World Bank Post Conflict Grant and Other Projects            53
Annex 13: Minutes of the Consultative Workshop                                          56
Annex 14: Assessments on Youth                                                          58
Annex 15: Environmental Data Sheet                                                      60
MAP(S)
IBRD 31409



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: June 7, 2001                                Team Leader: Gloria La Cava
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman          Sector Manager: Alexandre Marc
Project ID: P073483                               Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Social Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data...........
Loan     [X] Credit    [ ]Grant     [ ]Guarantee      [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $ 2.50
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local:        Foreign        Total'
BORROWER                                                       1.15           0.00           1.15
IDA                                                            2.34           0.16          2.50
U.N. CHILDREN'S FUND                                           0.36           0.00          0.36
Total:                                                         3.85           0.16          4.01
Borrower: MACEDONIA
Responsible agency: AGENCY FOR YOUTH AND SPORTS
Address: 'I I Oktomvri" 9 (ESM Building)
Contact Person: Igor Georgievski, Director
Tel: 389 2 119628                Fax:                 Email: marjam978@yahoo.com
Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUS$m):
Y~:        2 0--2002  --2003-    2004      2005-:
Annual    0.59        0.88       0.70       0.33
Cumulative    0.59        1.47      2.17       2.50
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
CCS W, ,an. bv. bAA 2O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The Project's main development objective is to significantly increase social cohesion through the social
integration of youth at risk from different socio-cultural backgrounds.
in particular, the project will:
(a)   test community-based approaches to support adolescents and youth at risk (ages 15-24), prevent
their marginalisation and reduce exposure to abuse (drug, alcohol, etc.) and conflict;
(b)    strengthen the institutional capacity at central and local levels to address children and youth issues
by: (i) contributing to the preparation and implementation of a Children and Youth Strategy; (ii) monitoring
social trends affecting youth and assess the impact of project activities; and (iii) building the financial
sustainability of youth activities through cost effectiveness and increasing private and local public
contributions.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Atmex 1)
I. Yearly trend in the number of different categories of project beneficiaries of youth centers and drug
prevention programs by ethnicity, age group, gender, school enrollment or drop out status, and rural or
urban residence.
2. Project sustainability as measured by Government budget allocations for recurrent costs, share of
recurrent costs covered by municipal budgets, users' fees, private sector and local NGO contributions,
advertising revenues, and in-kind contributions.
3. Yearly youth and parents' satisfaction with different project activities (and suggestions for
improvements) by ethnic groups, as randomly sampled.
4. Trend in community participation in youth centers as measured by the increased number of young
volunteers, number of retired professionals working as volunteers, etc.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-80 [IFC/R2000-791         Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/13/2000
One of the three goals of the CAS (confirmed in the CAS Progress Report) is to alleviate poverty and
develop human capital. This project will contribute directly to developing human capital and indirectly to
the alleviation of poverty.
The CAS Progress Report emphasizes that social cohesion is key to sustainable development. It points
out that wide ethnic differences in FYR Macedonia make it particularly vulnerable to inter-ethnic tensions,
wide differences exist between cultural practices and economic and social achievements of the different
groups in society, and regional imbalances are another threat to social cohesion. FYR Macedonia is a
small country with relatively important regional differences between rural and urban populations, between
mountainous regions and other parts of the country, and more generally between various sub-regions of the
country. Because of these differences, ensuring equal access to services and economic and social
opportunities is an important challenge.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The following issues are particularly relevant for Macedonia's youth. Crime, drug addiction and sexually
transmitted diseases are increasingly affecting the young. The number of children with delinquent behavior
has almost doubled in the last five years. In the same period, the number of registered drug abusers
increased fourfold and the number of criminal acts by juveniles increased by 50 percent. Furthermore,
early pregnancies are high, particularly among some ethnic groups.
The share of some ethnic groups in secondary education (especially Albanians, Roma and Turks) does not
correspond to their proportional share in the total population, particularly in terms of the female
participation. For instance, while girls in Macedonia account for 50.6% of secondary school age children,
only 37.3% of Albanian girls of this age appear in the official registration lists of the secondary schools.
The corresponding figures for Turk and Roma girls are even worse at 33.5% and 32.5% respectively.
Given this situation, the Government's Strategy for Education (June 2000) focuses on: (i) equal access to
education; (ii) increase in the access to and quality of care in early childhood; (iii) preparation of youth for
the challenges in the information society; and (iv) the development of education that would serve for social
cohesion. The Agency for Youth and Sports (AYS), has launched a youth strategy, complementary to the
Strategy for Education, to define objectives and methods for fostering social integration of youth.
However, so far this has been primariley an administrative exercise, which could be greatly strengthened
through the adoption of participatory approaches.
In 1999, during the refugee crisis as a result of the conflict in Kossovo, the World Bank gave a US$2
million post-conflict grant to Macedonia to support communities privately hosting refugee children and
their families in a number of municipalities. The project specifically focused on ethnic conflict prevention
by: (i) improving the learning environment of Kossovar and Roma refugee children as well as Macedonian
children from hosting communities; (ii) creating an Early Child Care Development network of mothers in
disadvantaged communities predominately inhabited by ethnic minorities or mixed groups benefiting about
5,000 families; and (iii) promoting the interethnic dialogue and life skills education among youth.
With the end of the refugee crisis the project shifted its focus to three areas. The first is an Early Child
Care Development (ECCD) program. Under this grant 30,000 children aged 0-6 are covered at an annual
cost of child/per capita US$18.50. This includes initial investment costs for set-up of activities, equipment
and pedagogic material and training. The projected per capita cost for subsequent years is US$11. The
ECCD so far has resulted in a very cost-effective program as compared with governmental pre-primary per
capita spending of US$1,120. ECCD currently covers only about 20% of all Macedonian children in
pre-primary age, while another 11% of children in the same age group are covered by other governmental
and non governmental programs, leaving about 69% of all children aged 0-6 uncovered by any program.
The second area of focus of the post-conflict grant is on life education activities in what have come to be
called Babylon youth centers. The grant has been reaching approximately 12,500 children and adolescents
(ages 7-18 years) at a per capita cost of US$53 for the first year. The projected per capita cost for
subsequent years will progressively drop to US$34. This is currently the only available public program
addressing life education for youth in FYR Macedonia. However, this program is currently limited to 8
urban centers, thereby ignoring the significant needs in rural areas, and also neglects the critical vulnerable
age group of youths aged 19 to 24.
The third area of focus is a drug abuse prevention program implemented by the Agency for Youth and
Sports in 55 secondary schools around the country.
- 3 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The purpose of this LIL is to experiment with scaling up the activities in support of youth initiated under
the post-conflict grant. Quantitatively the program will be expanded by establishing 23 new centers and
expanding the drug abuse prevention program to all secondary schools in the country and to the Babylon
Centers. Qualitatively, the LIL will address the following innovations:
*      Unlike the earlier emphasis of the post conflict grant on urban areas, the LIL will attempt to reach
out to rural youth through mobile outreach and small youth centers in rural areas set up as satellite units
for the larger urban-based centers.
*      The 18-24 years age group poses a particular challenge. The LIL will extend the approach to this
group, while maintaining activities targeting adolescents and youth under 18 in the existing youth centers.
Targeting different age groups will require considerable innovation in program content.
*      The project will specifically pursue a gender balance in life skills/leadership training and
participation in youth activities, targeting in particular female drop-outs from secondary school. This
approach to gender presents several challenges as it involves older adolescent girls and young women who
face increasing social exclusion, particularly if they belong to disadvantaged ethnic communities.
The program as originally conceived was not sustainable without considerable external financing.
Thus one of the challenges of the LIL is to promote sustainability both by lowering costs and by increasing
local financing. To this end, over a three year period the youth centers will receive progressively
decreasing financing from the project. Meanwhile, the centers will receive assistance to build capacity for
attaining self-sustainability through increased local govemment contributions, beneficiary fees, and private
sector contributions.
-     Finally, the project will experiment with new approaches to providing living skills for youths, by
establishing a mechanism to solicit and then fund proposals for activities in this area.
In addition the project will seek to anchor this expansion and innovation in a national youth strategy. To
this end the strategy under preparation by the Agency for Youth and Sports will be strengthened through
the introduction of participatory approaches.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
El Economic    El Technical    O Social          I Participation
E Financial     Z Institutional  O Environmental El Other
Institutional
The project is expected to produce lessons on how to (i) scale up an innovative program of life education
for vulnerable youth; (ii) make this program sustainable; (iii) involve communities in supporting their own
social and human resource development; and (iv) develop appropriate policy in a sustainable, participatory
way. These lessons should contribute to the institutionalization of the approach and possibly its extension
to other sectors.
-4 -



Social
The main learning and innovation expectation relates to the empowerment of youth from different ethnic
groups between the ages of 15 to 24. They are expected to become agents to foster social change in their
respective communities and inter-ethnic cohesion in the country. This social development expectation
involves a process of cultural change in the perception of self and others involving greater individual
responsibility for one's own well-being and that of the community and the environment. This empowerment
is expected to: (a) enhance inter-ethnic cohesion; (b) contribute to the prevention of drug abuse; and (c)
promote the development of a better-prepared cohort of employable youth.
Participation
The project will experiment with increasing participation in three ways. First, it will promote the active
participation of youths in their own communities. Second, it will encourage the involvement of local
communities in running the centers. For example, an important role has been played by young volunteers
who used to attend the centers as beneficiaries and are now running some of the programs and activities.
And third, it is expected that cost recovery through users' charges and private sector contributions will
increase over the life of the LIL, a financial indication of participation by interested communities in project
activities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Antnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will address several major social issues:
(a)   the vulnerability of youth between ages 14 to 24, of whom more than 70 percent are
unemployed (this is the highest ever level for this country and a level twice as high as that of such
neighboring countries as Croatia and Bulgaria);
(b)   the high drop out rates from secondary education among ethnic minorities and particularly
among girls;
(c)   the very limited amount of life skills education (such as inter-generational relations, sex
education, interpersonal and communication skills, team work and participation in community life,
etc.) given to adolescents in schools and informal leaming venues;
(d)   the strongly felt need by youth to have increase access to foreign language and IT training,
as well as cultural activities.
The project is designed to respond to the needs of young people (both school and after school age) through
a variety of education for life programs. The major portion of the programs are already defined and consist
of extensions of ongoing activities. Other programs will be tested through an interactive process, with the
target population at the center stage in planning, implementing, and managing the programs. All programs
will rely on the support of the central government, local authorities, and private parties, both Macedonian
and foreign.
The proposed project will provide funding and carry out activities under the two components described
- 5 -



briefly below and in greater detail in Annex 2.
Component 1: Youth (US$3.45 million)
This component will carry out three main activities: (1) scale up the program of life education for youth
through Babylon youth centers; (2) explore new innovative approaches for youth social integration by
piloting new forms of outreach and targeting; and (3) expand the Agency for Youth and Sport's innovative
drug abuse prevention program to all secondary schools in Macedonia and to the Babylon centers.
Under this component, the project will: (i) continue to test methods and experimentation through the 8
existing Babylon youth centers; (ii) support the expansion of this program to an additional 15 sites under
the Post-Conflict Grant (which has resources to cover the initial investment costs but not staff costs nor
program and activities development); and (iii) establish an additional 8 centers to experiment with
innovative new approaches. In the latter case, the programs will be established in existing buildings among
which small youth centers in rural areas to be set up as satellite units for the larger urban-based centers.
They will be proposed by potential sponsors (local NGOs) in a demand-driven selection process, designed
to elicit innovative ideas, particularly in disadvantaged areas. Criteria for the selection of these new centers
are identified in the Operational Manual. These are based on lessons learned from the existing centers and
include: (a) geographical coverage based on ethnic diversity, needs, and the availability of social services
for the youth; (b) capacity, efficiency and experience with participatory approaches of the existing NGOs;
(c) youth participation in the management of the youth centers; and (d) scope and potential for community
ownership.
The beneficiaries of the existing centers are currently nearly 12,500 children/youth aged 7-18, their parents
and teachers. Many young volunteers aged 15-24 also participate in the centers' activities. The youth
activities are totally inter-ethnic and cover sports, computer and IT training, English language, social skills
and creativity (art, music, drama, etc.), journalism, debates, seminars and workshops, additional to the
regular scholastic activities which cover 60 percent of those age cohorts.
The existing programs for children include such activities as: (a) creativity (handicrafts, games, drawing,
music and drama); (b) computer training; (c) basic English; (d) social skills; and (e) sports/physical
exercise. For the adolescents and teenagers, activities include: (I) information technology; (2) English; (3)
introduction to legal issues (constitutional law, human rights, democracy, civic education and
participation); (4) social skills; (5) debating, including role playing, by the teenagers themselves on critical
issues for youth; (6) sports; (7) joumalism; and (8) environmental awareness activities. Parents are also
benefiting from these centers through their increased awareness of adolescent issues, as these themes are
discussed in the documentation distributed by the centers (paper, seminars or videos) and during events
organized within the centers.
in addition this component will fund the of the drug abuse prevention program implemented by the Agency
for Youth and Sports to all 92 secondary schools existing in the country and to the Babylon youth centers,
coupled with support for the consolidation of the program's organization.
This component includes financing of goods, local consultants, and salaries and operating costs for the
Babylon youth centers.
Component 2: Institutional Development (US$ 0.56 million)
The institutional development component is intended to support and consolidate the youth component by:
-6 -



(i) supporting the participatory development of a Children and Youth Strategy to promote ownership and
sustainability of the proposed program among the policy mak-ers and communities; (ii) the establishment of
a monitoring mechanism to facilitate institutional learning and improvement of the program inter alia by
monitoring social trends affecting youth and beneficiaries' responsiveness to program activities and
awareness raising programs; (iii) a public information campaign about the program; and (iv) facilitating the
continuation of the Early Child Care Development Program under possible donor co-financing. This
component also includes the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU).
The Children and Youth Strategy will aim at: (i) fostering institutional cooperation at the national and
municipal levels to support project objectives in a sustained way; (ii) strengthening the operational
partnerships between local NGOs and communities on children and youth issues; (iii) dissenminating best
practices gleaned from ongoing and future activities; and (iv) establishing a coordination process at the
institutional level. One objective of the strategy will be to mainstreaming children and youth issues and
human rights as areas of public concem in a manner that is gender-focused and sensitive to issues of
children's rights. On a practical level, the Strategy would also define how to:
* Cover the recurrent costs of chhild and youth-related activities;
* Ensure continuity in the supply of affordable youth programs of good quality;
*   Promote the pragmatic approach that youth programs should be delivered "wherever youths gather
in numbers", including at schools, fairs, street events, youth camps, sports halls, culture houses,
and cyberspace.
The implementation of project will be supported by a proactive public outreach campaign. The campaign's
prime objective is to sensitize the Macedonian public at large as well as specific project stakeholders to the
situation of children and young people in Macedonia. In so doing, the campaign will also support public
participation of concerned individuals and institutions in articulating their opinions in regard to the
subsequent stages of project implementation, and thus contribute to its monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms.
To keep the Strategy up to date and signal the possible need for its modification, trends on selected key
children and youth issues will be monitored. Particular reference will be directed towards social indicators
such as drug abuse, alcoholism, criminal offenses by minors and youth, teenage pregnancies, violence
against minors, infringement of human rights, as well as tracers of greater social cohesion, increased
community participation, improved inter-ethnic dialogue and other measurable phenomena. As part of the
Monitoring and Evaluation activities, the PMU will identify the adequate capacity and promote
partnerships with the National Office for Statistics, and /or other relevant department within universities
and /or the national agency for Youth and Sport in order to develop baseline indicators, yearly beneficiary
assessments, and other appropriate tools.
Arrangements are being made with bilateral donors to set up parallel financing to continue to implement
and institutionalize the Early Child Care and Development (ECCD) activities carried out under the
post-conflict grant and implemented by UNICEF. These activities benefit families and very young children
by promoting proper health, nutrition, social, intellectual and emotional development through a Better
Parenting Program. These activities will be implemented by UNICEF under the coordination of the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Child Protection Department. As donor financing becomes available,
this project will provide support to this program through its monitoring and evaluation and outreach
campaign subcomponents.
This component includes financing of limited goods for the PMU, local and international technical
- 7-



assistance and staff and operating costs for the PMU.
!g&ri ;enc-S<ii3945 hidl,tive;12y %z f
1. Youth                           Social Funds        3.45      86.0       2.00      80.0
2. Institutional Development (Strategy,  lnstitutional  0.56      14.0      0.50      20.0
PMU set up, M&E, Public Information  Development
Campaign)
Total Project Costs                   4.01     100.0       2.50     100.0
Interest during construction                 0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                    0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    4.01      100.0      2.50      100.0
2. Institutional and implementafion arrangements:
The Project is to be implemented over a period of four years. The project will be under the institutional
responsibility of the Agency for Youth and Sports for general directives, periodical progress reviews, and
annual planning for the implementation of the two project components. The project will be managed by the
PMU to be hosted in the Agency for Youth and Sports. A Project inter-ministerial Steering Committee
(comprised of appointed representatives of the ministries of Education, Labor and Social Policy, Culture,
Local Government, Finance, plus representatives from Open Society Institute, UNICEF, and three
Macedonian NGOs) will oversee the project activities' selection process. During appraisal it was agreed
that the LIL will support the establishment of 8 new youth centers which will be selected during the first
year of project management. The project Operational Manual indicates selection criteria, eligible activities,
management criteria, NGO eligibility, minor rehabilitation works to be carried out, cost recovery
mechanisms and environmnental regulations for the youth centers. Partnerships will be established with the
University of Skopje, NGOs with a substantial track record in Youth activities (such as HOPS-Macedonia,
and the Open Society Institute-Soros) and local communities (municipalities, towns, villages).
Implementation will resort almost exclusively to Macedonian human resources and will be carried out by
the organizations being financed or contracted out by them.
Financial Management
This newly established PMU will be responsible for operating the financial management system of the
project. The project's accounting will be based on a software that will be able to produce all the reporting,
including the quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), required by the Bank. The software will be
purchased before negotiations and the system will be in place prior to credit approval.
Prior to negotiations, the PMU had also appointed, on a part-time basis, the Agency's Finance Manager as
project accountant, responsible for the accounting and disbursement matters. The accountant has some
previous disbursement and accounting experience in Bank-financed projects in Macedonia.
In order to set up this financial management system and to give some hand-holding training to the newly
appointed accountant, the PMU will appoint a local short-term accounting consultant, with experience in
WB projects, who will: (i) assist the PMU in setting up the financial management system of the project; (ii)
assist the PMU in customizing the accounting software and procedures to the Project Appraisal
- 8 -



Document-PAD; (iii) provide, during the financial management system's implementation, on the job
training to the project's accountant; (iv) assist the PMU in the preparation of the project's Accounting
Manual; and (v) provide, if needed, some post-implementation assistance to the project accountant. It is
estimated that the consultant could carry out the implementation assignment within two to three weeks.
This assignment will be carried out prior to negotiations.
Since under this project some entities will receive financial assistance from the project, the PMU will
require these beneficiaries to (i) maintain a simple cash-basis, single entry accounting system and (ii) set up
a simple reporting system on the uses of the funds disbursed. The PMU, with the assistance of the
consultant, will design a simple, standard and manual accounting system that will be adopted by each
beneficiary, as a condition for receiving the grants, and will also set up a simple control system that will
allow to verify the financial information.
The PMU, with the assistance of the short term consultant; will also prepare the project's Accounting
Manual that will cover: (i) the financial management arrangements for the project, with special emphasis on
accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (ii) the format and content of project
financial reporting; (iii) the audit arrangements; (iv) accounting and control requirements for the recipients
of the project's financial assistance; and (v) budgeting and planning arrangements.
The PMU will be responsible for appointing the auditor and for ensuring that the financial statements,
Special Account and SoE are audited by an independent intemational auditor, member of a professional
body that is a member of the lntemational Federation of Accountants, acceptable to the Bank. The PMU
will send the annual audit report to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. For FY01,
the PMU will appoint the auditor no later than mid-May 2001.
The Project will initially disburse under the Bank's traditional disbursement method, including the use of
Statement of Expenditure (SOE), with the future option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method with the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account at the Central Bank.
The Bank's Financial Management Specialist will assess the project's financial management system and
issue the Financial Management Certificate by early June 2001.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
As a LIL, this project focuses on experimenting in a variety of areas related to increasing inter-ethnic
cohesion among youth at risk from different socio-cultural backgrounds. In order to draw lessons from this
process of experimentation, and improve performance along the way, the arrangements for monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) are critical. Under the project, M&E will focus on three levels. First, the PMU will
track overall project performance and the performance indicators defined in Annex 1, regularly reporting on
these to the Bank. Second, mechanisms of participatory M&E will be established to strengthen the
performance of the youth centers, both individually and in general. And third, a program to monitor key
indicators related to youth will be developed initially as an input to the Children and Youth Strategy and
subsequently to monitor and improve the impact of its implementation.
The M&E studies, workshops as well as the national baseline study and updates will be contracted out to
social scientists, universities, foundations, NGOs, the office of statistics, and/or specialized technical
-9-



agencies with experience with youth and children issues. Local and international technical assistance will
be provided to assist in the design and implementation of the M&E system and in ensuring independence of
judgment and external observation.
General Performance Monitoring
The PMU will establish a computerized Management Information System (MIS) to facilitate general
performance monitoring and reporting. The monitoring system will track progress of specific project
activities, disbursements, delays and overruns, and will produce reports geared to daily management
decision-making as well as reports to the Steering Committee, the Agency for Youth and Sports, other
stakeholders, and the Bank. Staff managing project activities will be required to submit brief quarterly
progress reports, in addition to the annual PMU project progress report, on progress in their areas of
responsibility. The monitoring system will also keep track of training, capacity building both for the youth
center staff and the local govemment representatives, and public outreach activities. The monitoring
system will also benefit from inputs from the monitoring at both the national and youth center levels. In
particular, the PMU will monitor the performance indicators defined in Annex I and prepare the Table of
Performance Indicators to be included in Project Supervision Reports for all supervision missions, for its
annual reports to the Bank, for the mid-term review, and at project completion.
In order to facilitate the start-up, implementation, and evolution of this process of institutional learning, a
monitoring and evaluation and MIS specialist will be employed as a part time consultant by the Project
Management Unit. This specialist will work extensively with project staff and project beneficiaries on the
design and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system both at the operational and
national/policy levels. This function will be supported by periodic local and international technical
assistance over the course of the project. This work will be closely coordinated with the studies and
outreach activities within the communities where the centers are established.
A mid term review will take place during the life of the project in order to track progress of project
implementation and a post evaluation will be carried out 18 months after project completion. The post
evaluation will mainly focus on issues of institutional and financial sustainability.
Participatory Monitoring and the Youth Centers
The primary area of experimentation under the project is in the youth centers. In order to make this
experimentation a success, feedback processes are necessary to judge the results of experimentation and
improve performance. In effect, what is needed is a systematic process of institutional learning on three
levels: the youth centers, the surrounding communities, and the national level. This process will be
supported by systematic data collection.
At project start up for existing centers and elsewhere prior to the opening of new centers, surveys will be
carried out in the concemed communities to establish stakeholder priorities, identify key youth issues, and
determine the willingness of stakeholders to pay for services. There will be yearly beneficiary assessments
to test the level of satisfaction at the community level among project beneficiaries, identify the trends in
demand for given programs, and monitor changes in: (i) attitudes of key stakeholders; (ii) participation of
volunteers; (iii) users' fees, donations and in kind contributions; and (iv) YCs sustainability.
In the youth centers staff and youths engage in regular processes of brainstorming and sharing of best
practices. In addition, the centers' elected representatives will meet in seminars/workshops together with
the regional representatives of the centers at least twice a year. In these workshops experiences of new
- 10 -



programs, new activities and best practices will be shared. Particular attention will be given to addressing
the extent of involvement of young people from 18-24, rural populations, and specific vulnerable groups.
Results from beneficiary assessments and satisfaction surveys will also be discussed during the workshops.
in addition, regional coordinators will meeting regular (at least once every two months) in order to prepare
the workshops and the information sharing activities and to program ways of detecting and involving
particular vulnerable groups who may not be attending the centers and engaging them in specific
managerial coordination activities.
The above flow of information and learning will then be shared with the local government and the
community as a whole through meetings with parents' associations, communal and municipal
representatives, and the regional and the centers' coordinators. Workshops will be organized with the local
government and the community to inform them about the results of surveys and beneficiary assessments,
engaging them in discussions and decision making initiatives on new programs and approaches within the
centers.
At the national level, both the Steering Committee and the Agency for Youth and Sports (AYS) will be
informed of the centers' programs, new approaches, and pilot initiatives at the local level and will
participate in workshops where results from the baseline study and social trends analysis, beneficiary
assessments, and beneficiary contribution mechanisms will be discussed and constitute grounds for
decision-making at the policy level.
Monitoring of National Children and Youth Trends
A baseline study will be carried out in at least 5 sites, including both project and non project sites and
selected to capture differentiation in terms of geography, ethnic composition, unemployment, and types of
economic activity (including legal and illicit). The study will be carried out during the first year of the
project in order to: (i) identify major social problems in targeted communities (such as drug abuse, early
pregnancy, criminal offenses by minors, female drop-out rates in secondary schools); (ii) compare the
situation of children and youth who are benefitting from the project with those who are not in these
communities; (iii) analyze the types, cost and availability of and/or access to services and programs; (iv)
identify levels of community participation; and (v) assess the variation in social indicators between different
parts of the country. Subsequent studies will be periodically used to update the baseline study and monitor
trends (every year). In addition, central and local government budget allocations for youth activities'
recurrent costs will be monitored.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph 8: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
See Annex 4.
-1 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
*   See the Sustainability Plan in Annex 11.
As to financial govemance, the PMU will receive appropriate training in financial practices, budgeting,
procurement, accounting, internal control, auditing, and reporting.
Fiscal Impact:
The Central Government will provide counterpart funding in kind and cash through the Agency of Youth
and Sports for the entire duration of the project. The in kind contribution will be equivalent of
approximately US$ 50,000 for financing of some PMU staff (accountant and PMU Director) and rent of
PMU offices. The cash contribution is estimated at about US$ 250,000, inclusive of taxes, over the life
of the project The governmuent is therefore expected to cover all taxes on goods/works/services procured
under the project which are estimated at about US$ 50,000. The cash contribution of the central
government includes expenses for communications and electricity and vehicle operating costs for the PMU
and other expenditures for youth centers equipment (computers, VCR, printers and pedagogical material).
At the start of the project, the first installment to be deposited in a government project account will be
equivalent to US$70,000 and will be followed by subsequent deposits of US$60,000 every January there
after, until the end of the project.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
* An Operational Manual has been agreed upon with the Agency for Youth and Sports during the
Appraisal Mission. The manual would include demand-driven mechanisms, targeting procedures,
outreaches well as procurement and accounting provisions.
* The Project includes some technical assistance for appraising and revising programs presented for
financing.
4. Institutional:
The total Project amount is US$4 million equivalent, to be financed by IDA through a credit of US$2.5
million, by a national contribution of US$1.15 million equal to about 29% of the total cost of the project
and by UNICEF with a contribution of about US$0.36 million, equivalent to about 9% of the total cost of
the project. For the remaining amount, the project will also benefit from contributions from local
communities, municipalities, and non-governmental organizations, both Macedonian and foreign. The
Project will be implemented in four years. ln addition, the Italian, Canadian, Swiss and Dutch Governments
have been contacted for supplemental financing. The following paragraphs reflect the agreements reached
between the GoM and the World Bank on the project design and preparation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Agency for Youth and Sports will be the lead agency responsible for project implementation. The
Director of the Agency will appoint the Project Director who will oversee the overall implementation of the
project and report to the Director of the Agency for Youth and Sports. The project components will be
- 12 -



managed through a small Project Management Unit, PMU, to be set up in the Agency. Agreement with the
Agency on technical aspects are at an advanced stage. The Agreement includes: (i) the Operational Manual
and the Project Implementation Plan which sets the guidelines for project implementation; (ii) procuremnent
of goods and services; (iii) financial management; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; (v) Technical Assistance
for any of the above functions.
A Project Steering Committee is formed with appointed representatives of the ministries of Education,
Labor and Social Policy, Culture, Local Government, Finance, of the Open Society Institute, UNICEF, and
two Macedonian NGOs. The Steering Committee will meet at least twice a year to review the progress
achieved and to provide general policy guidance. The first meeting of the Steering Committee was held
during the appraisal mission.
in order to select Youth Centers to be supported under the project, a Youth Centers Appraisal Committee
will be formed with the membership of: (i) the Director of the Agency for Youth and Sports; (ii) the Project
Director; (iii) the PMU Coordinator; (iv) a representative from a local youth NGO experienced in
community-based youth projects and non political affiliation; and (v) and a representative from UNICEF.
The Selection Committee will meet at least three times during the first year of the project implementation
and will select the youth centers' applications on the basis of the selection criteria and procedures
illustrated in the Operations Manual. The primary implementing institution will be the Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy.
4.2 Project management:
A small Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established in the Agency for Sports and Youth for the
purpose of preparing and implementing the project. Day to day project responsibilities of the PMU will
include overall project administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and
supervision. The PMU will also perform a liaison role with the non-govenmmental and private sector and
will benefit from relevant capacity building and training. The PMU staff will consist of: (i) a Project
Coordinator, who will manage the day-to-day activities in coordination with the Project Director, (ii) a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; (iii) a Procurement Specialist; and (iv) a Staff Assistant The PMU
staff will be selected on a competitive basis, except for the Project Director who will be appointed by the
Agency and financed outside of the project, with a no objection by the World Bank. The selection of staff
shall be advertised in local newspapers and candidates will be requested to submit their CVs. The Agency
will appoint on a part-time basis the Agency's Finance Manager as the project accountant.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirement Review
The PMU has limited experience in managing and implementing WB financed projects and they have not
developed dedicated staff from these projects to manage future WB projects. However, the PMU has
agreed to select the procurement officer with experience in international procurement, particularly with the
WB projects. In the light of the lack of experience and the general procurement environment in the country
that is not conducive to efficient and transparent procurement, this project has been put in the high risk
category.
In general there are no outstanding procurement issues and Annex 6 provides a full presentation of
proposed procurement methods.
- 13-



Secdon 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date    Estimated date    Indicate if there    Domestic   Domestic
of Project       of publication of  is procurement    Preference for  Preference
Launch           General          subject to       Goods             for works
Workshop         Procurement      mandatory SPN                      if applicable
07/00 /01        Notice           in Development                     Yes
O6itWU)It:I      Business         No 0             No (X)
No-xJ
Retroactive financing             Advance procurement
Yes            No [x1            Yes [I        No fxJ
Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be established at the PMU. which
will collect and update all procurement data. The PIM), will use this data in progress reports to the Bank.
Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: There is no co-financing.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the Project: Name: Naosi:ad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist El. x 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: None
During appraisal, the mission examined efficiency considerations with reference to availability of adequate
technical capacity by NGOs and CBOs; community ownership of the project concept and participation.
Selection criteria, particularly for the new youth centers to be funded under the LIL, will be refined over the
next few months of piloting. The project Steering Committee will oversee the selection process of the youth
centers. ln regards to the human resources of the youth centers, staff will be hired to set-up the centers,
train volunteers, design and implement activities. Once capacity has been adequately developed, youth
centers will take over these responsibilities (not funded by the project). The PMU will select - nation-wide -
local NGOs according to standard procedures (CQ) and then the NGOs will be responsible to select
consultants/staff for the youth centers.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PMU will receive training in financial management as part of project training (budgeting, accounting,
internal control, auditing, and reporting). All those entities that receive financial assistance through the
project will be required to prepare budget and financing plans that correspond to Bank procurement
guidelines. All activities funded under the project will be encouraged to plan for the period following the
completion of the project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and Iheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental review of the project has been carried out and the environmental impact of project
activities has been assessed as minimal. Minor environmental issues may relate to human health and safety
-14 -



such as noise, dust, toxic material, waste disposal due to works for the rehabilitation of the youth centers
(simple rehabilitation of existing buildings), treatment of proper drainage of hygienic services and paint
materials. No negative environmental effect can be expected on habitat, natural resources or landscape. On
the contrary the project is expected to increase public environmental awareness among the population as
environment improving components are within the project scope. The project is assigned category B, since
some minor civil works are planned for rehabilitation of 8 youth centers. A draft EMP was developed
during project preparation to identify project activity impact and mitigation measures. The EMP is an
integral part of the Project Implementation Plan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EIvLP and are they adequate?
The EMP focuses on issues and mitigation measures related to minor rehabilitation works, including the
use of asbestos, lead paint, safe disposal of waste material, dust, noise and community awareness. The
EMP provides also a brief description of the existing Macedonian regulations on rehabilitation works as
well as a monitoring plan for compliance with the EMP requirements.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timneline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environnental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Widespread consultations with stakeholders have been carried out during project preparation, although,
given the minor nature of the environmental issues, there were no dedicated environmental consultations.
Further consultations with project participants are planned during project implementation, including
community awareness on the environmental aspects of the project.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Monitoring of project environmental compliance will be performed by the PMU as part of its project
management and supervision responsibilities. In addition to the PMU, environmental monitoring will be
performed by the company/engineer in charge of supervising and ensuring the quality of the rehabilitation
works from design to implementation. As part of their terms of reference, the firm, supported by the PMU,
will ensure that the communities are informed about the rehabilitation plans. Monitoring activities will be
carried out according to the monitoring plan described in the EMP. The EMP includes simple indicators for
compliance with its requirements.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
On social grounds, the main issue will be to direct the Project's inputs to the deprived areas and social
groups in terms of: poverty, access to services, social marginalization, ethnic disparity, and gender gaps. ln
balancing the programs' portfolio, additional considerations will be to favor programs with higher
self-sustainability and undertakings with wider and lasting social cohesion impact. The Operational Manual
will provide criteria to ensure adequate selection of beneficiaries in diverse regional settings, particularly to
the Youth Component. The Steering Committe will oversee the overall selection process undertaken by the
PMU, while the Monitoring and Evaluation System will allow to closely monitor the Project's focus on
vulnerable and deprived groups, and also provide feedback to the strategy.
- 15-



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Project requires the fullest participation from authorities, private civic groups and beneficiaries. The
latter will be implementers of programs as contractors, volunteer service-givers or as field personnel of
the public administration.
The prerequisites for an extensive participation already exist as a result of previous social development
initiatives piloted by the World Bank. The widespread presence of local informal organizations of a
spontaneous nature suggests people's awareness of the need to participate. A network of trained social
assistants, field workers and volunteers is already in operation or can be called to action by the Project.
Aside from the communities and the single direct beneficiaries, a major stake in the Project's success will be
held by the families of the children, adolescent and youth participating in the Project. Also an important
stake will be held by the service-givers such as, social assistants, group leaders, teachers for non-scholastic
activities, technical instructors, young entrepreneurs, youth volunteers, NGO personnel, meetings'
organizers, moderators, spoke-persons, etc.
An Assessment of Youth Centers (Post-Conflict Grant) was completed in November 2000 (see annex 16)
6.3 How docs the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and CBOs, the local and central government and the private sector, will be asked to participate in
public consultations and workshops during the life of the project where needs for training, funding and
institutional strengthening are felt. Priorities for intervention will be identified and discussed during these
consultations, and decisions will be taken in a participatory manner.
During the appraisal mission, a consultative stakeholder workshop was organized by the World Bank and
UNICEF in the framework of the preparation of the Children and Youth Development Project.
Stakeholders included representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Education and Health and the Agency for
Youth and Sports, representatives of the Local Governments (Negotino, Kocani, Tetovo, Kohce) various
NGOS including SOROS, the League for Albanian Women, Step by Step, UNICEF staff for both the
ECCD and youth activities and beneficiaries and young volunteers from the Youth centers (Stip,
Kumanovo, Krusevo, Struga) and ultimately donors (Dutch and Italian cooperation, the King Badouin
Foundations and ECHO).
The workshop had a twofold objective: (i) describing the existing experience (already piloted under the Post
Conflict Grant) with children and youth of 7-14 and 15 to 20 years of age (Babylon Youth Centers) and
illustrating some of the main features of the project under preparation; and (ii) providing the opportunity to
all stakeholders to participate in the design of the project by expressing their views, inputs, ideas and
concerns.
Beneficiaries of the current youth Babylon programs reported the general success of the activities measured
by the large attendance at the centers, high demand which results in the waiting list in each location where
centers are operating, and the great commitment of young volunteers in the centers.
At large, the youth centers are considered as a great opportunity for enhancing: (i) cohesion within the
community; (ii) leaming and skill development; (iii) young people self-esteem and sense of pride for their
volunteer work; (iv) exposure to different cultures (national and international), travel within their own
- 16-



country and development of friendship across the country; (v) awareness of the problems of the community.
Main conclusions:
(a)    Sustainability.   The importance of the youth centers and sustainability of their programs was
expressed by both local governments (demonstrated their involvement with the concession of premises) and
the youth centers' staff that highlighted their activities of fundraising (promotion and selling of
products and items produced in the centers, cultural events, etc.). For the future, sustainability has been
described as: (a) willingness to increase local governments funds conditional to the new law on
self-government; (b) need to involve private sector through donations, sponsorships, etc.; (c) possible
special trust funds from the central government to the municipalities for youth programs; and from the
municipalities directly to the Babylon centers; and (d) fund raising activities of the local government such
as renting premises to NGOs, etc.
(b)    Outreach. An area of improvement is the outreach to rural, remote and suburban areas which is
still not fully achieved by the current Babylon centers. Crucial needs and the opportunity for the Babylon
centers to improve their outreach design was indicated as: (i) the need for the children and youngsters of
remote and rural areas to participate and be active supporter (as volunteers) to the youth centers programs;
(ii) the importance of having youngsters normally isolated in their communes exposed to the life and
activities that are carried out in the urban centers; and (iii) finally the value of exchanging the life
experience form different areas of the same region (rural, suburban urban). Three options were discussed:
(1) installation of new centers in the rural areas with the support of Municipalities (Koce); (2) creation of
satellite smaller units in the rural areas which are autonomous but depend from the central Babylon center
in the nearest urban center; and (3) transport of the beneficiaries from rural to urban areas and vice versa
to promote interaction and exposure to different life styles.
(c)    Targeting.    The current Babylon centers have been very successful in involving children and
youth but their targeting has mainly focused on children and youth from 14-18 living in urban areas.
Suggestions were given on how to improve outreaching and designing and tailoring of special programs and
activities to attract and target different groups among which:  (i) at risk cases such as drug addicted
youngsters, female school drop-outs, single mothers, etc.; (ii) 18-24 years old youngsters who are already
looking for jobs, getting married and emigrating abroad; (iii) Roma communities, etc.
(d)    Program for new activities. The participants raised the question on whether: (I) the centers'
programs and activities should be completely flexible and tailored according to the local needs, or (2)
should a core of already tested activities be kept for all Babylon centers especially as they represent the
general demand (i.e., languages and computer classes) and the piloted methodology which gives grounds to
replication. Conclusions were taken as to maintain a number of curricular activities (already tested during
the pilot phase) for the Babylon centers which are described in the Operational Manual under the Centers'
methodology and have regular beneficiary rapid assessment for the design of tailored activities which would
fit better with the needs of different communities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
It is expected that local NGOs and CBOs will be involved in project implementation. They will have an
important role to play in fostering community involvement and capacity building.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
M&E will include participatory instruments, which are especially meant to monitor performance of social
- 17 -



development outcomes (section Al): (i) beneficiaries satisfaction surveys testing the level of satisfaction at
the community level among project beneficiaries, the trend of the demand for given programs and providing
feedback to service providers and monitoring changes in attitudes of key stakeholders; (ii) regional annual
workshops with municipalities, local communities and local governments to promote information sharing
and feed-back on the results achieved.
A baseline study will be carried out in at least 5 sites, comprehensive of project and non project sites and
representative of some of the following criteria:  geographical, rural versus urban locations, ethnic
composition, unemployment, areas affected by trafficking activities, etc. The study will be carried out
during the first year of the project in order to: (i) capture and measure trends - reduction or stabilization or
increase - of some of the major social problems in targeted communities such as drug abuse, early
pregnancy, criminal offenses by minors, girls drop-out from secondary school; (ii) analyze the situation of
children and youth in these communities, the type, cost and availability and/or access of services and
programs; (iii) analyze trends in community participation; and (iv) assess the project social impact of the
above trends as compared to areas uncovered by project activities.    Subsequent studies will be
periodically used to update the baseline study (every year). The baseline study as well as the periodically
updated assessments will also inform the Children and Youth strategy through workshops and
dissemnination activities.
The M&E studies, workshops, as well as the national baseline study and updates will be contracted out to
social scientists, universities, foundations, NGOS, office of statistics, specialized technical agencies with
experience with youth and children issues.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    App.  - i ab-ltyI
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.31)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
- 18 -



.Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mltigatln Measure:;
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability in Macedonia is a     S         Use of grassroot organizations and wide
constraint for project implementation                 geographic distribution of youth activities so
that they would not just be concentrated in
potential conflict-affected areas.
Limited financial resources of local        M         World Bank policy dialogue on effective
governments to contribute to project                  decentralization, particularly in reference to
activities                                            social services.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of country's drive and resources for   M         The decentralized project approach and the
institutionalization of youth programs and            engagement of local governments as well as
Strategy.                                             youth and children NGOs will contribute to
maintain the national focus on the children and
youth policy agenda. Partnerships with bilateral
donors and specialized agencies will facilitate
fund-raising activities.
Lack of collaboration between Lead          N         Choice of adequate personnel in PMU, effective
Agency, Steering Committee, and PMU                   and representative selection of Steering
Committee members, and World Bank
continuous follow up.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* appointment of project auditor satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenanit types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Board presentation:
* establishment of the project financial management system satisfactory to IDA.
- 19-



Conditions of Disbursement
None
Other Conditions
(i)    The Borrower shall submit to IDA the project's audited financial statements within six months of
the end of every fiscal year;
(ii)   The Borrower shall submit the progress report to IDA every year;
(iii) The borrower will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA, the implementation of the project and the
achievement of the project's objectives;
(iv)   Baseline studies will be updated on a yearly basis;
(v)    A Mid Term Review will be carried out during project implementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
LI 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation, and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
II 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for appro .e project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
6A                 )A) /L
Gloria La Cava                   Alexandre Marc                    Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.        . . .   . . . . . .   . 
Hl41 th  ot                                                                       Atot~s ~ iiatr  io~oIta&E.ua.  rtical -Asumptn
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reporta:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1 Improvement in social   1.01 Significant improvement 1.01 Country Program    Pro-poor policy framework
cohesion especially between  in social cohesion throughout Appraisal Study     implemented
ethnic groups in FYR      FYROM society by 2010
Macedonia
Follow-on Development
Objective:
1 Sustainable Youth Center   1.01 Number of New Youth  1.01 Project Post Evaluation   Continued national economic
Programs throughout       Centers generated 5 years    follow up study and report   growth and development
Macedonia                 after project completion by
*  Other Donor Agencies
*  FYROM Agency for
Youth and Sports
* Local Government
entities
*  Private Sector
organizations
* Local Communities
1.02 Nurnber of existing  1.02 Project Post Evaluation
Youth Centers maintained 5  follow up study and report
years after project completion
by                        Budget Allocations for
* FYROM Agency for       recurrent costs
Youth and Sports
* Local Government       In kind contributions by local
entities              communities
* Private Sector
Organizations
* Local Communities
-21 -



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  .. ..... ..        . .   ...... .                       ..  ...  ...   . 7:E-E:-  ----E-. :  
.   -.... ......... ge;. . .    . . .... . ......
V. .01~ ~ ~ Ka  Performanca                                                                      "
Project Development           Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
1 Significant increase in     1.01 Affinity of YC           1.01 Annual attitudinal          *  Political stability
social cohesion through the    participants for ethnic groups  random sample survey          *  Inter-ministerial
social integration of youth at  significantly increased by end  Comprehensive End of Project    cooperation
risk from different           of project                    M&E random  sample survey,   *  Continued National &
scio-cultural backgrounds.                                  analysis and report                 Local Government, and
* Semi-annual Qualitative           community commitment
Observations by key               to decentralization and
informants and participants,      concomitant acceptance
by type of program                of responsibility for
providing social
services
* FYROM adoption of
national strategy for
children and youth
*  High demand by
communities to
establish
more--similar--Youth
Centers and programs
1.02 High level of satisfaction 1.02 Annual &
of target beneficiaries (Youth Comprehensive End of Project
& Parents) with YC Programs M&E random sample survey,
analysis and report
- 22 -



... ..   ...     ....   ..-:   : -:   e7   : -   :   -  ..   ..   ...
h i    -6  ti  - .-  I  i  W     -  :~~~~ ~~~                      ~     ~~ ii:. X .  .......
Ke  efrmaince::z.......
Hi ..ftwacyo b,tv                 i ctr          ~      tv i     vUtO            Criia   UsmI-ona,
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1 Program Operation &      1.01 At least 31 Youth    1.01 Annual project progress    * Political commitment,
Outreach Developed         Centers (YCs) --23 existing   reports                     with concomitant
Youth Centers (YCs)        YCs (urban) maintained by                                 resources, by FYROM
established and operational   project & 8 new ones                                   Government, donor
operational by end of project                             agencies, local
government units, and
communities to
maintain existing Youth
Centers
*  Adequate number of
1.02 At least 4 new Satellite  1.02 Annual project progress  community residents
Ycs for rural and suburban   reports                      willing to volunteer
youth operational by end of                               their time and effort in
the project                                               support
1.03 At least 5 new Mobile   1.03 Annual project progress
YCs for rural and suburban   reports
youth operational by end of
project
1.04 At least 10 YCs fully    1.04 Post Evaluation Study
sustainable (i.e. independent  18 months after project end
of project support but partially * Analysis of recurrent costs
funded by local authorities;    covered by municipal
and still maintaining a high    budgets
level of activity), by end of
project
1.05 Number of different  1.05 Annual review of Youth
categories of project     Center records
beneficiaries [open ended]
1.06 Ratio of Volunteers:  1.06 Annual review of Youth
Youth Center Participants,    Center records
per center [open ended]
2 Institutional Capacity   2.01 At least 100 Agency of  2.01 Annual project progress
Strengthened at Central    Youth and Ministries' officials reports
Ministry, Local Government  trained by end of project  * Training records
and Community Levels
2.02 At least 23 Local    2.02 Annual project progress
Government units          reports
participating in project by end
of project
2.03 At least 200 of Local    2.03 Annual project progress
Government officials trained  reports
by end of project
- 23 -



2.04 Public Outreach      2.04 Anmual project progress
Campaign designed and     reports
conducted 1 1/2 years after
start of project
2.05 National Strategy for    2.05 Annual narrative project
children and youth developed progress reports
by end of project
2.06 On going PMU         2.06 Quarterly narrative
Operations                project progress reports
2.07 Central Government    2.07 Annual project progress
budget allocations for   reports
recurrent costs
3 Robust Youth Center     3.01 Drug use trends by YC   3.01 Annual M&E random
Program Pilot Test        participants significantly  sample survey, analysis and
Conducted in terms of    lower than cohort          report, compared to baseline
participants ages; ethnicity   non-participants throughout  study
and gender ILIL Objectivel  the project             [Tentatively: Govemrnent
records, but appropriate Proxy
for Youth Center participants
and collection means is still to
be determined]
3.02 Secondary school     3.02 Annual M&E random
drop-out rate trends by YC    sample survey, analysis and
participants (particularly 15  report, compared to baseline
and 16 years old girls)   study
significantly lower than
cohort non participants
throughout the project
3.03 Percentage of 17-24 year 3.03 Annual PMU project
old girls managing Youth    progress report
Centers significantly
increased by the end of the
project
3.04 Unemployment trends by 3.04 Annual M&E random
17-24 year old YC         sample survey, analysis and
participants significantly  report compared to baseline
lower than cohort non    study
participants throughout the
project
- 24 -



3.01 Validity of the
3.05 Intemal Effectiveness    3.05 Aanual M&E focus  development hypothesis on
Assessment of various YC   group survey, analysis and    which LIL is based
program activities for 17-24  report                 --confirmed.
year old age group throughout Periodic Bank supervision
the project               missions
3.06 Percentage Level of  3.06 Annual M&E random
satisfaction by target    sample satisfaction survey,
beneficiaries (Youth &    analysis and report
Parents) with YC Program
throughout the project
3.07 "Willingness-to-pay" by  3.07 Annual M&E random
target beneficiaries, Local    sample "willingness-to-pay"
Authorities, and sponsors    survey, analysis and report
increases throughout the  * YC Funding support records
project to a sustainable level   by other donors, Local
by the end of the project   Authorities, other sponsors
- 25 -



- 4~~~~~~~~~~ ......A                                          ..........  .... ..   ....:- 
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1 Program Operation and    US$ 110,000                1.01 PMU Quarterly           * No significant civil
Outreach                                              disbursement reports            unrest during project
implementation
*  Sufficient personnel and
other resources (not
2 Institutional Capacity   US$ 31,600                 2.01 PMU Quarterly             funded under the
disbursement reports            project) available from
local governments
and/or communities to
manage, staff and
3 Youth Center Program     see 1 and 2 above          3.01 PMU Quarterly              operate YC program
Pilot Test                                            disbursement reports         *  High level of
cooperation and
collaboration between
Lead Agency, Steering
Committee and PMU
*  Partnerships with
bilateral donors and
specialized agencies
will continue to
complement project
operations
* Local resources are
adequate to manage
staff and operate PMU;
as well as participate in
local governrment and
other resource personnel
ID training programs
*  Qualified expat & local
resources are available
to design M&E
program conduct
annual sample surveys,
focus group
interviews/studies,
prepare analyses and
evaluation reports
-26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LIL)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.45 million
Component 1: Youth
This component aims at the social integration and empowerment of youth and children together with their
technical skill and confidence building. It will also aim at gradually contributing to develop organizational,
human and material resources at the local govemment level to implement youth programs and raise funds
for their sustainability. It will have three subcomponents:
Subcomponent 1: Youth centers support and set-up -- US$2.20 Million
During the second phase of the post conflict grant implementation, UNICEF has been piloting youth
activities in youth centers (Babylon centers) in 8 urban locations. Another 15 centers will be able to be
set-up still under the Post Conflict Grant which will cover initial investment costs but not the costs for the
staff not the program and activities development. These 15 centers will be selected following the same
project criteria for establishment of new 8 centers that will be indicated in the Operational Manual.
Therefore, under this component, the project will: (i) continue to test methods and the experimentation
carried out in 23 existing centers financed by the Post Conflict Grant; and (ii) establish 8 new centers to
pilot new forrns of reach-out and targeting. Specifically the 8 new centers will aim at targeting the 18-24
age-groups, youth and children from the most rural and isolated areas and some specific at risk cases, (i.e.,
street children, girl dropping out from secondary schools, Roma children. etc..). The existing centers
(Babylon centers) have demonstrated to be a very successful initiative but are still mainly concentrated in
urban areas and activities are mainly tailored for children and youth up to 18 years. The project under this
component aims at piloting activities in areas currently not covered by any youth program and attracting
youth from 18-24 with activities which include among others, distance learning, basic skill development,
etc...
The existing centers have resulted in a very successful initiative measured by: (i) the high and increasing
demand for participation in the various activities of the centers resulting in waiting lists in each
municipality; (ii) the willingness of many young beneficiaries to support the centers's activities as
volunteers; (iii) the involvement of parents and families in the activities of the centers (i.e., in Stip last year
all families have hosted young people from all over the country gathered for some special sport
competitions; and (iv) the response from Municipalities which have in all cases offered premises to host
the centers and the direct engagement of privates through participation and sponsorship to special events,
through making available transports, etc...
The project will support the process of taking over activities organized by the centers from local
governments and communities with support from the central government and provide technical assistance
(described in sub-component 2) directly to the PMU for the establishment of the centers and the follow-up
of their programs .
Criteria to locate the new centers will be identified during the first year of the project implementation, based
- 27 -



on lessons learned from the already existing centers and the operational manual. Tentative criteria include:
(a) geographical coverage based on needs and availability of social services for the youth and ethnic
diversity, etc. (b) existing local capacity, the efficiency of the existing NGOs and their participatory
approaches; and (c) scope for community ownership.
The new centers activities will be carried out in facilities already existing in the country under a variety of
headings which are offered by the municipalities such as: (i) Pioneers' Homes, sponsoring creative
activities and carrying out original programs with competent staff and attractive facilities; (ii)
extracurricular clubs and labs housed in schools to promote market skills development; (iii) the over 100
private associations dedicated to a wide range of activities: photo, cinema, music, "young technicians"; (iv)
several public culture houses, centrally or locally managed (after rehabilitation with Project support); (v) a
number of sports halls (competition and spectators' sports); and (vi) specific community initiatives, such as
environment improvement campaigns, traditional rallies, popular festivals, drills etc. In addition, small
youth centers in rural areas could be set up as satellite units for the larger urban-based centers.
Currently the beneficiaries are in average 400 for center with a national coverage of nearly 12,500
children/youth aged 7-24, in addition to their parents, teachers and community representatives. At present,
each center costs in average US$23,000 each year and the per capita cost for one year of activities is
US$53 per youth/child. Based on the experience of the Post Conflict Grant and the average yearly budget
for the Youth Component, the cost per beneficiary is expected to decrease from US$53 to US$34 between
2001 and 2005. At the same time the overall number of beneficiaries is expected to double over the life of
the project due to increased outreach, including rural areas, and increased cost effectiveness. On average,
the per capita beneficiary cost is US$47. This is currently the only available public program addressing life
education for youth in FYROM considering both public secondary school curricula and extracurricular
activities. The youth activities are totally inter-ethnic and cover sports, computer and IT training, English
language, social skills and creativity (art, music, drama, etc.), joumalism, debates, seminars and
workshops, additional to the regular scholastic activities.
Centers activities and programs.  The existing programs for children (7-14) include activities such as: (a)
creativity (handicrafts, games, drawing, music and drama); (b) computer training; (c) basic English; (d)
social skills;  and (e) Sport/physical exercise.   For the adolescents and teen-agers (15-24), activities
include: (a) information and connection technology, ICT; (b) English; (c) street law (constitutional law,
human rights, democracy, civic education and participation); (d) social skills; (e) debate, including role
playing, by the teenagers themselves on critical issues for youth, parents, friends, schools, careers, social
life, entertainment, etc.; (f) sports; and (g) joumalism. Parents are also benefiting from the above centers by
the increased awareness on adolescent and teenagers issues as these themes are discussed in the
documentation distributed by the centers (paper, seminars or videos) or during events organized within the
centers.
Since the very beginning, the Babylon centers have dedicated special attention to the multiethnic aspect of
the participants, by trying to improve confidence among different ethnic groups in Macedonia through
education activities focusing on social skills, communication capacity and personal growth. The centers are
for many children and young people the only places to meet representatives from other ethnic groups. In
fact, Macedonian society is becoming segregative in nature, with people lining in separate communities,
attending one-ethnicity schools or shifts and going out to separate cafes and other places of entertainment.
The centers' educators and facilitators are provided with training and seminars on techniques, methods and
ideas for creative work with children and youths of different ethnic background. Main teachings are in the
areas of communication with children; socialization and activities for developing children creativity; human
and minority rights; psycho-educative workshops training (Interethnic Relationship and Process of
-28 -



Integration; Conflict Resolution and Mediation in conflicts; Strengthening the Confidence, Respect and
Collaboration among the Children; Stereotypes, Prejudices and Multiculturalism; Group Decisions) and
non-competitive games.  Conflict prevention is observed in its widest meaning, not only its multiethnic
aspect, but considering also the generation conflicts, the gender conflicts, the peers conflict and social
conflicts in general.
Based on some preliminary activities tested during the Post-Conflict Grant, the project will also continue to
support those activities that promote environmental awareness and improve the environment. These types
of activities include: (i) pedagogical activities based on environmental themes such as writing essays on "
how to protect nature", literature reading drawings on the theme " don't pollute the surroundings"; (ii)
environmental awareness events and creations of logos for clean and healthy surroundings; (iii)
environmental clean-ups of surroundings, planting trees, garbage collection for recycling; and (iv)
excursions in environmentally endangered sites.
Staff. The centers are open all day, and beneficiaries attend activities usually for 3 hours. During the
whole day there are 3 three-hours shifts which maximize the number of beneficiaries and the access to
activities. The remunerated staff of the centers will include 5 persons (one coordinator, two educators and
two assistants/volunteers).   The centers' staff   will be responsible for carrying out the main
activities/courses such as English, ITC, Lifeskills (with a special emphasis on prevention of alcohol and
drug abuse, and AIDS/lyV, as well as responsible citizenship and communication skills), and co-ordination
functions. Furthermore, the staff includes three different groups of volunteers (not remunerated) that are
collaborating and helping to carry out the centers' activities: (i) teenagers who have already attended the
center's activities during a certain period and which carry out recreational activities (non competitive
games, etc..) and creativity classes; (ii) parents who are regularly involved in the management and
implementation of activities; and (iii) retired professionals who collaborate in given activities and /or some
teachers from local schools or other institutions (special institutions for disable children, social
organizations) and professionals from different fields (lawyers, doctors, engineers, etc.).
The project intends to cover the costs of the staff entirely during the first two years and expects the
Municipality to gradually take over the remuneration of the centers' staff after adequate fund raising order
to guarantee the centers sustainability.
Subcomponent 2: Technical assistance. capacity building and outreach -- US$1.098 Million
This sub-component deals with a number of activities which includes:
*   the technical assistance to the PMU for the youth centers set-up and support to the existing activities.
The PMU will be assisted initially, during the first two years by a local NGO, selected on a competitive
basis, which will have already proven experience in the establishment of youth centers and in the
design and implementation of programs for the youth and children. The idea is to optimize the
experience already in place in the country while gradually transferring knowledge and know-how to
local and central specialized institutions without losing momentum and avoiding any interruptions of
the current activities and programs.
*   capacity building and training for: (i) the centers staff; and (ii) for the local governments in order to
strengthen both their professional and technical capacity in designing, implementing and administering
community based social services for the children and youth. The focus will be on identifying
community and vulnerable groups needs, undertaking effective public outreach, fund raising and
mobilizing local and intemational non-governmental actors to participate in direct services provision
- 29 -



and delivery and thus guarantee the centers and programs sustainability. In addition , the centers staff
will be specifically trained on the subject of the classes provided in the centers, including building
knowledge about available information resources (intemet websites, libraries, etc).
* outreach and dissemination which will aim to promote new forms of programs and initiatives in
communities, especially in rural and isolated areas where there is no current programs for the youth
and children. The outreach will be part of the regular centers activities such as awareness raising,
social problem prevention, etc.. and will be carried out during workshops, seminars and special events.
It will specifically aim at including in the centers activities especially tailored for new target groups
(i.e., youth 18-24; at risk cases such as girls dropping out of school, Roma communities). In addition,
in five locations (tbd) a mobile outreach will be organized with vans fully equipped with pedagogic
material, video facilities and volunteers and will: (i) pilot the idea of having mobile youth units to serve
specific needs of rural and isolated areas where the municipalities are not able to open their centers
and/or where the incidence of social problems is particularly high; (ii) serve as transport facility for
exchange of children and youth from the rural to the urban areas and viceversa to enhance youth
exposure to the different life styles of the neighboring communities; and (iii) gather parents and youth
to attend to specific and ad hoc activities and events and serve as prevention, awareness raising with
the children and youth dynamics, problems and difficulties. Dissemination will be also achieved
through the creation of a web-page on youth problems, activities, programs, and useful links both for
the operators and for the direct beneficiaries.
-   Studies and beneficiary assessments. In the first year a study on small business development will
assess the needs of young people , the existing capacities, and the demand (current and potential) of
new slills and areas of expertise. in addition every year a beneficiary assessment will be undertaken
and carried out by local /intemational NGOs and other experts in order to monitor and evaluate the
centers activities, identify areas of need that are currently not met by the centers programs and propose
suggestions for change and improvement in the didactic objectives and results of the centers activities
also in terns of social inclusion, youth empowerment, etc... The beneficiary assessment will be carried
out in a participatory fashion with the participation of the centers beneficiaries, the local governments,
parents and other stakeholders involved in the activities of the centers or those that are excluded.
Subcomnonent 3. Drug prevention campaign -- U S$0. 134 Million
Another activity which is also ongoing as part of the post conflict grant pilot, is the funding of the
extension of a drug prevention program already implemented by the Agency for Youth and Sports to 92
secondary schools existing in the country, and the consolidation of the program's organization. According
to a Youth Needs and Resource Assessment, carried out in November 2000, the above are the only existing
systemic efforts specifically directed to youth in the country.
Project Component 2 - US$0.56 million
Component 2: Institutional Development
The institutional component is responsible for the PMU set-up, provision of technical assistance to the
PMU and the fornulation of a national strategy for children and youth.
Sub-component 1: PMU and technical assistance - $0.37 Million
The PMU, financed under the loan, will be responsible for implementation and management mainly in the
areas of, (i) project design and coordination; (ii) procurement; (iii) financial management and (iv) project
- 30 -



M&E. The positions of the above functions will be advertised and selected on a competitive basis. The
project Director will be appointed by the Agency for Youth and Sports who will also pay for his/her salary.
The loan will also cover the basic office supplies, a vehicle and related operational costs. A major PMU
achievement will be the effective and efficient application of the Operational Manual to screen financing
applications, decide on TA support and make annual performance reviews and allocations for the following
year.
The TA will consist in professional services from local and international consultants in three main areas:
Financial management, Procurement and Monitoring and Evaluation. Almost 60 % of the TA expenditure
is going to be concentrated in the first and second year.
Subcomponent 2: Strategy formulation and outreach -- $0.19 Million
Strategy. This sub-component aims at providing the country with a national strategy on children and youth
to integrate with the existing programs objectives and fill the gaps if needed. The strategy will look at all
the critical issues faced by children and youth such as " better parenting" and pre-school development
programs and non curricular educational programs for the youth. The strategy formulation requires to: (a)
integrate the existing relevant researches (such as the Assessment of the Needs and Resources of Children
and Youth, and the Assessment of Youth Centers, and UNICEF's MONE: Young People in Transition);
(b) carry out baseline surveys in representative ECCD and Youth centers; (c) design a set of social
indicators relevant to children and youth conditions and evolution trends; and (d) design a methodology to
monitor social trends and report feed back on a regular basis into the strategy.
The strategy will be coordinated by a team of consultants and NGOs selected by the PMU. Several
workshops will be held, in association with the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, the Ministry of
Education, UNICEF, and selected NGO exponents, to: (i) discuss fundamental strategy aspects (content,
sustainability, maximum population's coverage, and social equity) with representatives of central and local
administrations before presenting the draft document to the GoM; (ii) to disseminate information about the
strategy and invite support once the strategy is approved by the GoM; (iii) ensure the widest possible
consensus. Interactive strategy presentations will be made, at appropriate work stages, in several regional
capitals, notably Kumanovo, Kocani, Gevgeljia, Kavadarci, Bitola, Struga, Gostivar, Tetovo. The
Strategy should be completed and become effective in the first two years of the project.
Public Outreach Campaign.   The implementation of CYDP will be supported by a proactive public
outreach campaign. The campaign's prime objective is to sensitize the Macedonian public at large as well
as specific project stakeholders to the situation of children and young people in Macedonia. In so doing,
the campaign will also support public participation of the concerned individuals and institutions in
articulating their opinions in regard to the subsequent stages of project implementation, and thus contribute
to its monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
Under the Youth Component, the activities envisaged under the public outreach program will be geared
towards encouraging young people (age 15-24) to make use of the regional youth centers, particularly in
the areas where the new centers would be set up. In addition, the campaign will promote an understanding
among the general public about youth centers, their scope of activities and their impact on local
communities. Some of the resources envisaged under this subcomponent may also be used for public
information and communication programs relevant to particular regions and communities (e.g. multiethnic
relations, youth unemployment, crime, etc.). In this respect, the campaign's messages and target audiences
will be coordinated with other govemment-sponsored national campaigns such as e.g. the drug prevention
campaign. ln the longer term, the campaign will also target the international donor community operating in
-31 -



the Balkans as well as Macedonia's private sector to solicit their support for the youth centers and ensure
the centes' financial sustainability after project completion.
The exact messages and target groups for the campaign as well as its specific activities will be determined
on the basis of the existing as wel as future investigation to be commissioned under the project. The
campaign will run throughout the entire period of the project's implementation. However, most of the
campaign activities will take place during the first two years.
- 32-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
., ., ...  ....                       -' 'w''   ':                       ;  '  '''  ''"""
Local   ~Foreign         Total.
Institutional development                                    0.44          0.07           0.51
Youth                                                        3.06          0.08           3.14
Total Baseline Cost                                          3.50          0.15           3.65
Physical Contingencies                                      0.12          0.00          0.12
Price Contingencies                                         0.23          0.01          0.24
Total Project Costs                3.85          0.16          4.01
Interest during construction                   0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required                 3.85          0.16          4.01
Local n        oeg           Tota
PocCt;CtgyU mli                                         US- t tmo    U- --
Goods                                                          0.68           0.02          0.70
Service & Training                                             1.10           0.12          1.22
Reccurent Op. Cost                                             1.73           0.00          1.73
0.00           0.00          0.00
Unallocated                                                    0.35           0.01          0.36
Total Project Costs       3.86           0.15          4.01
Interest during construction                  0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required       3.86           0.15          4.01
Numbers may not add up due to rotnding
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 4.01 (US$Sn). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 62.34% of
totaw project cost net of taxes.
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
0.0.:.0-.";-gy.' ~ ~ ~ ~ ...     ......... "DSt''"''''       't    ""  -   ...  ..  ..     ...  j
f    ' jf'0 S  :?      f :  :    A0    0     0 0   ...::   .f....0..S  ....0...T.0.j;..f  ..ff-f   ..     ..   .   ....   ..'0.00'0-f:'f0'
Project Costs
As illustrated in Annex 11 the percapita cost of the World Bank funded youth centers is USS53 in
2001 will decline to USD 34 in 2005. Meaningful comparisons with other Youth centers and programs in
Macedonia are not possible. Youth-related services are provided by six types of organizations (as detailed
in the Assessment of Needs and Resourcesfor ECCD and Youth, 2000), such as Pioneer's Homes, Culture
Houses, and Workers' universities. However, their programs focus narrowly on technical training, are
aimed at undifferentiated or mixed audiences, or are dedicated exclusively to leisure activities. The
Soros-financed center in Skopje operates as a pay-as-you-go facility. Entrance is subject to the purchase of
a US$0.45 tickets allowing the use of the facilities for one day. Users are not enrolled and no individual
record is kept of them nor of repeated attendance.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative
project designs or international standards.
- 34 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
Years Ending
2005
| Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  I Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.5        0.7        0.6       0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2       0.6        0.6        0.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.7        1.3        1.2       0.9        0.0       0.0       0.0
Interest during   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
construction
Total Financing              0.7        1.3        1.2       0.9        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.6       0.9        0.7        0.3       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0       0.3        0.4        0.5       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.2       0.3        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.3        0.2       0.2        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers UNICEF       0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries                                              0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.7        1.3        1.2       0.9        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Financing Plan (Government)
Government Contributions (US$ '000)      2002  2003 2004  2005   Total
Central Government Contribution        95    85   85    85    350
Local Govemment & Community Contribution  0    267  267   266    800
Total  95    352  352   351    1150
-35-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures.
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. Consulting services and goods
financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance to Bank procurement guidelines. All other
procurement information, including capability of the implernenting agency, estimated dates for publication
of General Procurement Notice and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables B and B I.
Procurement of goods will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the
1BRD Loans and IDS Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September
1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services for technical assistance and training will be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines i.e. "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers",
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's standard procurement documents
will be used. If there is procurement financed with funds provided from co-financing sources, it will be
conducted in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published
in Development Business in June, 2001.
Procurement Responsibilitv. The project will be implemented over a four year period. A Project
Management Unit will be functioning within the Agency for Youth and Sport, a government agency (AYS).
AYS will be led Tesponsible for the general directives, periodical progress review, and annual planning for
the implementation of the project. The PMU who will be responsible for the procurement activities of the
project.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. An assessment of the PMU 's capacity to implement the project's
procurement plan was carried out in April of 2001. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle
management, organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general
procurement environment and made a general risk assessment of the PMU. The review rated the project's
risk with regard to procurement as high.
The PMU will operate in a public procurement environment, which is not competitive and there is
inconsistent application of the Public Procurement Law. AYS is a newly formed Agency with no
experience in the procurement cycle and also in managing and implementing WB financed projects. The
PMU will be staffed with an experienced procurement specialist, however, procurement under this project
has still been put in the high-risk category.
in addition to the risk of delays in procurement that may be caused by frequent changes in govemment
policies and priorities, the following are some other potential risks that may result in procurement delays:
* The borrower may not be able to appoint qualified and experienced procurement staff in a timely
manner (i.e. before effectiveness).
* Lack of understanding of the procurement requirements on the part of those involved in project
implementation, especially the decision makers.
* Inadequate supply side response for goods contracts to be bid locally.
- 36 -



Based on the findings and recommendations of the assessment of the capacity of the implementation agency
to conduct procurement, the following actions are advised to be implemented to mitigate such a risk:
(i)    A procurement specialist with suitable educational background and experience in
intemational procurement preferably familiar with the WB procurement procedures and guidelines and
good command of English language shall be appointed in the PMU on a competitive basis, before
effectiveness of the Credit.
(ii)   Immediately after Board approval the Bank staff will prepare a procurement library
containing all procurement related documents, including Standard Bidding Documents, both in hard and
soft copies, and send it to PMU.
(iii)   Around loan effectiveness, a project launch workshop will be held for the PMU staff and
involved agencies in project implementation. During this project launch workshop adequate time (a
minimum of three days) will be spent on procurement training of the PMU staff. During this project
launch, the contents of the procurement library will be discussed.
(iv)   The procurement specialist shall be given additional training in Turin or in
Washington to enhance their knowledge of procurement. They should also attend seminars offered by WB
in the regional locations.
(v)    A computerized procurement monitoring system will be established within six months of
loan effectiveness.
(vi)   During supervision mission, the conduct of procurement under the project would be
reviewed in light of the potential procurement risks, and recommendations made, if necessary, to improve
the procurement process.
(vii)  A review of contracts procured through different procurement methods (not subject to
prior Bank review) should be conducted by the Project Procurement Accredited Staff on an ex-post basis
during the supervision missions.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods and consulting services. Procurement needs of the project have
been identified and agreed during project appraisal. A detailed procurement plan for these needs is prepared
and will be included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During project implementation, the
procurement plan will be updated as on need basis.
The following thresholds are proposed (the aggregates are given in the footnotes to Table A: Procurement
Table):
(i)   ICB for goods = US$ 100,000 or more per contract
(ii)   National Shopping for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract (based
on minimum three quotations from domestic suppliers) up to an aggregate threshold of US$154,000.
Procurement of Goods. ICB procedures would be used for contracts valued at US$ 100,000 and higher.
National shopping (NS) would be used for small items, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract,
- 37 -



up to an aggregate amount of US$154,000 on the basis of at least three quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers. They can be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United
Nations Development Program (LAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the
Guidelines. Award through LAPSO would be acceptable as an alternative to NS, and lAPSO could be
invited as a supplier under the said NS procedures .
Procurement of Consultants. Consultants Services for training services, organization of events, provision
of services to Youth Centers and awareness campaigns, estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract,
will be procured through Least Cost Selection. Consulting services contracts for beneficiary assessments
and organization of workshops, estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, will be procured through
selection based on Consultants' Qualification. These services shall be advertised in the GPN and, in most of
the cases, in a national newspaper for expression of interest, from which a shortlist will be drawn.
individuals experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement' eth d-         ....
. i .; .... ..  C ... .     . .. .    . ............... ... ....   .... .. -          .           . . ....   ..... 
1. Works                              0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.28             0.00           0.15          0.00         0.43
(0.28)           (0.00)        (0.15)         (0.00)      (0.43)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           1.72          0.00         1.72
(0.00)           (0.00)        (1.72)        (0.00)       (1.72)
4. Technical Services                 0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Interest during                    0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
construction
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Operating costs                       0.00             0.00           0.34          0.00         0.34
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.34)        (0.00)       (0.34)
Total                              0.28             0.00           2.21          0.00         2.49
(0.28)           (0.00)        (2.21)         (0.00)      (2.49)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Goods - Others: Includes NS contracts ($0.154million)
Services - Other: Includes LC contracts ($0.459mnillion), CQ contracts ($0.842million), and individual
consultants contracts ($0.421million)
Operating cost: Includes operating cost for PMU ($0.182million) and for Youth centers ($0.1S4million)
-38 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
-  -  -:    --    -  :-   --   --   --:  -  -   n   i -----------
xed1Uri caeory   QCS    QB          SB      LC       C.      Ote    NaBF ~
A. Firms               0.00     0.00     0.00    0.46     0.84     0.00    0.00      1.30
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.46)   (0.84)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.30)
B. Individuals         0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.42     0.00      0.42
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.42)   (0.00)    (0.42)
Total  0.00     0.00    0.00    0.46      0.84    0.42     0.00      1.72
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.46)   (0.84)   (0.42)   (0.00)    (1.72)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 39 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review Thresholds
(i)    All ICB, first N S contract, first two IS contracts and first two contracts under
procurement from UN agencies and NS procedures.
(ii)    All TOR for consulting services contracts.
(iii)   All contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost US$50,000 or more each.
(iv)   All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
.. , ,, , , . . ...... ...........  ..  .
.,,,.S,',',",'"~~~~~~~Thii               -  ,g'0t '.- '-  C- - V. ,  ..........,.0.-., ....... . ..
1. Works                          0.000                     N/A                      0.000
2. Goods                        >100,000                    ICB                      0.281
<100>50                     IS                       0.022
<50,000                     NS
3. Services                     <200,000                    LCS                      0.459
<100,000                    CQ                       0.050
individual                 0.344
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     1.156
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 'Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 40-



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditu  Caeo              Amoun   --JS$m nJb F;nain -P-f ta
Goods                                       0.39           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures(ex-factory cost and
80% local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consulting services                          1.55                         100%
Inc. Operating cost for PMU                 0.16                          80%
Inc. Operating cost for Youth Centers       0.14            90% of expenditures incurred through,
December 31, 2002; 80% of
expenditures incurred through December
31, 2003; 70% of expenditures incurred
through December 31, 2004 and 50%/c of
expenditures thereafter.
Unallocated                                 0.26
Total Project Costs                         2.50
Interest during construction        0.00
Total                                       2.50
(1) Consulting services include contractsfor local NGOs selected according to standard procedures (Co and through
national shortlist in accordance wuth para 2.7 of the World Bank Consultant Guidelines
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement from IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SoE) and would be considered for conversion to the PMR-based method of disbursement
only after mutual agreement between the borrower and the Bank. Reimbursement of expenditures made
from the Special Account are made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the following
items:
* Goods: contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract.
* Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract
* Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US$25,000 per contract.
* Training and operating costs: all contracts.
Supporting documents for expenditures financed on basis of SOEs will be retained by PMU for at least two
years after disbursements and made available for review by Bank representatives and extemal auditors.
The proposed allocation of Credit proceeds is shown in the Table C above. Disbursements would not be
made for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible sources or which have not
been procured according to Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
Full documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by the PCU for at least two years after the
closing date of the credit. This information would be made available for review by Bank missions during
project supervision and by auditors.
-41 -



The Bank Credit is expected to be fully disbursed over a four year period. All applications to withdraw
from the credit will be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the bank's disbursement handbook.
All applications to withdraw wiU be fully documented, except those for training and contracts not subject to
prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may be made against certified statements of
expenditures SOEs.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US$ in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA   The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account will be limited  to
US$200,000, limit to US$100,000 until the withdrawal reaches SDR 700,000. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Traditional Disbursement Procedures
Applications for Withdrawal from the Credit will be used to request: (i) direct payment to third party for
amount due; (ii) replenishment to the Special Account; (iii) reimbursement of payments already made by
the Borrower for eligible expenditures; and (iv) application for Special Commitment.
-42 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ; -- - - :     -------Pla n n e d --:-:-:---: ta -----
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            6
First Bank mission (identification)              10/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      02/28/2001                   02/28/2001
Negotiations                                     05/14/2001                   05/15/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/15/2001
Prepared by:
Agency of Youth and Sports
Preparation assistance:
Post Conflict Fund - US$2 million dollars grant (UNICEF executed)
Italian Development Cooperation - Social Development initiative for South East Europe Trust Fund
US$70,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Gloria La Cava                    Sr. Social Scientist South East Europe
Elena Galliano                    Social Development Specialist
Rajna Cemerska                    Operations Officer, Field Office
Vittorio Masoni                   Project and M&E advisor
Naushad Khan                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Hans Gruss, Nikolai Soubbotin     Lawyers, Chief and Sr. Counsels
Nicholay Chistyakov               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Jan Pakulski                      Public Outreach Specialist
Piet Goovaerts                    Community Development Specialist
Stephen Commins                   Human Development VP Youth Advisor, peer reviewer
Aleksandra Posarac                Sr. Economist, peer reviewer
Alexandre Marc                     Social Development Sector Manager
Mark Woodward                     Sr. Social Development Specialist
Richard James                     Operations/limplementation Specialist
Emilia Battaglini                 Environmental Specialist
Marc Blanc                        Operations Adviser, peer reviewer
Rathna Chiniah, Daphne Sawyer-Dunn Program Assistants
Other Staff
Elena Bogdanska                   Project Officer, UNICEF
Nora Sabani                       Project Officer, UNICEF
- 43 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Minutes of the Consultative Workshop held in Skopje on March 2001
World Bank/UNICEF, Needs and Resource Assessment for Youth, Nov. 2000.
World Bank/UNICEF, Vulnerability of Roma Children in the Municipality of Shuto Orizari, Sept. 2000
World Bank/UNICEF, Vulnerability of Roma Children in the Dispersed Roma Communities in Skopje.
Nov. 2000
UNICEF, Assessment of Youth Centers (Post-Conflict Grant), Nov. 2000
C. Other
UNICEF, Young People in Transition, Nov. 1999
UNICEF, Young People in Changing Societies, Nov. 2000
UNICEF, "Key issues in Girls' Education in the FYROM. Skopje 2000.
Maria Doneska, llo Traskoski et al., prepared for the World Bank, Taking Stock of Poverty in Macedonia.
April 2000
The Urban Institute, Draft Report Macedonia, Local Govemment in Transition, Washington DC, January
1999
UNICEF, FYROM Report to the Regional Conference on: Children Deprived or At Risk of Being
De=rived of Parental Care. 2000
Open Society Institute, Report on Children in Distress, for King Badouin Foundation, Belgium, January
2000.
*Including electronic files
-44 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBUC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
Apr-2001
llIerence b.tee OIpebde
and acu1
Oriil Amount in USS Millone
Projed ID    FY  PunpOes                               IORD       IDA                      Cancel.  Undbab.    Oft  Fnm RO* d
P070089     2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR             0.00     9.30                       0.00     9.03     0.08     0.00
P042400     2001 FESAL 2                                  30.31    20.00                       0.00    39A      .0.18     0.00
P0505E9     199 TRANSPORT                                 32.00     0.00                       0.00    16.2     14.75     0.00
P0580E8     1999 PENNO REF TA                              0.0      1.00                       0.00     0.30     0.27     0.0
P066221     1099 SOCIAL SUPORT                             0.00    10.00                       0.00     5.62     262      0.00
P034609    19N  PSD11                                    25.00     0.00                       0.00    10.07     4.00     0.00
P038399     1968 11W REHAS                                 7.50     5.00                       0.00     8.3      3.18     2.51
P038391     199 EDUC REHAS                                 0.00     6.00                       0.00     0.31     0.37     0.0
P042399     1993 POWER                                    38.00     0.00                       0.29    25.71     5.97     0.00
P036089     1996 HEALTH SECT TRANSTN                       0.00   1U.90                        0.00     9.01    10.29     (.00
P010D01     1996 PFRV FARMER SLIPPORT                      0.00     7.90                       0.00     225      2.86     0.37
Total:    129.81    75.10                       029     127.32    44.21    2.93
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan   Equity    Quai    Paruc    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Paric
1999                  ALlkoid                            0.00     0.00      7.40     0.00     0.00      0.00     3.57      0.00
1998                 Macedomia Telcom                   25.00     0.00      0.00    25.00    25.00      0.00     0.00    25.00
1997                 Makedonia                           2.94     0.00     0.00      0.00     2.94      0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                 Nikol-Fert                          3.80     0.00      0.00     0.00     3.30      0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                  SEF Masinomont                     0.61     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.61      0.00     0.00      0.00
1999                  SEF SEAF Macedon                   0.00     2.50      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.64     0.00      0.00
1997                  SEF Teteks                         0.81     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.81     0.00     0.00      0.00
1998/00               Stopanska Banka                    0.00     3.40      0.00     0.00      0.00     2.93     0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:           33.16      5.90     7.40    25.00    32.66       3.57      3.57    25.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
2000                 Akcaloid Incr.                         0.00       8.00       0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00       8.00        0.00       0.00
.45-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LIL)
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Macedonfla.   Central   middle.
FYR1      Aia Iincome         Development diamond'
:1 6t:^     :                                           2         475:    2.094:: : :   : 
Popultion. mid-Year (millionsft)                        2.0        47          4Life expectancy
GNP oercarY*e (Aties rnelhi kiSSj) - i) ' Xia $)l    i i 1 690   2.1iS      1.200
iG31P Al/es metthodt.LUS$ i.t/f ons)000000.00.T tt t it4033.    1.022      2.513 
Aver. :afitnuol growth, 1993-W9
Pooulstion   0                                           0.7 T     01         1.1
LaborlOrce (%)iR   : i;  E i} T:i: 0 ::9E :i:. i: i::  : ::: i: 91.6 ::: ::  0.B  1.2  GNP                              Gross
Moat fecent sil  - ib i   a  Si TTiDi  R  iiii ite  y  per avaIlable. 1993-99)       per                              primary
l6tiet "ri tektoitimai  latest/estarAollabb.c a199399pita                                                           enrollment
iPovqrti(14of poprdltlon belownatina poverty i/ne)J i      ;i;       i;i         
Urban popultin oS.       opuaion)                        62  0      67        43
Wi eexpectancyiattblith(years#                           Is 7                 69
Infantmnortalv   Ifper 1,000/e bth:s)16      22                               33 
Child malnutritIonf oftchildren dunder 5).     . . .      .          8        15                Access to safe water
Accdss to lmoroved water source mo poputslfion)           ..         .        i6
IilIteracy 1% irt popuEstia,agie 64)  tll   I. 13                             18                          F
iGfos8 srlDnsfyenrollment 06 of sghtoJol-age 00nUon)i    i 99    i100       1114i        Macedonia fYR 
i jj:Malei: .tig          . . .tili00  .  .i       . 000 iti tiV i i i     100 g 101  114    Lower-middle-income group
KEY ECO  iilC RATIOS aidLOPiG-TERIM TRENDS
1979     1959       1198.    1999 .       cnmcrto
iE u i?    |i   a!   id i TE i  i i 9   TS   i    i   T    i    i  R RTE  ?   i  i Economic  ratios'
'GDP fUSSh/lelions)                             ..        .        3.4        3.5
Gross doenmstic IlnvestmeallGOP                                   26.5       21.4
Exporta of goods ind.servicesIGOP                         .. 140             415                      Trade
GSroan domestic eavingsdGOiP$t0ft;0000004;00000;: ..              t8.600t   7.1  t0          
Gtross.natlonal savini:lGOP                                        18        M3
Currentaccount balance/GDP                                 . i49              39
jInterest 9aymets/GDP                                     .         1.;; ;; 0; j 0 ti; i t:$ t t 000 ;04t9    1.708    DomeSain 1  Investment
Total debt/GODP                                           *       69.4      454       Savings
iTotal debt ser'icelesorts i. i   i1 i   i.9                                 127
Present value ofdebt/GDPi                                          W . i624 i
Present valuet of debt/exoorta                                   1403.
Indebtedness
1979.8   108999  199    t9AM   1099.-03
iraverage annual growth)
GOP         .                          ..      -.        29        -27        5.3        "-Macedonia, FYR
GNP oer ooitau                          . -0.3           2.2       2.3        4.8         --    Lower-middle-income group
Ex6ortsofooodsand servicesI                 j  31       1.2        2.5        7.1V 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                       12.4       11.6     40         A
Industry                                                          33.0      32.6      20 -
Manufacturing                                                                                                 .. .. .. .. j  \ 
Services                                                          54.6       55.8      D -               _
Private consumption                                               73.8       73.8    -201
General government consumption                                    17.6       19.0               -GDI    --G-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                     57.5      55.7
(average annual growth)                    1979-89  1999-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports I%l
Agriculture                                             -0.4       3.0        0.7    30
Industry                                         .       659       3.9        0.4
Manufacturing                                 ..        ..         ..        ..    *5
Services                                                0.8        2.3        4.5       t               9
Private consumption                                     0.7        3.2        3.3             4
General government consumption                           0.3       4.1       10.1
Gross domestic investment                                2.2        7.4     -16.5     1
Imports of goods and services                            7.2      12.2       -2.8               -Exports      --lmports
Gross national product                                   1.1       3.2        2.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-46-



Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Dornstcpf                                                                              400 -
(% change)                                                                             400
Consumerpnces                                    ..        ..       0.8      -1.1      30
Implicit GDP deflator                             .        ..       0.2       -.        t
Govemment flnance                                                                      100
(% of GOP, inctudes current grants)                                                      0            -  _
Curenl revenue                                   ..        ..      34.0      36.3    -100        94   95   90   97   9S   90
Current budget balance                           ..        ..       0.1        0.8               -GDP deflator         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..                 -1.8       0.0
TRADE
(USS millons)                                  1979     1989       199       1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               .,              1,292     1,192      2,000
Raw materials                                       ..             56        50
Food                                                               66        68       so
Manufactures                                                     1043       867                      is _r0
Total imports (cilt)                                               ,1       179
Food                                                              256       2D8
Fuel and energy                                 ..163                       158
Capital goods                                                      12       366         o
93   94  95   90   97   00   90
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..        ..        87        84
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..        78       124                  rsExports       Imports
Terms of trade (1995s100)                        ..        ..       112        68
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$Smiilions)                                 1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balanc, to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                     1,423     1,440       o - 
Imports of goods and services                                     2,014     1,925           93
Resource balance                                 ..        ..      -591      -485
Net income                                        ..       ..       -44       -43
Net current transfers                            ..        ..       327       392
Current account balance                                            -308      -136      -e
Financing items (net)                            ..        ,,       352       259
Changes in net reserves                                                      -123      -12
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)            ..        ..       334       458
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                 ..        .       55.3      56.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..        ..     2,392     1,568
IBRD                                                              115       110                   G: 134   A: 110
IDA                                             .        ..       179       223
Total debt service                                ..       ..       143       183
IBRD                                            ..      ..         12        10
IDA                                            ..       ..          1         1
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                       C: 113
Official grants                                 .                  28        65
Offical creditors                              ..                  71        61
Private creditors                              ..       ..         91        -1
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..        118        27                                     3
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0                 E 318
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..       ..         65        92      A - IeBD                     E - Btateral
Disbursements                                  ..       ..         51        57      8-IDA     D-Olthermutilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                           ..       ..          5         3      C - IMF                      G - Shto4erm
Net flows                                      ..       ..         46        54
Interest payments                              ..                   9         8
Net transfers                                  ..       ..         38        46
Development Economics
-47 -



Additional
Annex 11
Sustainability Plan for the Children and Youth Development Project
One of the central objectives of the project is to identify and mainstream effective mechanisms to support
the social integration of youth at risk in Macedonia in a financially sustainable way. The project will
identify approaches that will increase the coverage of the youth at risk without increasing the proportion of
central government financing going to these activities. This is essential, in order to remain in line with the
objectives of macroeconomic and institutional reforms. This means that the project will aim at improving:
(i) the cost effectiveness of youth activities; (ii) increase local level financing through cost recovery from
the users able to pay; (iii) increase the contribution of municipalities to these programs; and (iv) support a
structured and coherent approach to raise funding from the private sector and local donors. Over the life of
the project, financing from the project and the new mechanisms mentioned above will be progressively
implemented, hopefully achieving full financial sustainability with Macedonian resources by the end of the
project. At the same time, the program will have increased the number of beneficiaries and the quality of
services.
i. Central Governmentfinancing availablefor Youth outside of the education system:
Central Govemment financing for youth activities is very limited in Macedonia. In the area of youth the
newly created Agency for Youth and Sports (AYS) currently supports some very limited activities of youth
centers, while approximately 95% of its budget is allocated to sports' activities. Also the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Culture support youth activities, outside the curricula, either as hosts of
youth-related events in their facilities or as spin-offs of their standard institutional programs. As an
example, schools host drug-prevention programs executed by the AYS and promote young gatherings for
choir singing, music playing and, traditional dances. Similarly, Culture Houses are open to folk events, to
training activities and theater performance.
The current budget of the AYS amounts to 0.27 % of the total Govemment budget.
Table 1.     Central Government Expenditures (in billion of Mk denars)
1997             1998             1999             2000
(provisional)
Government   40.8              41.4             45.6             54.9
budget
Budget of     0.11             0.12             0.13             0.12
Youth Agency
Source: World Bank/lMF/AYS figures
It is estimated that the AYS will remain with the same budget in percentage terms to total government
budget over the coming years. At the moment, the AYS carries out a number of small activities, that may
be divided into two groups: (a) events, rallies, informative publications on youth issues; and (b) a very
successful annual program, initiated in 1997, on defense against the drug use among adolescents and other
categories at risk. Some of these programs could be extended, re-directed and based in the youth centers.
During the pilot phase of the project, the annual per capita cost of youth center activities was US$53, and
this is expected to be reduced gradually to US$34 during subsequent years of project implementation, with
an estimated increase in outreach and effectiveness. Data to compare similar youth programs in the region
- 48 -



are currently not available. Annual per capita cost for secondary schools is US$660.
Institutional sustainability for the youth component will be ensured by a know-how transfer by UNICEF to
the AYS aimed at strengthening management of youth centers, with the increasing participation and
volunteer work by older youth, parents and communities. Another important element will be the continuous
training and capacity building effort which will be directed to make each youth center self-sufficient
institutionally and financially over a three/four year period.
It is expected that the AYS will continue its existing activities within current budget levels, a limited
amount of which would be allocated to youth centers' activities as central government financing (see Table
5).
Table 2. Projected Budget of A YS (in billion o] Mk denars)
2001          2002           2003          2004           2005/6
Govenrnent   50.0            49.0          47.1           49.1           52.0
Budget of     0.12           0.12          0.12           0.12           0.13
AYS            _ _ _  
Table 3. Projected AYS budget (in million of US dollars)
2001      2002       2003        2004            2005      2006
Budgetof   1.85       1.85       1.85        1.85           1.85       2.0
AYS
11 Contribution from local Governiments
Macedonia is legislating a reform of major political significancy to devolve important responsibilities to
municipalities as well as regroup them to make them more viable entities. At present, local technical staff
capacity and fiscal autonomy are very limited and local govemments have insignificant budgets so that they
are almost totally dependent on transfers from the state budget. The Law on Local Self-Government (1995)
makes local authority contingent upon other legislation and the cooperation of State Government officials.
Local powers include: (i) property of some buildings and facilities, except any assets of the local public
enterprises engaged in the provision of infrastructure or other urban services; (ii) some control over the
provision of public services (although constrained by the lack of service standards inspectors); (iii)
maintenance and improvement of local roads and streets; and (iv) promotion of direct citizen participation
in local decisions affecting their needs and interests, a process which in many municipalities has been quite
effective. (USAID, Macedonia: Local Government in Transition, Report prepared by The Urban Institute,
Washington DC, January 1999).
The current Govemment has just presented to Parliament a law on local administrations. Among other
things, the law will devolve greater responsibility to local governments for: (i) planning economic/social
development; (ii) regulating, building, equipping and maintaining all communal infrastructure (roads,
building, cemeteries, sanitary facilities, etc.); (iii) treatment, delivery of water and waste, public
transportation/traffic, infrastructure; (iv) construction, equipment and maintenance of health facilities; (v)
establishing and financing pre-schools, primary, secondary, vocational education and student transport,
including construction, equipment and maintenance of schools; and (vi) establishing and financing all sports
and culture-related activities. Local govemments are thus expected to control greater budgetary resources
than at present.
-49-



Within this framework, it is expected that some of the Youth activities would in part fall under the
responsibility of local Govemments, as it is in most European and middle income countries. It can be
assumed that the Local Govemments will take up up a large share of the govemment contribution to cover
for project costs (see Table 5). Such contribution could also be in kind in the form of attribution of office
space, in the facilitation of events and activities, in the support to management and running some of the
centers. In 2006 this contribution will be smaller as it will be cover reduced maintenance and upkeep costs.
Ill. Project beneficiaries andper capita cost
Based on the experience of the Post Conflict Grant and the average yearly budget for the Youth
Component, the cost per beneficiary is expected to decrease from US$53 to US$34 between 2001 and
2005. At the same time the overall number of beneficiaries is expected to double over the life of the project
due to increased outreach, including rural areas, and increased cost effectiveness. On average, the per
capita beneficiary cost is US$47.
Table 4. Projected number of beneficiaries andper capita cost
Youth-          __ _ __ _
Youth_________ 2001           2002         2003          2004           2005
Numberof        12,500        15,000       18,000        20,000         25,000
Youth
participating
Cost per youth  53            57           48            43             34
(USD)          (53 in 2000)
Average yearly   -           861,650       861,650       861,650        861,650
cost for youth
component
Source: UNICEF, Skopje, and World Bank project budget.
IV. Potentialfor cost recovery, beneficiary contribution andprivate sector participation
It is suggested that beneficiary contribution will vary according to the activities and that a mechanism to
support the participation of the poorest members of the communities be worked out. The activities could in
fact be partially paid by beneficiaries and cover up to 10% in the first year and 30% of costs in the
remaining years. The nature of the activities is such that participants are willing to pay a modest ticket or
offer service for their organization. Theater performances, sports events, arts and craft shows, fteld trips,
tuition for computer and language courses are primary examples. Many of these activities will be piloted by
the center. For this purpose the youth center manager training will have a component on fund raising and
partnership. Willingness-to-pay assessments will be carried out in the communities during the first year of
the project as part of the Monitoring and Evaluation activities to ensure that some fee mechanisms could be
sustained and other mechanisms will be piloted to ensure that poorer family are not penalized by an
increase in beneficiary contribution to the project. Information on the socio-economic status will be
provided within the system of social welfare and child protection. In addition, local NGOs will be invited to
contribute and provide additional support to the poorest of the participating families.
Financial and in-kind private contributions at the community level for youth activities are expected to be
available in addition to public expenditures, and gradually grow to an average of 10-15% % of the centers'
- 50 -



current budgets.
V. Other contributions
Many Macedonian NGOs are deeply committed to youth development. Organizations such as the Open
Society Institute and Search for Common Ground have been working for a long time in those areas and are
expected to remain active as financial suppliers, know-how transfer agents, awareness raising centers,
promoters of special events. Many foreign NGOs are also active such as the King Baudoin Foundation, the
Italian consortium  CESVI, intemational theater and music associations (MOT) and European
university-related networks for distance learning. While some organizations act sporadically, most of those
mentioned above have continuing programs, they are fully institutionalized and will operate well beyond the
Project. UNICEF will continue to be a main supporter of youth programs.
A main pressure element of youth programs are the women associations, both local and federated as well
as the over one-hundred private amateur associations and clubs. There are also party-connected youth
networks, environmental movements and religious entities. Precedents suggest that local businesses will
find convenient to support kindergartens, outreach organizations, and local youth centers, whether as civic
duty or as part of their neighborhood relations with the community.
VI. Estimatedfinancingplan
The table below summarizes the Youth Component financing plan. It is envisaged that at the end of the
project, i.e. in 2006, the only costs required to continue the program are the recurrent costs (i.e. salaries of
youth centers' consultants) and the operational costs of the centers. In addition to financing sources which
would already ensure sustainability, such as the central and local government financing, the cost recovery
and the private sector contributions identified below, international donors may in some cases take entirely
over the cost of some youth centers. This clearly enhances the sustainability prospects of youth activities.
in Tetovo, for example, the Canadian Development Cooperation is already fully financing a Babylon Youth
Center initially funded under ECHO and under the World Bank post conflict grant, and has already
expressed interest in taking over the full operating costs for the next years.
The total availability of financing is reached at by taking into consideration the projected yearly central and
local govenmnent contributions, cost recovery and private sector contributions. It should be noted that the
total availability of financing is expected to be higher than what is required to sustain the existing youth
activities. Therefore, the projected balance, could be used to further scale up youth centers and youth
programs.
Table 5. Youth financing pla  (in m llion of USD)
_  Million   2001   2002       2003       2004        2005       2006
Central          USD              0.09        0.085       0.085       0.085      0.085
Govemment
Financing (1)
Local            USD              ---         0.26        0.26        0.26       0.26
Govt Financing
TOTAL Govt   USD                 0.09         0.34        0.34        0.34      0.34
Cost recovery *  USD              0.11        0.23       0.23         0.24       0.25
-51 -



Private sector    USD    0.01   0.05        0.06       0.08        0.10      0.14
contribution *
IDA            USD       -       0.96       0.44       0.33        0.26      --
Financing_
UNICEF (2)    USD               0.08        0.08       0.08        0.08
TOTAL          USD               1.29       1.72       1.06       1.02      0.74
availability of
financing
Disbursements    USD             0.54       1.05       1.04        0.81      0.4
Youth
Component                  _
Notes:
(1) Central and local government contribution include: salaries in increasing mode, centers maintenance and
further equipping, starting from year 2 of the project and rent and communication (estimated at US$
31,000 per year), with the highest share covered by local govermments during and after the end of the
project.
(2) UNICEF will support part of the capacity building and training activities for: (i) the centers staff; and
(ii) for the local governments in order to strengthen both their professional and technical capacity in
designing, implementing, administering community-based services for youth with the aim of strengthening
especially public outreach, fund raising and mobilization of local and international non-governmental actors
to participate in direct services provision and thus guarantee the centers and programs sustainability.
* UNICEF estimates.
- 52 -



Additional
Annex 12
Lessons from the World Bank Post Conflict Grant and other Projects
In 1999, during the refugee crisis as a result of the conflict in Kossovo, the World Bank gave a US$2
million post-conflict grant to UNICEF in the FYR of Macedonia to support the communities privately
hosting refugee children and their families in Skopje, Tetovo, Gostivar and Kumanovo among other
municipalities. The project specifically focused on ethnic conflict prevention by: (i) improving the learning
environment of Kosovar and Roma refugee children as well as Macedonian children from hosting
communities; (ii) creating an Early Child Care Development network of mothers in disadvantaged
communities predominately inhabited by ethnic minorities or mixed groups benefiting about 5,000 families;
and (iii) promoting the interethnic dialogue and life skills education among youth.
With the end of the refugee crisis the project shifted the focus to Early Child Care Development (ECCD)
and life education activities for youth aged 7-18 of different ethnic groups through the establishment of
youth centers called Babylon. Under this grant, still under implementation, 30,000 children aged 0-6 were
covered at an annual cost of child/per capita US$18.50. This included initial investment costs for set-up
of activities, equipment and pedagogic material and training. The projected per capita cost for subsequent
years is US$11. The ECCD so far has resulted in a very cost-effective program as compared with
governmental pre-primary per capita spending of US$1,120. ECCD currently covers only about 20% of
all Macedonian children in pre-primary age, while another 11% of children in the same age group are
covered by other governmental and non governmental programs, leaving about 69% of all children aged 0-6
uncovered by any program. At the same time, the grant has been reaching approximately 12,500 children
and adolescents (ages 7-18 years) at a per capita cost of US$44 for the first year. The projected per capita
cost for subsequent years is US$26. This is currently the only available public program addressing life
education for youth in FYROM considering both public secondary school curricula and extracurricular
activities.
Given the success of the above-mentioned activities and the current public concern over youth issues, the
Government has expressed interest to institutionalize and further pilot youth activities through a LIL.
Lessons on inter-ethnic cohesion
Under the post-conflict grant to be completed at the end of 2001, a total of 23 Babylon Youth Centers will
have been set up throughout the country, mainly in urban locations. Eight of these centers, which have been
operational for 18 months, have provided useful insights on attaining greater inter-ethnic cohesion. The
youth centers are one of the rare public places where adolescents and youth from different ethnic
backgrounds leam new skills, including interpersonal communication skills, where they interact and
socialize together. According to the experiences brought by beneficiaries and volunteers at a consultative
youth workshop held in March 2001 in Skopje, the Babylon Youth Centers have provided a unique channel
to break through ethnic isolation and distrust which may otherwise tend to increase at a time of increasing
internal and regional ethnic conflict and fragmentation. In this sense, they are not only appreciated by youth
and the public at large for their role in skill building and overall youth development, but can also be
considered as an important investment in conflict prevention.
Added value of a World Bank project and donor experiences
Ad hoc pilot experiences have been carried out by bilateral donors through international and local NGOs or
- 53 -



by Soros Foundation, particularly to support youth activities, however, children and youth have not been
high in the policy agenda in FYR of Macedonia. This has occurred despite the fact that youth vulnerability
is perceived as one of the most serious social problems in the country. The Government of FYR of
Macedonia, bilateral donors, UNICEF and Soros have pointed out that a World Bank project will be the
most effective way to ensure that children and youth become a visible issue in public policy and that
successful experiences become sustainable, supported by local conmmunities and institutionalized in
national and local administrations. There is also a need to create linkages with the Education Reform, the
decentralization process and to take the fiscal implications of a children and youth strategy into account.
Finally, the World Bank global policy experience, its comparative advantages in shaping the dialogue on
social policy with the government, and the opportunity to use the good lessons learned from the
Macedonian case elsewhere in South East Europe are the key factors explaining the value added for its
involvement. The Agency for Youth and Sports is taking the institutional leadership within the current
Government to pursue this agenda.
The World Bank has recently begun to invest in youth through experimental projects, mainly in the Latin
America and Caribbean Region, as a result of the renewed focus on social capital, risk-prevention and a
people-centered approach to sustainable development. Some youth components have been developed as part
of larger investments in human development. A Youth Development LIL of US$5 million was approved for
Colombia in July 1998 as a poverty targeted intervention aimed at youth at risk of marginalization, conflict
and crime. A similar project is currently under preparation for impoverished youth in Trinidad and Tobago,
on the basis of a World Bank recently completed study (Trinidad and Tobago: Youth and Social
Development: An Integrated Approach for Social Inclusion, June 2000). Other studies such as Youth at
Risk in Jamaica (December 2000) have also recently been completed or are underway. However, given the
very limited experience, it is too early to draw lessons and estimate the actual social impact of such
initiatives. As the first project of this kind to be prepared in the ECA Region, the FYROM Children and
Youth Development Project will enrich the learning process, by bringing lessons from a country affected by
transition and inter-ethnic conflict.
Lessons for sustainability
The implementation of the post-conflict grant for the ECCD and youth activities and the Needs and
Resource Assessment for Youth (World Bank and UNICEF, November 2000) have so far brought out the
following critical points:
*  Municipalities are still awaiting a greater form of autonomy, with power to levy taxes and decide
about expenditures, and ownership of state-owned local facilities. However, almost all
Municipalities have premises they can offer for the various programs. They range from schools,
local community centers, various Ministry buildings, old disused health center, premises of closed
or bankrupt companies, municipal buildings, offices provided by the national Electric Company,
etc...
*  Parent's groups are very active in lobbying with the authorities for fund raising. Some of the
Mayors are even providing financial support for the running of the Babylon Youth Centers. Local
resources are scarce, but could be sufficient for maintenance, or covering the running costs for
utilities (electricity, water, heating and telephone, as in Veles, Kocani and Tearce-near Tetovo),
which in some cases are covered by local sponsors.
*  Community contributions are generally in-kind (in Radovis the community is  building the
sport-ground and fence for the school which houses the project). Sometimes premises are provided
- 54 -



by private entities (i.e. hotels) or State companies. Local communities support special activities
(i.e, Olympic games, youth meetings) with or without the help of private sponsors. Private
sponsors assist in publishing the Babylon newspaper, cover transport or accommodation expenses.
In the ECCD's, the villagers did all the rehabilitation works (repair roofs and walls, installing
wooden flooring, painting, cleaning, electric wiring, unloading and organizing the furniture, etc.
* Given the successful experience and demonstration effects of the Babylon Youth Centers funded
under the Post-Conflict Grant, international donors have expressed considerable interest in
supporting existing or new centers, particularly the Italian, Canadian and Dutch Development
Cooperation as well as UNICEF. In addition, the Canadian Development Cooperation (CIDA) has
already been financially assisting the Babylon Youth Center in Tetovo during the last six months,
and is committed to continue to finance it over the coming years.
- 55-



Additional
Annex 13
Minutes of the Consultative Workshop
Skopje - March 6, 2001
A consultative stakeholders workshop was organized by the World Bank and UNICEF in the framework of
the preparation of the Children and Youth Development Project. Stakeholders included representatives of
the Ministry of Finance, Education and Health and the Agency for Youth and Sports, representatives of the
Local Governments (Negotino, Kocani, Tetovo, Kohce) various NGOS among which the Open Society
Institution and Soros Foundation, the League for Albanian Women, Step by Step, UNICEF staff for both
the ECCD and youth activities and beneficiaries and young volunteers from the Youth centers (Stip,
Kumanovo, Krusevo, Struga) and some donors (Dutch and Italian cooperation, the King Badouin
Foundation and ECHO).
The workshop had a twofold objective: (i) describing the existing experience - already piloted under the
Post Conflict Grant - with children and youth of 7-14 and 15 to 20 years of age (Babylon Youth Centers)
and illustrating some of the main feature of the project under preparation; and (ii) providing the
opportunity to all stakeholders to participate in the design of the project by expressing their views, inputs,
ideas and concerns.
Main Conclusions From Groups Sessions
The discussion focussed on four main themes/topics:
1. Centers activities and value added of Babylon centers
2. Sustainability of the centers
3. Outreach and targeting
4. Program for the future centers.
Assessment of the current programs.
Beneficiaries of the current youth Babylon programs reported the general success of the activities measured
by the large attendance to the centers, the high demand which results in waiting list in each location where
centers are operating and the great commitment of young volunteers in the centers.
At large centers are considered as a great opportunity for enhancing:
cohesion within the community;
learning and skill development;
young people self esteem and sense of pride for their volunteer work;
exposure to different cultures (national and international), travel within their own country and
develop friendship
across the country;
awareness of the problems of the community.
Sustainability
The importance of the centers and their programs sustainability was expressed by both local govemments
- 56-



which demonstrated their involvement with generally the concession of premises and the youth centers staff
which highlighted their activities of fundraising (promotion and selling of products and items produced in
the centers, cultural events, etc..). For the future sustainability has been described as:
* Willingness to increase local governments funds conditional to the new law on
self-government;
* Need to involve privates through donations, sponsorships, etc..
Possible special trust funds: (i) from the central govemment to the municipalities for youth
programs: and (ii) from the municipalities directly to the Babylon centes;
*  Fund raising activities of the local government such as renting premises to NGOS, etc.
Outreach
Outreach to rural, remote and suburban areas is stil not fully achieved by the current Babylon centers.
Crucial needs and the opportunity for the Babylon centers to improve their outreach design was indicated
as: (i) the need for the children and youngsters of remote and rural areas to participate and be active
supporter (as volunteers) to the youth centers programs; (ii) the importance of having youngsters normally
isolated in their communes exposed to the life and activities that are carried out in the urban centers; and
(iii) finaly the value of exchanging the life experience form different areas of the same region (rural,
suburban urban).
Three options were discussed: (1) installation of new centers in the rural areas with the support of
Municipalities (Koce); (2) creation of satellite smaller units in the rural areas which are autonomous but
depend from the central Babylon center in the nearest urban center; and (3) transports of beneficiaries from
rural to urban areas and viceversa to promote interaction and exposure to different life styles.
TareteinL-
The current Babylon centers have been very successful in involving children and youth but their targeting
has mainly focussed on children and youth from 14-18, living in urban areas. Suggestions were given on
how to improve outreaching and designing and tailoring of special programs and activities to attract and
target different groups among which:
Social at risk cases such as drug addicted youngsters, school drop-out girls, single
mothers, etc.;
18-24-year old youngsters which are already looking for jobs, getting married and
emigrating abroad;
Roma communities;
etc.
Program for new activities
The participants raised the question on whether: (1) the centers programs and activities should be
completely flexible and tailored according to the local needs; or (2) a core of already tested activities should
be kept for all Babylon centers especially as they represent the general demand (i.e., languages and
computer classes) and the piloted methodology which gives grounds to replication. Conclusions were taken
as to maintain a number of curricular activities (already tested during the pilot phase) for the Babylon
centers which are described in the Operational Manual under the Centers' methodology and have regular
beneficiary rapid assessment for the design of tailored activities which would better fit the needs of the
different communities.
- 57 -



Additional
Annex 14
Assessment of Youth Centers
Executive Summary
The World Bank's Post Conflict Grant (PCG) to the Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia has
financed a variety of activities in the area of child and youth development implemented by UNICEF. One of
the areas the grant has supported is the eight youth centers initiated under the European Union/ECHO
Babylon program in June 1999. With the refugee emergency situation subsiding, the financing for this
program was terminated on November 15, 2000 as planned, and youth centers were then supported by the
Bank's Post Conflict Grant, providing funding for an additional eight months. This arrangement was
temporary but nevertheless served as an opportunity to find a more permanent solution.
The World Bank is now financing a Children and Youth Development Project in Macedonia through a
US$2.5 million IDA credit and grants from bilateral donors. The Project's major component aims at
establishing new youth centers and at supporting the existing ones throughout the country. This component
will build on the experience accumulated under the eight Babylon original youth centers.
During the project preparation, an assessment of the eight youth centers was carried out at the request of
the Bank. The main purpose of the assessment was to assess the existing activities of the centers, draw
conclusions about their usefulness and assess the potential of the centers to be replicated throughout the
country. The assessment was conducted by an interdisciplinary team consisting of World Bank
consultants, UNICEF's staff and Skopje University faculty. This assessment team reviewed the activity
records and visited all the centers. Each visit included structured interviews with: (a) the centers' director
and staff; (b) children, adolescent and teen-ager beneficiaries; and (c) parents. The Assessment was
completed on December 15, 2000.
The overall conclusion is that the existing centers are effective in delivering the much needed services to
children and teenagers. They also fulfill a strong developmental and societal need for the care and
development of the youth of the nation. The centers have proved to be valuable on several grounds: (I) they
have enhanced social and ethnic integration among children and parents in multiethnic communities; (2)
they provide education for life; (3) they reinforce the skills needed for a modem economy. All the
interviewed children and teenagers (ages 9 to 19) and their parents expressed their satisfaction with offered
programs and with the work of the staff. The appreciation of the centers is also manifested in the fact that
all eight centers have waiting lists that would double, in one case even triple, the number of users in the
event additional capacity could be provided to the centers. Thus, the youth centers fill the void in the
communities to offer services directed to children and youth. The youth centers respond to the deeply felt
need for this type of social services and activities regardless of beneficiaries' income, ethnic and regional
background. It is evident that currently there is no valid alternative to the youth centers in providing
services to these young people of Macedonia.
This conclusion was reached after addressing many issues and concems regarding the functioning of the
centers. Paramount among these issues and concerns are: (a) the sustainability of the centers (institutional,
organizational and financial); (b) the potential of setting up the centers in different contexts relying almost
exclusively on local initiatives.
It is likely that the local authorities would commit their support to the centers because of the high social
value the centers yield to the communities. The commitment of the authorities will help to assure
- 58 -



institutional and organizational feasibility, continuity and improvement over time. Financial sustainability,
however, is more problematic. As for any social service, the continuity of the services provided by the
centers will depend to a substantial extent on the availability of fiscal resources. So far the willingness to
contribute financing by the local authorities, local NGOs or payments by the users themselves has not been
adequately tested.
As it stands now, coverage for approximately 70% of current costs of the centers can be expected at the
outset from local public and private resources. However, in this respect, there are some potential
opportunities for mobilizing additional resources such as:
(a)    the richer towns should able to contribute more and to the extent of also setting up more
than just one center. Municipalities and local donors should be approached during the Project's launching
phase to commit themselves to support this effort;
(b)    for these services to their children, parents should be responsible for paying a fee, as low
as it may be. This is important in order to: (i) contribute to the financial sustainability of the centers; (ii)
provide concrete support for the centers' activities; and (iii) internalize the principle of responsibility to pay
for public services, especially when the beneficiaries are a small group and can afford making a
contribution. A major task of the youth centers management will be to raise public awareness, mobilize
public opinion and otherwise promote responsibility of the beneficiaries to contribute and support their
centers.
In addition to local interest and participation, there are other local conditions that have to be present for
setting up new youth centers. The three most important conditions are: (1) availability of facilities suitable
for conversion into youth centers; (2) availability of training or retraining of staff; and (3) effective public
relations to "market" the centers in order to draw volunteers, donations, sponsorship and general goodwill
so as to contribute to the effective functioning of the centers. In most of the localities there are good
prospects for finding suitable facilities for the youth centers. For appropriate training programs there are
UNICEF, public agencies, the University of Skopje (Institute of Pedagogy) and some NGOs (e.g. the Open
Society Institute/Soros) that have the necessary experience and could implement adequate programs.
During the launch phase, the youth centers' management would need to explore and negotiate the existence
of these conditions in each town and formalize the agreements with the local authorities and key
stakeholders.
A strong system of management for the youth centers is needed in order to ensure administrative and
quality control. In addition, efficient management would also provide an opportunity to reap the benefits of
economies of scale in such activities as: (a) personnel and staff training, (b) core activities' "contents"
development for all centers; (c) negotiation of more beneficial terms for supplies and services (e.g. Internet)
for the entire system; and (d) report to the GOM and external donors in a systematic, streamlined manner.
The management will also have an opportunity to exercise enough leverage to spur the individual center's
performance, induce local revisions, represent the centers vis-A-vis the GOM, donors or NGOs.
The youth centers are likely to attract the interest of additional donors aside from those already identified
with the Project. This would increase the availability of resources for improvements and the replication of
these activities to additional new centers. As such, increased resources would significantly improve the
centers' outreach capability by facilitating the deployment of qualified personnel, suitable materials and
appropriate contents. Most importantly, awareness about child and youth development in rural areas and
poor communities will be improved.
- 59 -



Additional
Annex 15
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects In the IBRDIIDA
Lending Program
Country:                                          Project ID No.:
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC   P073483
OF
Project Name:
Children and Youth Development Project
Appraisal Date:                                  IBRD Amount (US$m):
February 28, 2001
Board Date:                                       IDA Amount (US$m):
June 15, 2001                                     2.5
Managing Division:                                Sector:
ECSSD                                             SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument:                               Status:
Leaming and Innovation Loan (LIL)
Date for receipt of EA report by Bank:            Date Assigned:
EA Category: B
Date data sheet prepared/updated:
Major Project Components:
1. Early Child Care and Development
Ages 0-6.
2. Youth.
Ages 14-24
3. Institutional Development
(Strategy, M&E,
Public Outreach Campaign and
PMU set up cost)
Project Location: (besides geographic location, information about the key environmental characteristics of the
area likely to be affected by the project, and proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats)
Environmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
The Project would benefit the natural environment. Environment-raising awareness and environment
improving components are within the Project scope. No negative effects can be expected on habitat, natural
resources, landscape or other ecological aspects. Some minimal environmental impact will be assessed at
appraisal and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), related to the treatment of proper drainage of
hygienic services, the safety of paints and other construction materials used in some rehabilitation work,
will be prepared as required.
The World Bank has evaluated the rules of FYROM as adequate for these purposes.
- 60 -



Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues described above)
An EMP will be developed as part of project preparation, before the appraisal mission. The EMP will
address asbestos, lead paint and other material for safe disposal.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for environmental category
selected and explanation of any changes from initial classification, induding whether any changes relate to
altematives)
Originally, the project was assigned category Fl since it included a demand-driven mechanism. At PCD
review, however, it was decided that the project will be simplified by eliminating such mechanism.
Therefore, the project is now assigned category B, since some minor civil works are planned for
rehabilitation of 8 youth centers
Reporting Schedule: (Category A EA report: Start-up date, date for first draft, and current status. Category B:
Is there a separate environmental analysis? If yes,when is it due?)
Start-up date
Date for first draft
Current status
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted and,
where EA reports were made public locally, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA report, etc.)
There wil be no new construction, only rehabilitation of existing buildings. The project envisages
widespread consultations but given the minor nature of environmental issues, there will be no dedicated
environmental consultations.
Signed by: Gloria La Cava                        (Team Leader)
Signed by: Alexandre Marc                        (Sector Manager/Director)
Signed by: Jane Holt                             (Head, Regional Environment Sectoral Unit)
- 61 -






IBRD 31409
FED. REP OF YUGOSLAVIA                       -<                                                        1                                                                   FYR MACEDONIA
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)   50                                                                                                                     t                        ABYLON CENTERS FOR
'                           -Je5kows,--f '-jt' KRIVA  S                                         CHILDREN AND YOUTH
T. L. ~   ~.kf-. KRIVA
N..                                                               TooPnTbnac /99  -'-0'0UMA  )   PAUANKA                                                                                   POST CONFLICT GRANT
Tr         r .KPUh UMANOVO 
/0K   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  [JAY                                                                                         3    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BABYILON 200
t            y        W              KIELAVToW GOQdO   >N                       ti / ioL KRTOO                 INIC      }                      BUGAI                                 *BDYO   999CPTNAA
Blgacec
t  GOST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIVR /1%,V                                           ,r| ,   ,  uBejok-e ?-=KIt-RAINLBUD2
T.                                                                                                                                                    BABYLON 1999~0  -.' B
<  - a0/ t BROb < ti <ovis / BER~~~~~~~~~~~~KRAOVO                                                                                BULGAsOMTRIA
2PRSTPKCN    -~   
KL               <DELCIyO                                                          __   0A        im4u y SECONDARY ROADS
0   SELECTED CITES
K   <                                                                                                                                            '/-'  ~/\ttISELA  t  S ;nicr \ ^ s .iNco  OPSTlNA CAP TAL$
;LB NI  . >   \    t     o q                                                                                                                                                   NAYION |  CARTA$
-  OPSTINA9 BOUNDARIED
GOSTIVAR             ho C' rA
I     Volkooio    7                                                                                                             i                                 _ i   '  P  C                -  -  N                       ,L BN   S
BROTD  TITOV                                              (      2    ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BER6VO  *j)              I         30 EJLOMFEBS
JO/I                                                                                                                                       5~~~~~~~~~~~V                1'5              3D MILES
Ki E 0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-?                                       \RADOVIS             ~       K                                                h,npopooehr.oD,oJroTeolBn
X ,                  *\Thi.hopopnd-n,oood b .n M.,;Dorion.UndtnYoTh. Wnodd ono-kr
/Kroeno                                                                                                                    on this ntoprlo no! innpi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ on rh, port of The Woold Bock Ohnoop,d --pyOpny f h.   .,d B.k   -p
'}KR  Va                 /                 tokgo                                                               . . . . .1SLOVK REP. ''[   UKRA.JNEr                                        o
STRriGA                                                        PRILEP~                '                  (/ 
tjOHRID    k        E9NPRLPU--<                                                                          0 t4d.oAI                                                             HUNGARY
N.  ..~~~  H154                                 cf-      (   \AVA~~~~DARCI           ~         4 '\yC0TA 
SBrfl~~~~~~j  \,-<T.~~~~~~~~~                                           43                                                      Lako --           ?SLOYENL~~~)GVGLIJ~"RCATA5 'I.   B' OMANIA 
5/  (                              ,/tN.r                               .    L'                     Kar{irrio                     BOSNIAAND / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSIAAN
RE   N                                                                                                                                          HE~~~~~~  \ORZEGOVINLRi,
ALBANIA                                     0o>BITOLA                                          )                                     ojsooi                                                                   , GDAI 
\OIrrid                                                                                                                               /r              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BULGARIA
Sto      &/~~~~FYR   (        $
~~~ itoko  Knemoorco                                             'U                                                                    {   tPACBDGNIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAEDNIA
-'             GREECE                                                                      N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEECE ~      >~
1    N-                       ~~~                                                                                                             K.   '<    (5/ GREECE                   TURKELakeKY-i
P-opo9 
APRIL 2001



