Report No. PID9896
Project Name                     Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of-
Children and Youth Development Project (LIL)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project ID                       MKPE73483
Borrower(s)                      GOVT. OF FYR MACEDONIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL POLICY
"Dame Gruev" St., Apt. 14
1000 Skopje, FYR of Macedonia
Contact Person: Mr. Bedredin Ibrahimi,
Minister
Tel: 389 91 117787
Fax: 389 91 220408
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                January 18, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 28, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
A. For preschool children--under the main responsibility of the Ministry
of Labor and Social Policy--the key issues are to: (1) significantly
expand Early Child Care and Development (ECCD) coverage in the country by
helping communities to address the development needs of the youngest
children and their families, through new government-NGO-beneficiary
collaboration mechanisms; (2) promote community and individual
participation in carrying out child-related public policies and practices,
even in the country's smallest administrative units. The socialist
approach was to care for children of working mothers, particularly
through pre-primary education. A vastly different concept now prevails.
Rather than through direct child care, ECCD is effected by a critical
improvement of parenting skills, knowledge, practice, and
responsibilities. Better parenting is far more fruitful, but its
application is more painstaking. Though the government has maintained a
system of very good preschool facilities, the coverage is limited and is
geared toward better-off urban families. Despite these difficulties,
experience has shown that the new approach not only benefits children but
also gives parents greater confidence, which, in turn, creates more
community involvement and cohesion. In particular, the new approach
contributes to:        (1) strengthening the family's unity of purpose,
thereby decreasing violence and dissension among family members;
(2) promoting gender equality, urban-rural balance, and social cohesion
among different communities, since need is a main criterion for receiving
service. B. Some programs will target children attending school, and
will be additional to the regular study curriculum. These programs will
cover learning for life, typical adolescence issues, youth-family
relations, group activities, and civic participation, and will also focus
on character formation and constructive social behavior. Dropout recovery



activities will be included within the framework for implementing the
Strategy for Education, issued by the relevant ministry in June 2000. Also
included will be the extension to all schools of the anti-drug program, as
part of the five-year National Plan and the public sector reform.C. The
GOM is aware that a youth strategy is needed to define objectives and
methods for fostering the social integration of youth. Macedonia's
Statistical Office gathers a considerable amount of well-structured data
that could be useful in formulating the strategy. The Statistical Office
has also issued a report on Young People in Transition (November 1999).
The existing information may be sufficient for the project's purposes,
once it is disaggregated and recast, and social indicators related to
youth expanded and systematized. A mechanism also needs to be established
to feed the indicators into the strategy to keep it up-to-date.
2. Objectives
The project main development objective is to promote the social
integration of children, adolescents and youth from different cultural
backgrounds in the development process of Macedonia . In particular the
project will:(a) facilitate the access to community based Early Child
Care and Development (ECCD) services for children (0-6) especially for
children living in remote and isolated areas; (b) test community-based
approaches to support adolescents and youth at risk (14-24) and prevent
their marginalisation and reduce exposure to abuse (drug, alcohol, etc..);
(c) strengthen the institutional capacity at central and local level to
address children and youth issues by (i) monitoring social trends
affecting youth and assess the impact of project activities, and (ii)
raising awareness and commitment of policy makers and communities for
children and youth issues.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
N.A.
4. Description
The project's main objective is to extend to the national level and
broaden the scope of the social development activities, aimed at improving
the quality of life of Macedonian children and youth, which have been
successfully piloted during the two phases of the post conflict grant. In
order to ensure the medium and long-term sustainability of these
activities, the proposed Learning and Innovation Lending (LIL) will aim at
building institutional capacity at central and local levels, through the
launching of a youth strategy, an M&E system and training and awareness
raising activities for public officials.     Component 1: Early Child Care
and Development (ECCD)In 1999, during the refugee crisis unleashed by the
bombing of Yugoslavia, the World Bank gave a 2 million USD post-conlict
grant to UNICEF in the FYR of Macedonia to support the communities hosting
refugee children and their families. Under this grant, still under
implementation, 30,000 children aged 0-7 were covered at an annual cost of
child/per capita 18.50 USD. The ECCD is a very cost-effective program and
the Government is therefore committed to scale it up through a LIL, as it
currently covers only about 20t of all Macedonian children in pre-primary
age. Another 11  of children in the same age group are covered by other
governmental and non governmental programs. This still leaves some 69t of
all children aged 0-7 uncovered by any program.The component therefore
extends activities (i) tested under the post conflict grant to the
majority of the country's communities, with priority for the neediest, and
-2 -



(ii) redesigned as Better Parenting. UNICEF will direct the assistance
that will be provided by trained staff as well as by local volunteers.
Community support for the program is ensured by UNICEF's network of
community based groups and sympathizers, particularly women's
associations. The budget allocation for the proposed component is US $
2.5 million. The project will finance (a) part of the cost of running the
existing ECCD centers for approximately 30,000 children (0-6) throughout
the country and for the all duration of the project but on a declining
basis (small equipment, pedagogical material, training for personnel); and
(b) capacity building for trainers, caregivers, educators, volunteer
staff, etc..Components 2: YouthDuring the second phase of the post
conflict grant implementation, UNICEF has been piloting youth activities
in 8 urban locations throughout the country. The beneficiaries are
currently nearly 4,000 children/youth aged 7-24, and their parents and
teachers. The youth activities are totally inter-ethnic and cover sports,
computer and IT training, English language, social skills and creativity
(art, music, drama, etc.), journalism, debates, seminars and worshops,
additional to the regular scolastic activities which cover 60 percent of
those age cohorts. Another major activity is also ongoing as part of the
post conflict grant piloting, which is funding the extension of a drug
prevention program implemented by the Agency for Youth and Sports to the
92 secondary schools existing in the country (compared with the 55 schools
initially covered by the Agency), and the consolidation of the program's
organization. According to the Youth Needs and Resource Assessment
(November 2000), these are the only existing systemic efforts specifically
directed to youth in the country.Under this component, the project will
(i) continue to test methods and the experimentation carried out in 8
existing centers financed by the Post Conflict grant and (ii) establish 8
new centers (average cost for one new center is US$ 100,000 for the whole
duration of the project). If lessons are successful, the project will
support the process of taking over activities organized by the centers
from local governments and communities with support from the central
government. Criteria to locate the new centers run by local NGOs will be
identified during the first year of the project implementation, based on
lessons learned from the already existing centers. Tentative criteria
include (a) geographical coverage based on needs and availability of
social services for the youth and on ethnic diversity, etc; (b) existing
local capacity, the efficiency of the existing NGOs and their
participatory approaches and (c) scope for community ownership.The
existing eight centers targeting approximately 4,000 children/youth aged
7-24 are already carrying out some relevant activities divided into two
groups, one for children and one for teenagers. The existing programs for
children include activities such as (a) creativity (handcrafts, games,
drawing, music and drama), (b) computer training, (c) basic English, (d)
social skills, and (e) Sport/physical exercise. For the adolescents and
teen-agers, activities include (a) information and connection technology,
ICT, (b) English, (c) street law (constitutional law, human rights,
democracy, civic education and participation), (d) social skills, (e)
debate, including role playing, by the teenagers themselves on critical
issues for youth, parents, friends, schools, careers, social life,
entertainment, etc., (f) sports and (g) journalism. Parents are also
benefiting from the above centers by the increased awareness on adolescent
and teenagers issues as these themes are discussed in the documentation
distributed by the centers (paper, seminars or videos) or during events
organized within the centers. The allocated budget for the proposed
-3 -



component is US $ 1.5 million and includes financing of 8 already existing
centers and the establishment of 8 new ones. The allocation is planned as
follows: each new center costs on average US$ 100,000 (investment and
recurrent costs) for the whole duration of the project (US$ 800,000); the
already existing centers will cost in recurrent costs the equivalent of
approximately 40,000 per center (US $ 320,000) and US $ 300,000 are
foreseen for development of pedagogical material, training of staff in
the national and local government, and general support to the centers.
Component 3.   The component will support (i) the establishment of the PIU
and the identification of training needs (i.e, procurement); (ii) a policy
dialogue and strategy to involve and promote the ownership of the proposed
program within policy makers and communities; (iii) the establishment of a
mechanism for monitoring social trends affecting youth and beneficiaries
responsiveness to the proposed activities and awareness raising programs
with policy makers and communities. As part of the M&E activities , the
PIU will identify the adequate capacity and promote partnership with the
National Office for Statistics, and /or other relevant department within
universities and /or the national agency for Youth and Sport, for the
development of baseline indicators, yearly beneficiary assessments, etc..
In order to make the first two components more effective and sustainable,
this component will aim at mainstreaming children and youth issues and
human rights of public concern (i.e. enforcing the birth registration
requirements, combating corporal punishment practices in schools,
awareness raising programs on the rights of children and adolescents,
especially as to sexual abuse, trafficking of human beings and family
violence), with a holistic and gender-focused child rights approach. The
full committment by the Macedonian government is assured by the leading
role the Minister of Labor and Social Policy has in the Government and by
the Action Plan drafted by the Social Cohesion Working Group of the
Stability Pact for South East Europe which specifically indicates the full
social integration and empowerment of ethnic minorities, women and
vulnerable groups such as children and youth, as a key element for a
lasting stability and the reduction of social tensions at country and
regional level to be pursued with all the regional Ministers of Labor and
Social Affairs (Enlarged Meeting of the Stability Pact Social Cohesion
Working Group, Conclusion of the Chairman and the Co-hosts, Paris
December 2000).
1. Early Child Care and Development
Ages 0-6.
2. Youth.
Ages 7-13 and 14-24
3. Institutional Development
(Strategy, Social Observatory,
Public Outreach Campaign and
PMU set up cost)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               5
6. Implementation
The Project is to be implemented over a period of four years. The Ministry
- 4 -



of Labor and Social Policy, lead ministry responsible for general
directives, periodical progress review, and annual planning for the
implementation of the three project components. The project will be
managed by a PMU to be hosted in the Agency for Youth and Sports. A
Project inter-ministerial Steering Committee, which will include a couple
of NGOs, will oversee the project activities selection process.      The
Early Child Care and Development Component will be implemented under the
responsibility of the PMU, and the technical support for the
implementation will be provided through a service contract with UNICEF.
Component 2 will be a program directly managed by the PMU to be fully
developed during project implementation. During appraisal, the mission
will choose at least 3 more youth centers to be developed during the LIL.
The remaining 5 youth centers will be selected during the first year of
project management. The appraisal mission will define selection criteria
for the new youth centers on the basis of (i) geographic considerations
(areas with very limited access to services for children and youth and
with high incidence of unemployment, drug trafficking and crime); (ii)
efficiency considerations, with reference to availability of adequate
technical capacity by NGOs and CBOs; (iii) community ownership of the
project concept and participation. Selection criteria, particularly for
the new youth centers to be funded under the LIL, will be refined over the
next few months of piloting. The project Steering Committee will oversee
the youth centers selection process. The activities under Component 3,
particularly the Children and Youth Strategy will be promoted by the PMU,
under the leadership of the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, and in
coordination with other relevant ministries. In addition, the PMU will be
directly responsible for (i) the public outreach campagn activities,
including awareness raising activities aimed at public officials as part
as the Youth Strategy Development.
7. Sustainability
The project will strengthen the institutional capacity at central and
local level to address children and youth issues and will therefore raise
awareness and committment of policy makers and communities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
NA
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Project would benefit the natural environment.
Environment-raising awareness and environment improving components are
within the Project scope. No negative effects can be expected on habitat,
natural resources, landscape or other ecological aspects. The PMU will
check and monitor the possible negative environmental effects, however
minimal, related to the treatment of proper drainage of hygienic services,
the safety of paints and other construction materials used in some
rehabilitation work. During the appraisal the mission will appraise the
adequacy of the environmental local legislation.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Gloria de Silva
-5-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458-7646
Fax:   202 522-0696
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
- 6 -



