                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No:ICR0000000087




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                              (Credit No. 3540-MK )

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR2.0 MILLION (US$3.02 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

               FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                      FOR A

              CHILDREN AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                   LEARNING AND INNOVATIN LOAN (LIL)

                                  June 29, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective 09/30/2006)

                       Currency Unit = MKD
                      MKD 1.00 = US$ 48.0960
                      US$ 1.00 = MKD 0.0208

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1- December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AYS     Agency of Youth and Sports
BYC     Babylon Youth Center
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDCP    Community Development and Culture Project
CDP     Community Development Project
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CO      Country Office
CYDP    Children & Youth Development Project
DTF     Dutch Trust Fund
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
ECCD    Early Child Care and Development
EU      European Union
FMS     Financial Management System
FOSIM   Foundation Open Society Institute Macedonia
FYR     Former Yugoslav Republic
GoM     Government of Macedonia
HD      Human Development
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
ISR     Implementation Status Report
IT      Information Technology
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MTR     Mid-term Review
NGOs    Non-Governmental Organizations
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCF     Post-Conflict Fund
PMU     Project Management Unit

PS       Procurement Specialist
QSA      Quality of Supervision Assessment
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WB       World Bank
WDR      World Development Report


                    Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                  Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                   Sector Manager: Maninder S. Gill
             Project Team Leader: Gloria La Cava
                 ICR Team Leader: Gloria La Cava

                                         FYR Macedonia
               Macedonia Children and Youth Development Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 45
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 48
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Children & Youth
Country:                Macedonia               Project Name:         Development Project
                                                                      (LIL)
                                                                      IDA-35400,NETH-
Project ID:             P073483                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      52502
ICR Date:               06/29/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     LIL                     Borrower:             MACEDONIA
Original Total
                        XDR 2.0M                Disbursed Amount:     XDR 1.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Agency for Youth and Sports
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of Netherlands
Directorate General for Development Cooperation


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/18/2001    Effectiveness:         03/12/2002         03/12/2002
Appraisal:             02/28/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/26/2001    Mid-term Review:       06/20/2005         06/14/2005
                                     Closing:               07/31/2006         07/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               10                  10
Other social services                                           80                  80
Sub-national government administration                          10                  10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                        Primary          Secondary
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                        Secondary         Secondary
Other social protection and risk management                    Primary            Primary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary           Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                       Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos            Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:           Maninder S. Gill                  Alexandre Marc
Project Team Leader:      Gloria La Cava                    Gloria La Cava
ICR Team Leader:          Gloria La Cava
ICR Primary Author:       Zeynep Ozbil



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project's main development objective was to significantly increase social cohesion
through the social integration of youth at risk from different socio-cultural backgrounds.
In particular, the project aimed to: (a) test community-based approaches to support



                                              ii

adolescents and youth at risk (ages 15-24), prevent their marginalization and reduce
exposure to abuse (drug, alcohol, etc.) and conflict; (b) strengthen the institutional
capacity at central and local levels to address children and youth issues by: (i)
contributing to the preparation and implementation of a Children and Youth Strategy; (ii)
monitoring social trends affecting youth and assessing the impact of project activities;
and (iii) building the financial sustainability of youth activities through cost effectiveness
and increasing private and local public contributions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Affinity of Youth Center participants for different ethnic groups significantly
                increased by end of project.
                                                                               96 (7-14 year old)
                                                                               89 (15-18 year old)
                                                                               94 (19-24 year old)

                93 (7-14 year old)                                             Note: measured

                Note: measured among                                           among 16,000

                4,800 beneficiaries aged                                       beneficiaries per

Value           7-14 that were the                                             year aged

quantitative or original beneficiaries of  100                                 7 - 24 years old

Qualitative)    the Program                (for all age groups)

                NA (15-18 year old)                                            M&E data show

                NA (19-24 year old)                                            minority
                                                                               participation
                                                                               (Albanians and
                                                                               Roma) in BYCs
                                                                               doubled between
                                                                               2003 and 2006
Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                          05/15/2006

Comments        Percentage of target achieved: 93%. This indicator was measured by an affinity

(incl. %        index. Given the lack of baseline for youth (15-24), this index was

achievement)    complemented by beneficiary survey data which showed 47% increase in
                interethnic friendships by completion.

Indicator 2 :   High level of satisfaction of children and youth beneficiaries with Youth Center
                programs.
                80% (7-14 year olds)
Value           Note: at Project launch                                        97% (7-14 year

quantitative or only this age group was    100%                                olds)

Qualitative)    participating in the Youth                                     96% (15-24 year

                Centers                                                        olds)

Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                          06/25/2006
Comments        Percentage of target achieved: nearly 100% across all age groups


                                                iii

(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  New Youth Centers established and operational
Value                                      31 (23 existing                    33 (23 existing
(quantitative  23 (already existing)       BYCs plus 8 to be                  BYCs plus 10
or Qualitative)                            newly opened)                      newly opened)
Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                         05/15/2006

Comments       Percentage of target achieved: more than 100%

(incl. %       2 new Babylon Youth Centers (BYCs) additional to the initialy expected 8

achievement)   BYCs. Coverage of beneficiaries increased from 4,800 per year at baseline to
               16,000 per year by project completion.
               Institutional capacity strengthened at central Ministry, local government and
Indicator 2 :  community levels. At the community level, measured through:
                (a) Share of recurrent costs covered by local communities' budgets
Value
(quantitative  0                           at least 50%                       54.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                         05/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Percentage of target achieved: More than 100%

achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Robust youth center program piloted and tested in terms of participant ages,
               ethnicity and gender
                                           All 6 activity
                                           programs
                                           designed, piloted                  All designed and

                                           and modified                       tested successfully:

                                           successfully for                   - youth and parents

                                           sub-age groups:                    expressed positive

                                           - lower drugs                      effects on
                                                                              prevention
Value                                      trends                             - 60% of young
(quantitative  Not tested.                 - increase in                      girls managing
or Qualitative)                            young girls
                                           managing BYCs                      BYCs at project

                                           - lower                            completion from

                                           unemployment                       initial 10%

                                           trends                             - positive impact on

                                           - high beneficiary                 employability

                                           satisfaction                       - 94% said

                                           -increase in                       programs met needs

                                           willingness to pay
Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                         06/30/2006



                                                iv

Comments       Percentage of target achieved: 100%

(incl. %       The 6 programs were designed for the 15 -24 years olds. But the age group 19-

achievement)   24 was predomininant in entrepreneurial skills, advanced English and IT.
               Beneficiary distribution was balanced for gender and ethnicity.
Indicator 4 :  At least 10 Youth Centers fully sustainable by end of project
Value
(quantitative  0                           10                                  28
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                          05/15/2006
Comments       Percentage of target achieved: 280%
(incl. %       28 BYCs, rather than the initial target of 10, are fully financially sustainable with
achievement)   local government and community contributions.
               Institutional capacity strengthened at central Ministry, local government and

Indicator 5 :  community levels. At the central level, measured through:
                (a) Relevant Agency Youth and Sports and ministry officials trained (%of
               target)
Value
(quantitative  0                           100%                                100%
or Qualitative)                            (100 officials)

Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                          05/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Percentage of achieved target: 100%
achievement)
               Institutional capacity strengthened at central Ministry, local government and
Indicator 6 :  community levels. At local government level, measured through:
               (c) Relevant Local Government personnel trained (%of target)
Value
(quantitative  0                           100%                                80%

or Qualitative)                            (200 officials)                     (160 officials)

Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                          05/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Percentage of achieved target: 80%
achievement)
               Institutional capacity strengthened at central Ministry, local government and

Indicator 7 :  community levels. At the central level, measured through:
                (a) Relevant Agency Youth and Sports and ministry officials trained (%of
               target)
Value
(quantitative  0                           100%                NA              100%
or Qualitative)                            (100 officials)

Date achieved 12/15/2002                   07/31/2006                          05/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Percentage of achieved target: 100%
achievement)
               Institutional capacity strengthened at central Ministry, local government and
Indicator 8 :  community levels. At local government level, measured through:
               (c) Relevant Local Government personnel trained (%of target)
Value          0                           100%                NA              80%



                                                v

(quantitative                            (200 officials)              (160 officials)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2002                 07/31/2006                   05/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Percentage of achieved target: 80%
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                          IP          Disbursements
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1     07/25/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.00
  2     02/05/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.00
  3     03/26/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.00
  4     10/24/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.34
  5     04/22/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.53
  6     11/10/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.81
  7     06/16/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.16
  8     12/20/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.45
  9     06/21/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.67
  10    07/08/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.67
  11    09/08/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.67
  12    07/19/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.90



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Following the refugee crisis as a result of the conflict in Kosovo in 1999, the World Bank
gave a US$2 million post-conflict grant to FYR Macedonia to support communities and
households hosting refugee children and their families. With the end of the refugee crisis,
the grant shifted its focus to three areas. The first was on Early Child Care Development,
(ECCD). The second was on non-formal education activities, mainly life skills imparted
through community based youth-friendly spaces denominated Babylon Youth Centers,
(BYCs). At the time of appraisal, BYCs provided the only available public program
addressing youth development in FYR Macedonia. However, their activities were limited
to 8 urban centers, and focused only on children and adolescents. Rural needs and those
of young people aged 19-24 were therefore not covered. The third area of focus was a
drug prevention program implemented by the Agency of Youth and Sports (AYS), in 55
out of 92 secondary schools around the country.

The CAS Progress Report 2000 emphasized that social cohesion is key to sustainable
development. But it pointed out that wide ethnic differences and regional imbalances
make FYR Macedonia particularly vulnerable to inter-ethnic tensions and present a threat
to its social cohesion. Because of these differences, ensuring equal access to services and
economic and social opportunities is an important challenge. The 2001 conflict brought
to the surface the underlying ethnic divide in the country and raised the awareness among
both the international and local policy makers of the urgent need to strengthen conflict
resolution and social cohesion mechanisms.

At the time of appraisal in February 2001, the following issues were particularly relevant
for FYR Macedonia's youth: conflict, crime, drug addiction, sexually transmitted diseases
and unemployment. The number of children with delinquent behavior had almost doubled
in the five years preceding the PAD. In the same period, the number of registered drug
abusers increased fourfold and the number of criminal acts by juveniles increased by 50%.
The share of some ethnic groups in secondary education (especially Albanians, Roma and
Turks) did not correspond to their proportional share in the total population, particularly
in terms of the female participation. Schools were segregated along ethnic lines and there
were no spaces for inter-ethnic interaction. The World Bank responded to the
Government of Macedonia (GoM's) request for this project in the context of its
community development approach to strengthen social cohesion, particularly following
the 2001 conflict.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project's main development objective was to significantly increase social cohesion
through the social integration of youth at risk from different socio-cultural backgrounds.
In particular, the project aimed to: (a) test community-based approaches to support



                                              1

adolescents and youth at risk (ages 15-24); (b) prevent their marginalization and reduce
exposure to abuse (drug, alcohol, etc.) and conflict; and (c) strengthen the institutional
capacity at central and local levels to address children and youth issues by: (i)
contributing to the preparation and implementation of a Children and Youth Strategy; (ii)
monitoring social trends affecting youth and assessing the impact of project activities;
and (iii) building the financial sustainability of youth activities through cost effectiveness
and increasing private and local public contributions.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N.A.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary target beneficiaries were the youth aged between 15 and 24. Within the
beneficiary population, the 18-24 years age group posed a particular challenge. The
Project extended the approach to this group, while maintaining a broader range of
activities targeting children and adolescents under 15 years within the existing youth
centers.

The areas with higher marginalization, higher poverty rates, more risk of ethnic tensions
were targeted more specifically. Unlike the earlier emphasis of the Post Conflict Fund
(PCF) on urban areas, the Project reached out to rural youth. In addition, the project
specifically pursued a gender balance in life skills/leadership training and participation in
youth activities, targeting female drop-outs from secondary school.

As part of the institutional strengthening component, the Project also targeted the AYS,
the line Ministries and municipalities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Youth

This component carried out three main activities: (1) scaled up the program of life
education for youth through the BYCs; (2) explored new innovative approaches for youth
social integration by piloting new forms of outreach and targeting; and (3) expanded the
innovative drug abuse prevention program of AYS to all secondary schools in FYR
Macedonia and to the BYC.

Under this component, the project: (i) continued to test methods and experimentation
through the 8 existing BYCs; (ii) supported the expansion of this program to an
additional 15 sites which were initially developed under the PCF (which had resources to
cover the initial investment costs but not staff costs nor program and activities
development); and (iii) established additional centers to experiment with innovative new


                                               2

approaches like community-based HIV/AIDS and drug prevention program In the latter
case, the programs were established in existing buildings in which small youth centers in
rural areas were set up as satellite units for the larger urban-based centers.

Component 2: Institutional Development

The institutional development component supported and consolidated the youth
component by: (i) supporting the participatory development of the Children and Youth
Strategy to promote ownership and sustainability of the proposed program among the
policy makers and communities; (ii) establishing a monitoring mechanism to facilitate
institutional learning and improvement of the program inter alia by monitoring social
trends affecting youth and beneficiaries' responsiveness to program activities and
awareness raising programs; and (iii) launching a public information campaign about the
program. This Component also included the establishment of the Project Management
Unit (PMU). The Children and Youth Strategy aimed at: (i) fostering institutional
cooperation at the national and municipal levels to support project objectives in a
sustained way; (ii) strengthening the operational partnerships between local NGOs and
communities on children and youth issues; (iii) disseminating best practices learned from
ongoing and future activities; and (iv) establishment of a coordination process at the
institutional level.

1.6 Revised Components

N.A.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

In practice the Youth Component scaled up the existing program of life skills training
initially developed by UNICEF for the age group 7 to 14 years old introducing 6 new
training modules (i.e. debates, healthy livestyles, arts for social change, entrepreneurial
skills, advanced language training and advanced IT training) for the older age groups (15
to 24 years) throughout the existing BYCs (8 at the time of appraisal and 23 at project
launch). It also introduced a new model of youth-friendly spaces managed by youth-led
NGOs on a demand driven basis, in partnership with local governments, marking a shift
from the existing model of centralized youth centers. In the new model, the programs
were established in existing public spaces in disadvantaged urban and rural communities.

During Project implementation concerns were expressed by beneficiaries and
communities that sports facilities were either unavailable or in poor condition and there
were no organized sports activities for young people. Upon request from the Ministry of
Finance, the Credit Agreement was amended and 0.45 Million US$ was reallocated upon
managerial approval for refurbishment of small sport playgrounds under Component
Youth, as can be seen in the increased cost of the youth component (see annex 1 for
appraisal estimates and actual estimates). The appreciation of XDR vis-à-vis the US



                                                3

dollar made it possible to finance sports activities with added positive impact, without
affecting any of the originally planned activities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The LIL incorporated several important lessons from the implementation of the World
Bank PCF, which targeted children and adolescents up to the age of 18. At the time of the
PCF implementation, there was very little ownership of the Project by municipalities. The
decentralization process which would have given greater financial autonomy to local
governments was delayed. However, given the lack of fiscal resources, in some limited
cases the municipalities were able to provide only space for the Youth Centers.

Given the lack of ownership, cooperation from the municipalities was limited,
significantly   impacting     the   success    and    sustainability   of    project   outcomes.
Implementation of the PCF made clear that seeking the involvement of the local
government at the beginning of the project produces stronger results. To this end, the
Children and Youth Development Project (CYDP) sought municipal involvement from
the start. In addition, to address the problem of limited financial resources at the local
level, the Project helped to diversify the sources of income generation (private sector,
municipalities, beneficiaries, etc.).

At the time of Project appraisal, FYR Macedonia was emerging from an inter-ethic
conflict. The political instability could have significantly influenced Project
implementation. In order to address potential risks to implementation, project design
foresaw the use of grass-roots organizations in the management of local youth activities,
unlike the centralized approach followed by UNICEF during the implementation of the
PCF. A consultative stakeholders' workshop, organized by the World Bank and UNICEF
in early 2001, integrated stakeholders' views, inputs, ideas and concerns into the project
design. The LIL also promoted a wide geographic distribution of youth activities across
FYR Macedonia to create greater opportunities for cultural interaction and minimize the
impact of potential conflict in some communities on the overall project.

The LIL was prepared on a very fast track to meet the deadline for IDA funds, in view of
FYR Macedonia's graduation to IBRD. This limited the ability of the project team to
develop a comprehensive impact evaluation plan, which was a shortcoming at entry and
subsequently during project implementation.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Due to the disruptions caused by the 2001 conflict, the subsequent political instability,
delayed effectiveness of the Credit (March 12, 2002) and the change in government


                                                4

following elections in September 2002, overall Project implementation was more than
one year behind schedule, in relation to the timeline established in the Credit Agreement,.
As a result, there were delays in disbursements, with consequent delays in
implementation. Given the fact that youth activities in the Western part of the country
were disrupted significantly by conflict during 2001, a series of informative workshops
were launched in conflict-affected areas in Western Macedonia to ensure that they
received considerable attention in the start-up phase of the project.

Project activities were implemented at a very slow pace at the beginning, since the
Project and the PMU were under the direct control and supervision of the AYS, which
appointed the Project Director from among its civil servants. This did not serve the
project implementation well, as some activities were completely stalled during the
election period in 2002, which created an additional three-month delay in implementation.

Political changes in the AYS leadership also posed the risk of discontinuity in the PMU
technical team. The TTL and the Country Office timely addressed this risk by ensuring
that the new Project Director would base his decision on retaining the PMU team
members on strictly technical and merit-based, rather than, political criteria. Towards the
achievement of this goal, the TTL engaged in an intensive dialogue with the new AYS
management which resulted in an overall increased ownership of the project. During
2003 and 2004, the project team focused on ensuring that the sustainability of BYCs and
outreach to disadvantaged youth groups were given adequate attention by the PMU.
During this time, a local project officer was hired to strengthen field supervision. The
Mid-Term Review, conducted in May 2005, acknowledged progress of BYCs
sustainability while highlighting the constraints of those centers which were not yet self-
sustainable.

A Dutch grant of US$ 1 million became available in December 2004, but due to delays in
the transfer of funds, all three installments were received in late December 2005, which
delayed implementation arrangements. At the time of Project closure, 90% of the Dutch
funds were disbursed for capacity building programs and IT equipment for the expansion
of the BYC programs to young people aged 20-24, particularly in rural areas.

As noted by the QSA7 Review, "The Bank correctly focused at first on implementation
issues, institutional strengthening and financial and institutional sustainability, but was
slow to put in place arrangements for an impact assessment/evaluation which is critical to
the learning agenda." QSA7 Review noted that "the team needed an M&E expert with
qualitative and quantitative skills. Otherwise it was a good team with important field
office participation... The Project did measure the key variable (Affinity Index), but the
Panel remained concerned about the quality of data on impact of participation in youth
centers on youth behavior."

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Although an Impact Evaluation was initially not part of the M&E System, the Monitoring
and Evaluation design of the project included some very effective and replicable features



                                              5

in monitoring the project performance. In particular, the system was structured around: (i)
an overall monitoring of project inputs, outputs and performance indicators by the PMU,
including an affinity index to measure inter-ethnic engagement as a proxy for social
cohesion; (ii) participatory instruments to measure periodically the performance of
BYCs; and (iii) an initial survey of youth trends which would inform the National Youth
Strategy. As part of the participatory instruments, yearly beneficiary satisfaction surveys
tested the level of satisfaction among project beneficiaries, monitored the trend of the
demand for given programs, provided feedback to service providers and monitored
changes in attitudes of key-stakeholders. A final stakeholder workshop was organized to
solicit beneficiary and other stakeholder feedback on the overall success and
shortcomings of the project. These features of the M&E system are being replicated in
new youth development projects currently under implementation in Kosovo and the
North Caucasus.

As identified by the QSA7 review, a major shortcoming of the M&E system design was
the lack of an impact evaluation methodology. Both the WB supervision team and the
implementation agency acknowledged this shortcoming and commissioned an impact
evaluation methodology to an international consultant in early 2005 to specifically
measure the impact of the Youth Component, particularly that of BYC activities.
However, due to technical problems with the consultant's performance, the local research
team was unable to deliver the results of the impact evaluation, initially expected by May
of 2005. The PMU and the WB team then developed, with the assistance of the Human
Development (HD) chief economist, a retrofitting methodology to ensure more accurate
results. This method involved a comparison between young people who had been
exposed to the program for at least 1 year (19 year olds) and those who have taken up the
program, but have been exposed to it for a very short duration (18 year olds). The data
collection was conducted in summer 2006, at project closure, and by the time of this ICR
the preliminary findings of the impact evaluation became available (see section 3.2).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Quality of Supervision Assessment rated safeguard and fiduciary compliance of the
project satisfactory.

The project involved the rehabilitation of BYCs (dirt removal, soil leveling and asphalt
topping) for which field-based staff conducted on site supervision to ensure
environmental due diligence. No asbestos or toxic materials were used.

No social safeguards were triggered by the project.

On the procurement and FMS side, this LIL was supervised to an appropriate degree,
given the small scope of procurement under the Project. The PMU recruited a
Procurement Specialist (PS), as recommended in the PAD (main feature of the mitigation
plan) who performed well. The Bank PS carried out one ex-post review mission; the
review identified only few minor procedural procurement problems. The initial
(relatively simple) procurement plan was updated once. FM supervision was in


                                                 6

accordance with the risk-based approach and supported by good planning and
documentary evidence. FM issues were identified appropriately and dealt with in a timely
manner.

The Project experienced a rapid increase in disbursements in the last quarter of 2006,
which is in accordance with the formally revised disbursement schedule. The closing
dates of many of the consultancy and minor works contracts under the sport component
correspond to the closing date of the Project. Hence, all related payments were disbursed
at Project closure.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The majority of BYCs are fully sustainable except for 5 youth centers which have
insufficient local funding due to high poverty levels. During the last supervision mission
in May 2006, the project team had reached an agreement with the Director of the AYS
that funding for these 5 BYCs would be secured. However, given the government
changes after the June 2006 election resulting once again in a new political leadership at
the AYS, to this date the funding has not materialized. However, with a new potential
World Bank grant for implementing youth employment schemes, it is expected that the
Bank and the AYS will resume the policy dialogue on youth development issues, which
should also help to address the pending questions related to the 5 BYCs support.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project was formulated under the CAS for FYR Macedonia for FY04-06 that outlines
"Promoting social cohesion, building human capital, and protecting the most vulnerable"
as one of the three priority themes for the WB program in the country. Project objectives
were therefore consistent with the Bank's CAS at the time and the main development
objective of the CYDP, i.e., social cohesion of youth at risk clearly contributes directly to
the sector-related CAS goal. Through the BYCs, the project contributed to the increased
social cohesion CAS objective among ethnically different communities by creating safe
and tolerant environments for youth to interact. With its emphasis on non-formal
education programs (i.e., IT training, language training, life and livelihood skills), the
project contributed to the CAS objective of human capital development of young people.
With its emphasis on outreach strategies, the project reached-out to the most vulnerable
adolescents and youth in disadvantaged communities.

The current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY07-10 aims to accelerate FYR
Macedonia's perspective to join the European Union. One important outcome of the
CYDP implementation has been its contribution to the process of EU integration as it
relates to absorption of EU funds for Youth Programs in Macedonia. The EU Youth


                                                7

Program opened to FYR Macedonia as of January 1, 2007, and consequently EU funds
are becoming available at two levels: (a) direct funding to youth organizations and (b)
direct funding for the EU Youth Agency for FYR Macedonia (to be set up separately
from the AYS in 2007, but under its supervision). This new EU Youth Agency will
function until 2013 and will be responsible for continuing the capacity building of the
ministries, local governments, and NGOs. The CYDP PMU negotiated the EU Youth
Program membership on behalf of the AYS, which will ensure the reception of grants
from the European Community. The fact that the NGOs that are currently running the
BYCs have good communication and receive financial support from the AYS should help
them in the process of accessing EU funds.

The project has been relevant to the country priorities during implementation but the
lessons learned and outcomes continue to be relevant. The current CPS identifies the
importance of the decentralization process. One of the most important outcomes of the
project design and implementation was to contribute to the decentralization process
through the development of youth policies at the local level. Nine municipalities
requested the AYS support to develop local youth policies. Furthermore, a partnership
was created between the AYS, three Municipal Governments introducing a small grants
program for informal youth groups (non-organized youth). In addition, a total of 27, out
of 33 municipalities in which the project was active, received training on local youth
policy development.

An independent evaluation assessing the three community development projects in FYR
Macedonia, completed in June 2006, concluded that the main contributions of the Project
were in the area of strengthening of local organizations related to youth and local
communities and in fostering citizen participation in public life. The Project developed
institutional links with most local governments that further strengthened their capacities
to deal with youth issues and address their needs in the future. By strengthening the
municipal role in identifying priorities, allocating budgets and involving municipalities in
BYC activities, the project was successful in promoting long term sustainability.

Finally, the CYDP is mentioned in the 2007 World Development Report (WDR):
Development and the Next Generation, as a promising, but unproven intervention in
exercising youth citizenship, specifically through `building safe spaces and trust'. The
WDR was published before the impact evaluation data, briefly summarized in the next
section, became available. Several project outcomes derived from both qualitative and
quantitative impact evaluation data point to the relevance of community-based
interventions such as those promoted by the BYCs both in supporting youth transition to
citizenship, but also in their transition to work.




                                               8

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project fully achieved its development objective to significantly increase social
cohesion through the social integration of youth-at-risk from different socio-cultural
backgrounds. It created a network of multi-ethnic youth friendly spaces for young people
aged 15 to 24 years which fully reflect the local ethnic distribution or in some cases (e.g.
Roma) exceeds it. Such spaces successfully provide young people from different ethnic
groups with social integration opportunities as illustrated below.

Social integration of youth at risk from different socio-cultural background:

The project was successful in socially integrating youth at risk from different socio-
cultural backgrounds. Gender and ethnic distribution of BYCs beneficiaries was balanced
and inclusive of the most disadvantaged groups. Annually the Project was reaching
almost 16,000 youth at risk in regular BYC activities and 2,000 youth in programs
outside the BYCs, from the initial 4,800 beneficiaries. The ethnic composition of
beneficiaries in 2006 was as follows: Macedonians 71%; Albanians 15.7%; Romas 6.7%;
Turks 3.4%; Serbs 2%; Vlachs 1.2%. Most importantly, it should be noted that the
participation of the Albanian and Roma minority youth in BYCs' activities doubled between
2003 and 2006.

According to the analysis of the beneficiary enrollment forms (October 2005)
approximately 70% of the beneficiaries were coming from families with low income; 9
percent of total BYCs beneficiaries were out of school youth. Rural beneficiaries
accounted for 35% of the total number.

According to the 2005 Beneficiary survey, beneficiaries perceived the BYCs as one of
the few places, where young people could gather with their peers from other ethnic
communities unlike schools, bars, sports and music events. In this context, the
beneficiaries mentioned BYCs as places that offered possibilities for greater
communication and interaction for meeting other youth, learning about each other and
other cultures. While the Beneficiary survey 2006 indicated that only 20% of
beneficiaries stated that they did not have friends from other ethnic groups before they
started to visit the BYCs, by the end of the project 67% of them developed friendships in
the BYCs with peers from other ethnic groups which were maintained. Among the
beneficiaries from communities in which one ethnic group is largely predominant, 65%
stated that they now actively consider involving peers from other ethnic communities in
various activities undertaken by them. Among those, 80% actually participated in
projects with mixed ethnic groups, the majority of which are youth exchanges between
youth centers (43%), cultural activities (21%), sports tournaments, (16%), workshops and
seminars (9%), etc. An affinity index measuring the level of interaction among
beneficiaries from different ethnic groups in the course of BYCs activities showed high
values for all participating age groups (i.e 7-14 years, 15-18 years and 19-24 years), with
especially high affinity values for the youngest cohort.




                                                 9

Testing of community-based approaches to support adolescents and youth at risk:

The project was successful in testing community-based approaches as a means to support
adolescents and youth at risk. The testing of community based approaches resulted in a
shift from centralized management of BYCs to demand-driven community based BYCs
managed by youth-led NGOs, in partnership with local governments and located in
publicly-owned spaces in disadvantaged urban and rural communities. As discussed
throughout this ICR, the community-based model allowed for greater participation of
young people aged 15 to 24 in BYCs programming, both in the planning and
implementation of activities, introduction of young volunteers partially replacing the paid
educators, increased community contributions, allowed greater outreach to disadvantaged
young people and promoted greater institutional and financial sustainability.


Preventing youth marginalization and reducing exposure to abuse (drug, alcohol, etc.)
and conflict.

Another major achievement was the project's positive impact on beneficiaries'
employability and civic engagement and prevention of marginalization. The Impact
Evaluation Analysis (2007) shows that the 19 year olds who have spent more than two
years in the BYCs (benefiting from IT training, English language training and basic
livelihood skills) are more likely to be employed (either as employees or self-employed)
than 18 year-olds, with only one year or less of exposure to BYCs programming.
Specifically, 19 year olds with a longer exposure to BYCs, were found to be 16 percent
more employed than 18 year olds, who had been exposed for a year or less. However,
young Macedonian beneficiaries were much more likely to be working than either
Albanians or the other ethnic groups, and females were overall less likely to be working
than males.

Among the 19 year olds with a longer exposure to BYCs, the confidence about being
fully employed was 7 percent higher than among the 18 year olds who have been exposed
for a year or less. The percentage was 5 percent higher for the 19 years old as to self
employment (Impact Evaluation Analysis, 2006). Having taken IT and English language
training, for which certifications were provided, positively influenced the self-
employment decision. These positive expectations about employability are especially
relevant given that fear of being unemployed among young people in FYR of Macedonia
is pervasive.

The project also had a significant impact in inducing young people in participating in
their communities. Regarding civic engagement, the Impact Evaluation Analysis (2006)
shows that the longer the young people benefit from the BYC programs, the more active
they become in their communities, including participation in youth organizations, direct
interaction with municipalities, and participation in peaceful demonstrations. For
example, the 2006 impact evaluation shows that 25 percent of BYCs beneficiaries who
were enrolled as early as 2004 participate in community activities as active citizens, as
compared to 16 percent of those enrolled in 2005.



                                            10

The project seems to have also contributed to a decrease in violent behavior. Data on
trends related to youth violence were only available for one rural community, where a
correlation appears between the BYCs' activities and the reduction of violent behavior
among youth. According to official police records in the rural community of Caska,
violent behavior among young people significantly dropped as a percentage of the total
number of registered cases; (i) the percentage of registered cases of violent behavior
among youth aged up to 24 (registered reports on fights, school fights, bullying,
harassments, etc.) halved from 20% of the youth population at the end of 2003 to 10% at
the end of 2005; (ii) the percentage of registered criminal activities among youth up to 24
years old (petty crimes, etc.) dropped from 8% of the youth population at the end of 2003
to 5% at the end of 2005. Feedback from police officials, closely working on awareness
programs with the BYC, clearly attributed the decrease in violent behavior to the BYC
activities which addressed youth idleness in after-school hours.

Although there is no hard evidence as to the project impact on reducing health risks,
qualitative analysis suggest a positive impact of the project in preventing such risks. The
impact evaluation included a series of questions to BYCs beneficiaries related to their
behavioral changes with respect to smoking, drug abuse, alcohol and unsafe sex. Because
the responses on such risky behaviors among the sample participants (both treatment and
control groups) of the BYCs were extremely low --indicating that the respondents were
unwilling to address these sensitive questions-- it was not possible to measure the
respective impact of the BYCS in quantitative terms. However, as part of the qualitative
analysis, most respondents (especially young beneficiaries and their parents) noted the
positive role of BYC activities in raising awareness about healthy livestyles and in
preventing risky behaviors.

Strengthening institutional capacity at central and local levels to address children and
youth issues

The project reached its development objective of strengthening the institutional capacity
at central and local levels to address children and youth issues by contributing to the
preparation and implementation of: (i) a Youth Strategy, (ii) monitoring social trends and
(iii) building the financial sustainability of youth activities through cost effectiveness and
increased private and local public contributions.

The National Youth Strategy was developed and is being implemented with the
participation of 100 youth organizations, line ministries and donors and was adopted by
the Government in December 2005 (for more details see Annex 2). As part of this
decision, the Government stipulated the creation of a National Steering Committee which
is composed of 12 representatives of line ministries and government agencies and 12
elected representatives of the youth NGO sector. This co-management decision-making
structure that will steer the strategy implementation is considered a youth policy best
practice in South Eastern Europe. In 2001, the AYS was only administering a small
grants program for youth organizations. The Project has transformed AYS into a leading
policy institution in the youth field, contributing to its capacity to lead the development



                                               11

of the national youth strategy and cooperate with other governmental structures and the
youth NGO sector.

As part of the institutional strengthening component, the Project systematically trained
160 local authorities on the European Charter for the Participation of Young People in
Local and Municipal Life, and 100 representatives of line ministries in best practices on
national youth policy development, which significantly increase their capacities to design
and implement youth policies and programs at national and local level.

The monitoring of social trends affecting youth was initiated by the project as part of the
preparation of the National Strategy and will be periodically conducted by the AYS to
measure the overall effectiveness of the National Strategy implementation.

The project supported the social integration of youth at risk in FYR Macedonia in a
financially sustainable way. The project: (i) increased the cost effectiveness of youth
activities as measured by the decrease of costs per beneficiary (see section 3.3); (ii)
improved local level financing through cost recovery from users who are able to pay; (iii)
encouraged and increased the contribution of municipalities to these programs, and (iv)
introduced and supported a structured and coherent approach to raise funding from the
private sector and local donors. The approach to achieve financial sustainability has been
progressively implemented, full financial sustainability with Macedonian resources were
achieved by 28 out of 33 youth centers at the time of project closure. At the same time,
the program increased the number of beneficiaries and the quality of services.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Given the nature of the project, no comprehensive economic analysis was conducted at
the beginning of project implementation. Cost effectiveness was assessed through
projections of cost per beneficiary as a proxy for effectiveness and also through the
coverage of youth center expenses by local governments.

The cost per beneficiary declined from US$ 54 at Project launch to US$ 17 at project
completion, a much lower amount than the US$ 34 expected in the PAD. The cost per
beneficiary refers to all expenditures related to the Youth Center beneficiaries: facility
running costs, didactic materials, office supplies, salaries of staff, staff/volunteers training,
program expenses, local travel, equipment maintenance, etc. The cost per beneficiary
decrease resulted from the introduction of different sources of income generation,
community participation in activities, in-kind contribution and volunteer participation.
During the mid-term evaluation in June 2005, the cost per beneficiary was 13 US$. At the
time of project closure, the cost per beneficiary was slightly higher at 17 US$, as a result
of the new programs designed for youth aged 20-24 (additional fees for educators,
transportation costs for rural outreach, internet connection, equipment purchase etc.), all
supported under the Dutch grant.




                                             12

The Project has seen a steady increase in municipal support for the BYCs. For the 23
centers that existed before the Project, the level of municipal support for BYCs was
estimated at 13% of total funding. Today the support level is approximately 30% of total
funding. Among the 10 entirely new BYCs opened by the Project in the period 2004-
2005, the initial municipal support was estimated at 66% and today it is estimated at 79%.
These municipalities are providing support (in kind and financial) for BYC premises,
utilities, office supplies and partial or full coverage of staff salaries. Of the 33 existing
BYCs, 28 were self-sustaining (through income generating activities and partnership
agreements with municipalities) at the time of Project closure. Although the AYS had
committed to finance the five remaining BYCs which were not fully sustainable, at the
time of this ICR this support has not yet materialized (see Annex 3 for more details on
financial sustainability).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was in line with the CAS at the time it was developed and with the current
CPS. The achievement of the overall outcomes is rated satisfactory because all aspects of
the PDO were achieved (See section 3.2). The project demonstrated efficiency by
exceeding its high cost effectiveness targets (see section 3.3).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Although BYCs did not address beneficiary participation through categorical income-
based targeting, it naturally attracted the disadvantaged youth, who could not afford to
pay for cultural entertainment, internet access, language and other training at market
prices. The project addressed the non-income dimensions of poverty by providing access
to information, non formal learning and safe spaces for socialization.

Project also systemically tried to reach out to young girls in rural areas and ensure that
the beneficiary profile for the project reflect an overall gender balance. According to the
2006 Beneficiary Survey, boys represented 48% of the total number of beneficiaries in
comparison to 52% for female beneficiaries. A similar gender balance was observed
among BYC educators and volunteers. 58% of the Youth Centers staff is comprised of
17-24 year old girls. Out of 118 volunteers, 56% are 17-24 year old girls.

Project directly reflects the key objective of social development, related to "empowering
people by transforming institutions". By introducing NGOs founded and led by young
people, CYDP strengthened local organizations representing youth and opened a new
space for participation of young people in public life. CYDP was also effective in
creating youth groups in small, rural communities that do not possess many NGOs or
community based youth initiative groups.




                                               13

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The AYS has grown into a leading policy institution on youth issues in the country.
Today the AYS is consulted by all line ministries on youth-related issues, is a member of
9 steering committees, working groups and coordinating bodies dealing with youth-
related issues in the Government and in the youth sector. The Agency's Youth
Department has now 7 staff with a diverse set of skills who, apart from the small grants
program, lead the youth policy department, the international cooperation department, the
institutional and training and capacity building program, the youth entrepreneurship
program, and the non-formal education program. The budget of the Youth Department
saw a steady increase from 10 million MKD in 2002 to 12, 14, and 16 million MKD in
2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively. This accounts for a 60 percent increase in the budget
allocation since the beginning of the project.

A National Youth Steering Committee composed of 12 ministries and local government
representatives and 12 youth NGOs representatives was created by the GoM and is
chaired by the AYS, to follow on and develop policy recommendation throughout the
national youth strategy implementation 2005-2010. This provides for cross-sectoral and
multi-level coordination of youth issues in FYR Macedonia, and enables direct
participation of young people in the decision making process.

As part of the institutional strengthening component, the long-term capacity building that
the Project provided for the BYCs resulted in the creation of the BYC Network. The
Network is a legal non governmental organization composed of all 33 BYCs. The
objective of this Network is to further support the capacity building of the youth centers,
fundraise on behalf of the BYCs for joint future activities, and represent the BYCs vis-à-
vis governmental institutions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The stakeholder workshop conducted in Ohrid in July 2006 provided the following
general feedback of the CYDP.

    · BYCs are already recognized as a brand and as resource centers within their local
        communities;
    · Local municipal authorities recognize BYCs as a good potential partner and they
        are willing to work with the BYCs in order to achieve community development.
        Local authorities also acknowledge that the BYCs will play a crucial role in the
        development and implementation of local youth strategies;
    · BYCs are well integrated horizontally and their linkages within the Babylon
        network enable them to share relevant experiences, for example with respect to
        sustainability.



                                                14

The results of the 2006 Beneficiary Survey show that the BYC contributed to increased
tolerance among young people from different ethnic backgrounds. Among the
beneficiaries in multi-ethnic communities, 95% of those interviewed stated that they
work, play and participate together with young people from different ethnic backgrounds
and the BYCs helped them develop a better understanding of other cultures and youth
from different ethnic communities. The survey results also show that the Project
contributed to better educational performance, establishment of new friendships,
improved leisure activities for young people, and better quality of life for beneficiaries.
The detailed results of the beneficiary survey are provided in Annex 8.




4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The CYDP has successfully developed the capacity of various stakeholders including
AYS, local governments, and BYCs. It has increased the accountability of these
stakeholders and empowered the communities in which it was active. These positive
changes are well rooted and are expected to be reinforced, once the EU funds for youth
programs become available to FYR Macedonia. The political environment is overall
more stable and as a result, it is unlikely that the development outcome is at a significant
risk.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

World Bank performance at entry was largely satisfactory based on the: (a) consistency
of project objectives with government priorities for fostering social integration of youth;
(b) successful integration of the lessons learned and the experiences gained under the
PCF; (c) innovation of Project design which required the development of a monitoring
mechanism to facilitate institutional learning (e.g. by monitoring beneficiaries
responsiveness to program); and (d) efforts of the project team to identify and secure co-
financing for this project through the Dutch government, which agreed to also co-finance
CDP and CDCP in FYR Macedonia. Nevertheless, the project did not include an impact
evaluation methodology at the onset, which was remedied through retro-fitting
methodologies in later stages of project implementation. Given that intensive M&E and
knowledge gathering is a key element of a LIL, and given this shortcoming at the
beginning, the quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)



                                                15

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The
WB conducted detailed supervision missions during the first two years of project
implementation, when the basic implementation mechanisms had to be established.
Subsequently, as the client's ownership and capacity increased, the Bank supervisions
focused more specifically on institutional and financial sustainability of project activities.
Over the years, the Bank supervision team included several global experts, ranging from
youth employment specialist to the Children and Youth Advisor. The supervision team
however did not include any M&E specialist who could have improved the overall
quality of supervision. There were no outstanding fiduciary and safeguards issues. The
content of all project related documentation was objective, including the Aide-Memoires
and ISRs.

One important setback in overall Bank performance, as pointed out in the QSA7 Report
was the delay in the Mid-term review, which took place in June 2005, a year behind
schedule. Two factors contributed to this delay: i) Municipal Elections: Given that the
sustainability of BYC was a priority for the Project and for the CO, the Bank team
decided to wait for the March 2005 municipal elections before conducting an MTR to get
a clear indication of commitment from newly elected mayors to BYCs, without which the
sustainability assessments would not have been accurate, and ii) Delays in impact
evaluation: There was an unrealistic expectation that the initial results of the impact
evaluation would be ready by the time of the MTR, therefore strengthening the mid-term
assessment and providing advanced results for corrective action.

The Dutch donor raised concerns about project's sustainability as indicated in Section 7.
However, the team believes that these issues were thoroughly addressed during Project
supervision which is reflected in the positive forecasting of the BYC sustainability. The
Task Team Leader, and the team in the headquarters sought meetings with the Dutch
counterparts and extended invitations to participate in field supervision, which were duly
declined. Nevertheless, the Dutch representatives conducted parallel and unannounced
visits to the BYCs, without informing at any point neither the task team leader nor the
Agency of Youth and Sports, thus creating a serious communication gap. Finally, the
Dutch were invited to the key dissemination events for the project, i.e. the workshop on
the National Youth Policy and the final stakeholder workshop, which they did not attend.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance was satisfactory overall, during the project identification,
preparation and implementation stages. Information gathered during the identification
mission and the lessons learned from the PCF were effectively incorporated into project
design. There was timely coordination and communication between the CO, the task team
and the PMU on all project related matters. Regular supervision missions were
undertaken and a staff member in the field office was assigned for the close monitoring
of the implementation process. Additional efforts were made to discuss outstanding
issues with the borrower both during missions and through regular communication.



                                             16

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the Government is rated satisfactory due to the overall
timeliness and quality of implementation. Ownership was strong throughout project
preparation and implementation with effective guidance and supervisory role performed
by the Ministry of Finance. The Government was fully committed to the Project
implementation. It provided for timely government counterpart funding, except at the
time of project closure due to disruptions caused by changes in Government officials. It
also provided for significant dialogue and input from different governmental agencies
and partners to the Project activities by establishing the CYDP Steering Committee in
2002 and consequently the National Youth Strategy Steering Committee in 2005. Further
commitment was demonstrated by achieving high participation of government and
municipal officials to the capacity building activities and the fact that Ministries
committed funds for different programs foreseen in the National Youth Strategy. The
central government also established a quality dialogue with the youth NGO sector not
only through the AYS but also as part of other sectoral polices.




                                            17

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

AYS           Project's overall implementation was over a year behind schedule due to the
              disruptions caused by the 2001 conflict, the subsequent political instability,
              the belated credit effectiveness, and the change in government following
              elections in September 2002. Despite delays in Project launch, the
              implementing agency performance for the duration of the Project is rated as
              satisfactory due to the following reasons:

              The implementing agency remained dedicated and fully committed to the
              Project implementation, maintaining adequate financial management
              expertise and capacity and close cooperation with and support to the PMU.
              The full integration of the PMU in the AYS Youth Department and their
              close cooperation on all Project related activities created the required links
              between the Project implementation and the National Youth Policy
              development process, enabling the Youth Department to identify and initiate
              several policy initiatives like the recognition of the non-formal education,
              and the expansion of drug-prevention activities in the secondary school
              system.

              The PMU was adequately staffed in terms of expertise and professional
              background. Despite the small number of employees, the PMU demonstrated
              adequate team work and successful follow-up on all legal Covenants,
              notwithstanding some delays in Project reporting. Frequent consultations
              with beneficiaries and proper monitoring enabled the staff to take initiatives
              and adjust programs and the M&E system to the changing environment,
              while addressing the growing demands on the Project performance. The
              PMU also provided for systematic beneficiary involvement in design,
              implementation and activities evaluation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the Government during CYDP is assessed as satisfactory.
The Borrower demonstrated good ownership of the Project during development and
implementation through funding, dialogue, capacity building and policy development,
despite changes in the governing coalitions at central and local levels.

6. Lessons Learned

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

1. The Children and Youth Development Project illustrated a successful and cost-
effective aged-based intervention to integrate children and youth from different
ethnic communities in Macedonia. The project has demonstrated positive achievements



                                              18

especially on inter-ethnic integration, young people's employability, active citizenship,
youth policy formulation and associated institutional development. There is, however, an
urgent need to mainstream its key instruments more broadly across the children and
youth population in order to secure lasting impacts for social cohesion. To do so a two-
pronged approach is needed. On the one hand, additional resources should be mobilized
to expand the coverage of community-based, youth-NGO led interventions for
adolescents and young people across the country. On the other hand, children-based
interventions focused on life skills development with special emphasis on peace and
tolerance approaches, require renewed attention as younger children (7 to 14 years) have
been observed to be even more receptive than young people to interactions with other
ethnic groups.

2. The successful delivery of life skills training and other relevant modules could be
further expanded if delivered also within the formal school system. The formal
school system in Macedonia should invest more substantial human and financial
resources, both at primary and secondary levels, to systematically incorporates life skills
training, and especially peace and tolerance education, to reverse the current inter-ethnic
distance among students. Given the current separation of school shifts for different
ethnicities of students, it is crucial to revamp the extra-curricular activities with an
emphasis on life skills and peace and tolerance with active student participation.

3. Non-formal education programs offered by community-based youth centers
provide additional skills that complement the secondary school curricula and
support young people in their transition to work and active citizenship. Life and
livelihood skills, such as problem solving skills, creative thinking, team building skills,
peace and tolerance, IT and language training, provided in youth-friendly environments,
are instrumental in increasing young people's self esteem and overall sense of
empowerment, while being a channel for increasing social cohesion. BYCs also support
schools by providing school based extra-curricular activities. They work with special
categories of students in cooperation with the school psychologists and local social
workers to reach out to young people that have obstacles in learning, young people with
violent and criminal background, and school drop-outs.

4. Non-formal education programs are most-effective (and marketable for
employment purposes) where official certification is provided for these programs.
Certification is highly desirable for IT and language skills training and by 2006 the BYCs
were issuing certificates based on modules approved by the Ministry of Education..

5. There is a need to differentiate between programs for adolescents and youth.
Adolescents participate more regularly in the standard training programs and activities of
youth centers. Young people aged 19-24 years, on the other hand, are mostly engaged in
specific short term projects. For this age group, non-formal education programs can be
most effective if integrated with employment activities. Even though there have been
some positive outcomes on youth employment and employability, the impact of the
project could have been significantly higher particularly for the older age cohort, had
there been a specific youth employment program.



                                             19

6. The BYC experience indicates that a community-driven approach can prove most
effective in achieving project success and sustainability. Experience shows that greater
success is achieved when institutional and financial sustainability are emphasized at the
beginning of project implementation. Early involvement by youth organizations, parents'
groups and local government officials is a pre-condition for ownership. Running a local
youth center does not require enormous external financial support and resources provided
by local stakeholders also contribute to ownership and therefore to project sustainability.

7. However, demand-driven approaches should be combined with national level
planning and policy. This ensures that disadvantaged areas, such as conflict-affected
areas and poor communities with low capacity to demand interventions, are adequately
covered. In particular the project showed that financial support from the central
government level was critical for sustainability of youth centers in poor communities that
were unable to generate revenues locally. In addition, consistency in national youth
policy across sectors is necessary to maximize the impact of community-based
interventions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Report by the AYS is provided in Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers

The key comments received from the Dutch donor are as follows: (i) compared to the
other two projects, the CYDP's reporting was subject to delays; (ii) utilization of donor
funds was lagging behind schedule; and (iii) the initial ICR version reviewed by the
donor was perceived as over-optimistic in its assessment of BYCs sustainability. Below
is the Bank response sent to the Dutch Counterpart.

The CYDP PMU closed its operations in September 2006. The Project Coordinator
continued to provide support to the Agency to finalize project related activities until
November 2006 in an unofficial capacity. The former coordinator was contacted, who
assured the Bank that the report was handed over to the Agency with the rest of the
Project archives at the time of the team's departure. The Bank believes that in the
transition of the Government and the hand-over of the Project, the Report was not
delivered to the Dutch Embassy as planned. The CYDP Report of the activities for the
period January - June 2006 under the DTF was sent to the Dutch Embassy immediately
upon receipt of the comments from the donor.

The late effectuating of the DTF was caused by the delay in World Bank and Macedonian
government administrative procedures, causing the Grant Agreement to be signed almost
9 months after the respective agreements for the other two community Projects. The
administrative procedures to transfer funds to the CYDP sub-account were only possible
to start once the Grant Agreement was effectuated and the first round of funds were
available only after the sub-account was activated on March 30 2005, almost 4 months


                                           20

after the Agreement was signed. In reality, it meant that the CYDP was not able to spend
funds from the DTF for almost the entire first half of 2005. The Bank agrees that as part
of the lessons learned and for future projects and references, better understanding of the
administrative procedures is required from all parties involved, in order to minimize the
time needed for effectuating and implementation of donor contribution funds.

The sustainability model developed by the CYDP involves funding or contribution from
different sources, the local governments being one of them. Approximately US$ 0.5
million from the DTF were used to substantially reduce the contribution of local
governments to the BYCs. In addition, US$ 0.25 million were used to expand their
activities in rural communities. This was made possible through micro grants awarded to
the BYCs to cover for utilities, space and additional spare materials and office supplies.
The funds received helped the BYCs to strengthen their position and activities and prove
their usefulness to many of the municipalities. This has also lifted a heavy burden form
the small budgets municipalities have for the NGO sector, but also committed them to
continue their support to the BYCs once the Dutch funds were over. To that effect, the
local government's contribution varies from space / utilities coverage only (old BYCs) to
full support including salaries for the educators (new BYCs). The assessment conducted
stated that 5 BYCs will need additional support from the AYS within the next year in
order to be able to reach full sustainability in communities where municipalities do not
support (space and/or utilities).

With regard to the community programs of the European Union, the previous
Government adopted a decision to become a program country to 12 community programs
including YOUTH, and consequently YOUTH IN ACTION 2007-2013. The funds are
being administered directly by the DG Education and Culture through decentralized
National Agencies. In 2005 three contact points were created under the guidance of the
National YOUTH Agency of Slovenia, whose main task was to popularize the YOUTH
Program in FYR Macedonia and work with the AYS on the establishment of the National
YOUTH Agency for FYR Macedonia. The CYDP PMU was the focal point for the
negotiations with the European Commission under the guidance of the Government's
Secretariat for Euro-integration. It is expected that this National YOUTH Agency, under
the current Euro-Integration Action Plan of the Government will become operational in
2007, for which funds have been already allocated by the Government (offices set-up,
salaries, utilities and supplies, entry ticket to the Program). Once operational, the new
Agency will be responsible for advertising the YOUTH Program, disseminating
information and conducting training for the youth NGO sector, as well as for making
calls for applications, collecting, assessing and approving project proposals to be funded
by the YOUTH Program.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                              21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

YOUTH                                    3.10               3.50            113

INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT (STRATEGY,
PMU SET UP, M&E, PUBLIC                  0.50               0.50            100
INFORMATION CAMPAIGN)



            Total Baseline Cost          3.60               4.00

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         3.60               4.00
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required           3.60               4.00            111




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        1.15         0.00         .00
International Development
Association (IDA)                               2.50         3.02         121

UN Children's Fund                              0.36         0.00         .00




                                           22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Youth Component

The Youth component aimed at: i) scaling up the program of life skills education for
young people through BYCs; ii) exploring innovative approaches for youth social
integration by piloting new forms of outreach, and iii) expanding the innovative AYS
program on drug prevention.

When the Project began in 2002, there were 23 existing centers, where UNICEF piloted
non-formal education activities, but they were exclusively targeted at children, were run
in a centralized manner, did not cover rural areas and were not sustainable. Since 2002,
the CYDP redirected existing centers to a sustainable path, strengthened curricula,
successfully targeted young people, and opened 10 additional centers in multi-ethnic
communities. 6 additional core programs were successfully piloted for ages 15-24,
meeting youth demands: (i) debate and debate clubs; (ii) preventive health programs
(drugs and HIV/AIDS); (iii) arts for social change; (iv) entrepreneurial skills
development; (v) advanced English and other languages; (vi) advanced IT training. A
BYC Network was created to replace the PMU functions at Project end.

As part of its efforts to promote social integration, the Project tested new forms of
outreach particularly targeting disadvantaged youth in rural communities. Small youth
centers were set up as satellite centers for larger urban-based centers as a means to reach
out to rural communities. The CYDP also initiated cooperation among the schools and
the BYCs. Youth clubs in high schools were established to support the active
participation of youth in public life and promote volunteer work and extra-curricular
activities, as well as to maintain working relationship with the BYCs. The clubs were
instrumental in bringing youth from different backgrounds together and attracting youth
to BYCs.

A small grants program was launched in 2005, in order to develop non-formal activities
and programs with young people aged 15-24 in areas where youth-oriented services were
not available. The programs were developed based on the needs and the interests among
the beneficiaries, and funded based on their prospects for sustainability and community
ownership. The small grants program: i) supported youth in rural and remote areas; youth
from Roma background and school drop-outs; ii) promoted volunteer work among the
young people; iii) promoted European values and citizenship concept among youth in
FYR Macedonia and iv) supported intercultural learning and exchange programs through
vocational training seminars. 37 NGOs were supported under this program, developing
activities in 12 urban and 35 rural communities and reached to an estimated 10,000
young people aged 15-24.

To promote healthy life styles among youth, the drug prevention program implemented
by AYS was expanded to all 92 secondary schools in FYR Macedonia. In addition, a
more comprehensive program addressing healthy life styles, including training on



                                              23

reproductive health, prevention of drug, alcohol and tobacco use, as well as prevention of
HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases were expanded in all BYCs.

Institutional Development

This component aimed at consolidating and supporting the Youth component by
strengthening the capacity of AYS in developing and implementing youth policies and
programs. Within this context, the Project supported the participatory development of a
National Youth Strategy, which was adopted by the Government in December 2005. The
strategy aimed at: i)fostering institutional cooperation at the national and municipal levels,
ii) strengthening the operational partnerships between NGOs and local communities and
iii) disseminating best practices on youth issues in a systematic way.

The strategy was developed with support from 100 youth organizations, ministries and
donors. A National Steering Committee, chaired by AYS, was created to provide policy
guidelines and inter-ministerial coordination for strategy implementation. Several line
ministries allocated funds for distinct youth programs, including the Ministry of
Education (4 million MKD for certification of non-formal education activities), the
Ministry of Culture (5 million MKD for support of young talents), and Ministry of
Environment (5 million MKD to support youth environmental NGOs implementing
projects with high school students). 6 trainings, 24 local round-table discussions were
organized with 160 municipal representatives between 2003 and 2005. 5 additional
trainings were organized for 100 civil servants from 12 ministries and institutions and for
the AYS. 60 projects of local youth organizations were supported during the past 2 years.
As part of Project implementation, continuous cooperation has been established with
many ministries (directly or through steering committees cooperation) and today the AYS
is in regular contact and cooperates with 100 youth organizations, 3 youth coalitions, 8
ministries, and the Secretariat for European Affairs.

The AYS has established a good reputation among government and civil society
counterparts in South Eastern Europe as a well functioning youth governmental body.
The AYS was invited to share its experiences and know-how on youth issues with
representatives from Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia Herzegovina, Kosovo and Turkey.

As part of the institutional development and capacity building efforts, the CYDP,
together with FOSIM, developed training modules for the local authorities, especially
aimed at the NGO and the Education Counselors, based on the European Charter on
Youth Participation in regional and municipal life. The Ministry of Self-Government
approved the implementation of the local youth development chapter - part of the
National Youth Strategy. This chapter was developed according to the guiding principles
of the European Charter on Youth Participation in regional and municipal life with the
objective of involving youth in the decision-making process at the local level through the
creation of the Municipal youth committees; mainstream youth issues in other sectoral
policies of the Municipalities; and to enable direct support to youth initiatives through the
existing Municipal budgets for NGOs.




                                              24

Finally, the GoM has approved the full membership of FYR Macedonia into the new EU
Youth in Action Program 2007-2013, designating the AYS as the main partner for
negotiations and preparations. Many youth NGOs and Projects will benefit from this
program in the future through program grants and on a competitive basis.




                                         25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The project has supported the social integration of youth at risk in FYR Macedonia in a
financially sustainable way without increasing the proportion of central government
financing going to these activities. The project: (i) increased the cost effectiveness of
youth activities; (ii) improved local level financing through cost recovery from the users
able to pay; (iii) encouraged and increased the contribution of municipalities to these
programs; (iv) introduced and supported a structured and coherent approach to raise
funding from the private sector and local donors. The approach to achieve financial
sustainability has been progressively implemented, full financial sustainability with
Macedonian resources were achieved by a majority of youth centers at the time of project
closure. At the same time, the program increased the number of beneficiaries and the
quality of services.

Most BYCs have been developed as self-standing youth facilities governed by NGOs and
supported by several sources of income: (a) contributions from local governments
(running costs, facilities, staff salaries, etc.) are estimated at 55% of total costs and
currently implemented by 23 communities; (b) membership fees; (c) income generating
activities/ programs; (d) fundraising activities from local/ international donors; (e)
network of volunteers implementing programs, gradually replacing paid staff; (f)
cooperation with 124 local and national youth organizations/ groups for additional
activities; (g) providing services for local businesses and municipalities; and (h) support
from central government through the Youth Agency for running costs.

The Project observes steady increase in municipal support for the BYCs:

a) At the start of the Project, the level of municipal support for BYCs was estimated at
13% among the initial 20 youth centers that existed before the Project start; today the
support level is estimated at 30%: this support (financial and in-kind) is focused on the
YC premises and partial or full coverage of utilities;

b) Among the 13 new youth centers opened in the period 2004-2005 by the CYDP the
initial municipal support was estimated at 66% and today it is estimated at 79%; this
support (in kind and financial) covers BYC premises, utilities, office supplies and partial
or full coverage of staff salaries;

c) The difference between the old and the new youth centers clearly shows the perception
of the municipalities in relation to the BYC ownership in the planning stage.




Cost recovery and beneficiary contribution:

Beneficiary contribution varies according to the activities. The nature of the activities is
such that participants are willing to pay a modest ticket or offer service for their



                                             26

organization. Theater performances, sports events, arts and craft shows, field trips, tuition
for computer and language courses are primary examples. Willingness-to-pay
assessments is part of the monitoring and evaluation forms (monthly reports) to ensure
that some fee mechanisms could be sustained and other mechanisms are piloted to ensure
that poorer families are not penalized by an increase in beneficiary contribution to the
project. Information on the socio-economic status has been provided within the system of
social welfare and child protection as part of the beneficiary enrollment forms. In 2004
participation fees were introduced: according to the participation fees paid by
beneficiaries (varies between 50 and 100 MKD per center, e.g. 2 US$ per month) as
stated in the in December 2005 Monthly reports in each of the 33 Youth Centers, the
average beneficiaries willingness to pay stands at 80% of the total number of
beneficiaries, while 60% of the beneficiaries actually pay their participation fee.
Participation fees today represent around 20% of the average youth centers income on
annual basis.




                                           27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Naushad Khan             Lead Procurement Specialist         ECSSD Procurement
Plamen Kirov             Sr. Procurement Officer             ECSPS Procurement
Elmas Arisoy             Sr. Procurement Spec.              EAPCO Procurement
Olav Rex Christensen     Sr. Financial Management Spec.      ECSPS FMS
Piet Gooverts            Consultant                          ECSSD Operations Manual
Kamal Siblini            Consultant                          ECSSD M&E

Elena Galliano           Consultant                          ECSSD   Social
                                                                     Development

Paula Lytle              Sr. Social Development Specialist   ECSSD   Institutional
                                                                     Development

Bekim Ymeri              Social Scientist                    ECSSD   Community Driven
                                                                     Development
Sarah Leigh Hammill      Senior Program Assistant            ECSSD Project Support
Viviana Mangiaterra      Adviser, Children and Youth        HDNCY Adolescent Health
Giovanni Casarosa        Consultant                          ECSSD Drug Prevention
Manuel Pinto             Consultant                          ECSSD Youth Employment

Navtej Dhillon           Junior Professional Associate      EASSO    Non formal
                                                                     Education

Minna S. Mattero         Operations Officer                 HDNCY    Operational
                                                                     Support

Sarah G. Michael         Social Development Spec.            AFTS3   Non Formal
                                                                     Education

Zeynep Ozbil             E T Consultant                      ECSSD   Social
                                                                     Development
Zlatko Nikolovski        Junior Professional Associate      ECCU4 Project Support



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                        9                         76.91
  FY02                                        9                         44.83
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                                                    0.00



                                         28

 FY05                                 0.00
 FY06                                 0.00
 FY07                                 0.00
                   Total:     18    121.74
Supervision/ICR
 FY01                                 0.00
 FY02                                 0.00
 FY03                          9     63.18
 FY04                          9     91.90
 FY05                         28    109.44
 FY06                         17     88.48
 FY07                         18     48.64
                   Total:     81    339.82




                            29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

The last CYDP beneficiary survey was conducted in July 2006. For complete objectivity
of the survey, 1000 beneficiaries aged 15-24 in the BYCs, randomly selected among the
33 existing youth centers were asked to individually fill in pre-designed questionnaires -
anonymously and without any assistance from the educators. Hired pollsters were
available for any questions or assistance to the beneficiaries. The ethnic, social, gender
and age structure of the beneficiaries corresponds to the same structure of the overall
beneficiaries of the youth centers, e.g. 72% Macedonians, 14% Albanians, 6% Roma etc.
(ethnical background); equal percentage of males and females, age groups 15-19 and 20-
24, 75% from urban and 25% from rural communities.

Overall Satisfaction of the Youth centers

The greater percentage of the beneficiaries visit the youth center two times a week, but
there are beneficiaries that visit the center almost every day. In general, 95% of the
beneficiaries consider the BYC as Highly Satisfactory. 81% consider the BYC objectives
as satisfactory, 96% consider that the youth programs are satisfactory; 94% consider that
the programs and the activities of the youth centers correspond with their needs; 87% of
them also regard the way they spend their free time in the centers as satisfactory as well.

Almost 100% of the beneficiaries believe the youth centers have influenced their life to
some extent: especially in improving their leisure time (93%), educational performances
(80%), further educational prospect (55%), new friendships (78%), knowing other
cultures and youth from other ethnic communities (65%), quality of life (49%), vision
and perspectives for their future (65%), and employment prospect (28%). In some areas,
beneficiaries identified youth centers as the only places where they could have non-
formal education and youth activities.

For 98% of the beneficiaries youth centers are necessary and must continue with their
work. All the beneficiaries will continue to visit the centers and participate in their
programs and activities.

92% of the interviewed consider the youth centers to be non-formal and flexible when
compared to schools and their programs.

Youth Center's facilities

The majority of the beneficiaries consider that the facilities of the youth centers should be
improved: 72% consider that there is not enough space in the youth centers in order to
successfully organize parallel activities in an adequate and timely manner. 52% have
stated that there is no adequate furniture. In relation to organized sports events by the
youth centers, 42% of the beneficiaries stated that there are no sports facilities adjusted to
the youth center. 25% consider that there are sports facilities but they are far away. 16%



                                            30

consider the existing sports facilities not easily accessible and only 17% consider the
existing sports facilities in the community adequate and easily accessible.

In general, BYCs are considered youth friendly. 92% of the beneficiaries feel
comfortable within the BYC and 88% participate in its design and decoration. This shows
that that the beneficiaries have a great sense of ownership over the BYC facilities.

Overall, beneficiaries are satisfied with the distance of the youth centre from their homes
(65%). The location is a bigger issue for the beneficiaries from rural areas (19%). They
use organized transport by the Project. The distance of the centre is important for all
beneficiaries who want its location to be near their place of residence.

Technical equipment

51% of the beneficiaries estimated the technical equipment of the youth centers as
satisfactory. The need of young people to be in step with the latest technological
developments and program activities in the youth center but there is always room for
improvement. 24% of the interviewed consider that the youth centers should have more
equipment that is to the latest standards and fashion. 25% consider that there is a need for
further and continuous updating of the computer software and hardware, as the
equipment tends to get old or needs repairs over time. The beneficiaries coming from
rural areas have evaluated the equipment as highly satisfactory.

Training materials

In general, the beneficiaries are satisfied with the training materials of the youth centers.
The beneficiary's survey presented that the needs of the beneficiaries for learning are
mainly accomplished. The youth centers succeed to provide proper training materials for
different programs design according to their needs. Greater demand exists for up to date
and specialized, professional computer literature (37%), professional language books and
manuals (39%), business development literature (27%).

Youth Center's activities

BYCs provide regular activities, additional activities, out-of-center activities and special
events for its beneficiaries. Only 34% of the beneficiaries aged 18-24 are visiting the
youth center on a regular twice per week basis. The rest show higher interest in project-
based (56%) and one-time activities (67%). From the ones participating in the regular
activities (minimum twice per week) the majority is interested in and attending activities
that contribute to their employment prospect (CV writing, job searching skills, business
development, special skills, computers, language, project management). The beneficiaries
of the 14-18 age groups are more interest for the regular activities of the center and also
for the additional activities, mostly sports, cultural events and environment programs.
Their presence is bigger in all of the programs provided by the youth centers. All
beneficiaries have great interest in attending the special events organized by the youth




                                             31

centers. 90% of all interviewed beneficiaries prefer not to be involved only as participants,
but also as planners and designers of programs and projects.

According to the survey, majority of the beneficiaries have stated they have received
satisfactory knowledge in drug prevention (90%), HIV/AIDS (88%) and other sexually
transmitted diseases (74%). With the educational programs for computers and English
language skills beneficiaries have overcome the basic knowledge of these areas and there
is the need for specialized programs of these areas.

Educators

There are high estimates in the survey for the educators of the youth centers. The relation
between the beneficiaries and their educators shows great trust (98%), friendship (87%).
The beneficiaries are feeling very close with their educators and have ranged them just
after their parents. The beneficiaries consider that the educators of the youth centers have
solid knowledge of the programs they are teaching and the methods of education are high
satisfactory.

According to the survey only 3% of the beneficiaries would replace their educators. The
beneficiaries were asked to give their opinion for each of their educators by name. More
trust is given to younger educators close in age to the beneficiaries (90%) than to the
older educators more distant in age (54%).




                                             32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


                           Stakeholders Evaluation Workshop

                        26-28 July 2006, Ohrid, FYR Macedonia

                                      FINAL REPORT

                                                                             Written by:

                                                                Ivanoska Vesna, facilitator

                                                                Arsovski Todor, facilitator




Introduction

The agenda of the evaluation workshop of the "Children and youth development project"
has been designed in order to achieve the following goals:

    · Evaluation of the work of the Babylon centers
    · Evaluation of the process of creation of the National youth strategy
    · Evaluation of the performance of the project implementation unit
    · Discussion for the next steps of each of BYC and of the BYC network

Hence the agenda included:

    · Babylon centers - best practices and models for Youth services development 1
    · Babylon centers - best practices and models for Youth services development 2
    · Evaluation of the process of the creation of the national youth strategy 1
    · Evaluation of the process of the creation of the national youth strategy 2
    · Institutional strengthening and capacity building for civil servants and youth NGO
    · Future steps, challenges and future activities

Participants - sampling: 52 participants have attended the workshop: 15 of them were
BYC coordinators, 15 BYC beneficiaries, 11 representatives of the municipalities, 1
representative of the Ministry of Culture and 5 representatives of NGOs (members of the
National Youth Strategy Steering Committee), 1 representative of the World Bank, 2
representatives of the AYS, and 2 representatives of the CYDP PMU. The following
criteria's were used for selection of the participants:

Sustainability of the centers - the PMU has divided the BYC in three categories: fully
sustainable centers (25 out of which 11 selected for participation: Tetovo, Gradsko, Cair,



                                              33

Rostuse, Caska, Sv. Nikole, Lozovo, Berovo, Negotino, Resen and Struga); partially
sustainable (5 out of which 3 selected for participation: Ohrid, Strumica, and Karpos) and
low sustainability (3 -selected Krivogastani). The BYC representatives were selected
respecting this balance.

Quality of cooperation with local government - the level and the type of cooperation
between the Local government and the BYC is different according to municipalities: high
(Tetovo, Gradsko, Cair, Rostuse, Caska, Lozovo, Berovo, Negotino, Resen), medium (Sv.
Nikole, Strumica, Struga) and low (Ohrid, Krivogastani, Karpos). This fact was
adequately respected in the selection process. At the evaluation workshop both
representatives of local government and BYC from same municipalities were invited.

Ethnic representation - ethnic balance of all BYC has been successfully maintained. BYC
working in 23 communities (Tetovo, Gradsko, Cair, Rostuse, Caska, Resen, Krivogastani,
Struga and Karpos) as well as in communities where one ethnic group is largely
predominant (Sv. Nikole, Lozovo, Berovo, Negotino, Ohrid, Strumica) have been invited.
Therefore representatives of both groups of centers were invited in order to analyze the
challenges, weaknesses and to promote the successes.

New and old BYCs - Since several new centers were created during these project both
representatives of the new and old centers were invited in order to maintain necessary
balance: old ((Negotino, Sv. Nikole, Strumica, Krivogastani, Karpos), new (Tetovo,
Gradsko, Rostuse, Caska, Lozovo, Berovo, Resen) and transformed (Ohrid, Cair and
Struga).

Other guests: The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the World Bank office in
Skopje, the Balkan Children and Youth Foundation, the FOSIM were invited but not
represented.

Workshop 1, 2 - BYCs, Best Practices and Models for Youth Services Development

Workshop objectives:

           · Evaluation of social cohesion aspect of the CYDP
           · Evaluation of youth participation
           · Evaluation of programs and activities in the BYCs
           · Evaluation of the community participation
           · Evaluation of sustainability




                                            34

Within this workshop the working group has analyzed:

1. Social cohesion:

       Rural outreach

       Conclusion: Rural outreach can be generally qualified as part of the project that
       has provided the best results and acceptance by the beneficiaries and wider
       community.

       Description:

           · BYCs in the rural communities are often the only youth activity that is
           happening in the area and in same time is enabling quality usage of the free
           time of the young people.
           · The BYCs are having more than one satellite centers where they are
           conducting their activities.
           · Relations with the local authorities in rural communities are on very high
           level since the centers are proving to be very valuable part of the community.
           · Parents are very positive towards the centers and are frequently
           participating in the activities as an audience or even as volunteers.
           · The rural outreach is very expensive: more sustainable approach can be
           achieved by commuting educators to rural communities than to pay for
           organized transport of beneficiaries to BYC premises. This is especially
           important for the rural BC.

       Gender balance

       Conclusion: The Project achieved good gender balance among the beneficiaries
       and among the staff and the volunteers in all BYCs, young female beneficiaries
       being slightly more represented. The BYC have established focus on Roma
       female population, as well as Muslim female over age of 12.

       Description:

           · All BYCs have achieved gender balance
           · BYCs in multiethnic communities and communities with Roma population
              (Tetovo, Cair, Rostuse, Caska, Berovo, Negotino, Resen, Sv. Nikole,
              Strumica, Struga, Krivogastani) achieved greater focus on Roma female
              population as well as Muslim female over age of 12
           · The BYC are implementing special policy in order to achieve gender
              balance and establish more focus on Roma and Muslim females: since the
              traditional values that are existing in this communities has been pointed as
              a cause for the problem the coordinators and educators of the BYCs are
              often working with children's parents that are source of the problem. They




                                              35

       are trying to explain to them through direct contact the importance of a
       full social integration of the young people.

Ethnic balance

Conclusion: BYC perceived multiethnic work as one of the priorities of the
Project ever since the armed conflict in 2001. Significant progress has been made
in achieving this priority especially in multiethnic communities. Particular
challenges were presented by the communities where one ethnic group is largely
predominant and where young people are less exposed to other cultures.

Description

    · BYCs have achieved their mission of successful promotion of ethnic
       integration in local communities
    · Activities that are implemented in the BYCs are designed in order to
       promote joined activities regardless of ethnic background. Some centers
       where the level of mutual appreciation is low like in Tetovo, Kumanovo,
       are implementing specially designed programs and activities that are
       promoting interethnic work. They are using debate, sport, multilingual
       workshops with translation, and other activities as a method of achieving
       social cohesion and good interethnic relations. In order to achieve this they
       are always trying to conduct joined activities of all beneficiaries regardless
       of their ethnical background
    · The best examples is the BYC in Kumanovo where after efforts of the
       Babylon team the two separated groups (Macedonian and Albanian)
       finally got together and started to work as one center, one group attending
       one activity for all. Ohrid is even better example because the BYC
       promoted programs where young people from different backgrounds
       worked together to implement activities, learning from each other
       naturally and informally
    · BYC in       communities where one ethnic group is largely predominant
       worked on promotion of intercultural learning through sport exchanges
       and tournaments, cultural exchanges and visits, organization of summer
       camps, sightseeing, debate clubs on specific sensitive topics related to the
       multi-ethic character of FYR Macedonia.

Social groups

Conclusion: BYCs agreed that working with youth with special needs is an
exemption of the regular curricula, which came naturally as they represent an
open space for everybody. Although there are good examples and best practices
of this kind of activities, the BYC are willing to take steps in future promotion
and education in these issues. Specific challenges represent the physical
conditions of the premises / facilities, the lack of adequate didactic materials and
the required level of expert support.



                                      36

      Description:

          · Some of the centers are working with youth with special needs by offering
              creative workshops and promoting their integration with all other
              beneficiaries of the centre
          · Even if they do not have specialized programs, BYC are actively involved
              in promotion of this issue in the local communities (Kumanovo, Tetovo,
              Ohrid, Struga, etc.)
          · The best practices working with youth with special needs are coming from
              the BYC Strumica, Sveti Nikole and Negotino. They are organizing joined
              activities with the regular beneficiaries and the young people with special
              needs in order to achieve better social integration
          · It is much more difficult for BYC to work with youth with special needs
              since adequate infrastructure and facilities are required. Adequate
              expertise and specialized organizations in this field are almost non existent
              in many municipalities.

2. Youth participation:

      Conclusion: BYCs have become the link between the local authorities and the
      young people in many municipalities. Trough their activities they are promoting
      youth activism and voluntarism as the best way of active participation in the life
      of the community.

      Description:

          · The perception among the young people present at the Workshop is that
              their involvement in the BYC can be recognized as participation in the
              social life of the local communities
          · The perception among the representatives of the municipalities is that the
              BYC are very valuable resource and partner in design and implementation
              of successful programs that attract many young people
          · BYCs are promoting the voluntarism as a very important aspect of youth
              policy. They are implementing many programs that are youth friendly but
              in same time are method troughs which young people are learning and are
              realizing their own potentials. This can be illustrated by the fact that after
              few years in the BYCs volunteers are becoming educator and even
              coordinators of the centers (all youth centers), members and leaders in
              other organizations (all youth centers), improve their relationship with
              their families, improve their position and standing in the schools
          · BYCs also bring the voice of the young people to the local authorities by
              organizing special events, public events, round table discussions, debates
              with representatives of community stakeholders and youth
          · BYCs were responsible for the organization of local debate clubs and local
              youth parliaments, which represented the basis for delegating youth in the
              National Youth Parliament of FYR Macedonia



                                            37

           · Beneficiaries also are involved or employed in local municipalities (Caska,
              Sveti Nikole, Negotino, Rostuse, Cair, Karpos, Berovo, Resen, etc.),
              become local counselors in municipal assemblies (Negotino, Gradsko,
              Tetovo, Caska, Resen, Struga, etc.), etc.

3. Relations with local governments

       Conclusion:

           · BYCs have established good communication with local governments in
              terms of programs and activities
           · There is evident difference between the new and the old youth centers and
              the ownership of the local governments, which reflects on the level of
              local funding for the BYC
           · There are many examples of cooperation between the BYC and local
              governments. BYCs like Krivogastani, Berovo and Resen have been
              included in creation of local development strategies and in the related
              SWOT analysis for the work of the municipality's in general
           · There are municipalities like in Sveti Nikole, Gostivar and Stip where
              BYC has regular cooperation with the local government on issues
              concerning youth in the municipality. Some BYCs are working together
              with the municipality in implementation of projects concerning the local
              community
           · BYC have also been a useful tool in building up the capacities of the local
              governments, offering computer and English language courses, joint
              fundraising or maintaining their IT systems and web sites (Rostushe,
              Caska, Cair, Sv. Nikole, Negotino, Struga, etc.)
           · Good practice in funding for youth centers has been established for the
              new BYC, where through direct contracts with the municipalities, local
              governments have obliged to cover for utilities, space, office supplies and
              partly or fully the salaries of the educators; as main cause for the high
              cooperation level, the BYC consider the fact that the local governments
              created as sense of ownership from the very beginning, negotiating and
              developing the idea for the youth centers together with the PMU and with
              the applying NGO
           · On the contrary, in the old BYC, as the local governments were not
              involved in the time when the youth centers were created, the process of
              getting the municipality on board is considered as very slow and with
              different results according to the community. The support given from the
              local governments has not moved from the basic coverage of space and in
              some cases, utilities
           · It has been noted that some big parent NGOs of the old BYC are still
              supporting the youth center from their own funds, keeping the cooperation
              with the local governments on program level.




                                           38

4. Programs and activities

        Conclusion: BYCs are implementing the traditional programs that has proven as
        very effective and needed among young people. Now they are following the trend
        of development among the youth and are creating new types of programs. There is
        a process on the network level of codification of some of the programs offered by
        the BYCs.

        Description:

            · All of the BYCs are implementing the traditional programs such as
               learning computer skills, learning English language, sports and life skills
            · BYCs have started a process of codification of the programs that they are
               offering in order to achieve same standards of the quality of both
               curricula's and the educators. This will lead to creation of a Brand of
               Babylon not just among local communities but also on a national level.
            · There is a process of creation of new, additional programs such as adding
               more language courses, computer programming, theater, poetry, working
               skills needed for employment, sport etc. Some BYCs like the one in Cair
               have been given the local sport terrains to manage them since they are
               perceived by the local authorities as the main mobilizing force between
               young people.
            · The policy of BYCs when creating new programs is permanent
               involvement of their beneficiaries in the creation of the workshops.

5. Participation of the community

        Conclusion: BYCs are active member of the community. They are closely
        cooperating with the local schools, NGOs and government. Also they are
        involving the parents of their beneficiaries by creation of special type of
        workshops or events.

        Description:

            · BYCs are creating many activities where parents can take part in as
               teachers, spectators, volunteers. There were examples of parent's
               volunteering at youth summer school
            · Schools, municipality's and other local institutions are open for
               cooperation with BYCs and are regularly including Babylon beneficiaries
               in their activities
            · BYCs are viewed by the local communities as a very important element in
               the local life
            · There is a great cooperation of the BYCs and local NGO. They are often
               working together on different projects and activities.




                                            39

6. Sustainability

       Conclusion: With constant and effective work BYCs have proven their value.
       That for membership fee, support from the local governments, and offering of
       trainings can be good ground for achieving sustainability. However in some of the
       smaller and rural communities where both people and the local governments are
       not financially strong the issue of the sustainability still does exist.

       Description:

           · Membership fee has been constant fund raiser during this last year in some
               centers, although it should be stressed it is small amount of money (1 -1, 5
               Euro per month) each beneficiary has to pay. Some BYCs, like the one in
               Kumanovo have achieved a high level of sustainability trough the
               membership fee. But in some centers (mostly in rural areas) this kind of
               contribution is not gladly accepted by the children and parents; the current
               practice is that membership fees are collected on voluntary basis, keeping
               in mind that many young people, especially from rural and Roma
               background can not afford it
           · Each center is working on its own fund raising plan since the
               circumstances each BYC is working in is specific and different. It always
               depends on Community interest, community problems and needs
           · Most of the centers expected help and financial support from their
               municipalities. So far it has been practice only with space, electricity and
               other similar costs in almost every BYC and they expect this practice to
               continue in the future. There are centers where Babylon team has started
               negotiations for additional financial support such as salaries, supplies etc.
               Berovo is the youngest BYC and already has established permanent
               cooperation with local municipality. The local municipality provides for
               them all needed materials, salaries and other expanses. Also Tetovo and
               Cair are examples of substantial support by salaries and materials for the
               BYCs. On the other hand the cooperation brings the BYCs new, very
               important functions and by that they are becoming an equal partner in the
               local community development
           · The support of the local municipality is unfortunately privilege for some
               centers, while the others like Krivogastani, Veles and Ohrid are still facing
               problem and lack of interest in their municipality for cooperation and help.
           · Trainings and services are great opportunities for each BYC in order to
               maintain its sustainability and therefore many BYCs are focused on
               development of new programs and training courses such as advanced
               computer programs, language courses, crafts etc. The municipality of
               Sveti Nikole and Babylon center from Sveti Nikole has been promoting
               this kind of mutual support in the previous two years in the field of Textile
               industry.




                                             40

Workshop 3, 4: National Youth Strategy of FYR Macedonia -Local Youth Policies
Development

Workshop objectives:

           · To asses the consultation process and the development of national youth
              strategy
           · To demonstrate the links between the governmental youth strategy and the
              cooperation with youth NGOs

Within this workshop the working group has analyzed:

1. The adequate representation of sides involved in consultation process

       Conclusion: Generally, the group is satisfied how the whole process was develop
       and, according to their view, every important stakeholder has been adequately
       represented (youth NGO, governmental institutions, experts, political parties
       juvenile divisions, foundations) and they, as BYCs feel ownership over the whole
       process. The only concern is the non-organized youth should have been more
       involved in the process and consulted through questionnaires.

2. How well are young people informed about youth national strategy?

       Conclusion: There were several attempts within different projects initiatives for
       the promotion of Youth national strategy, but still BYCs through the direct
       communication with their beneficiaries were the greatest promoters of the strategy
       among young people. Right after the centers were informed about it they
       disseminate this information by organizing special events and meetings with
       beneficiaries, voluntaries and colleges. However the opinion that there is a lack of
       information and knowledge in YNS still dominate.

3. The importance of Steering Committee (Co-management principal)

       Conclusion: Since Steering committee is quite new commission the group showed
       that they are aware of its main priorities, but still there is lack of information
       about its structure, functions, legal competence. However they find the co-
       management principal good formula for future existence of this body (the
       Steering committee is conciliated of 12 members from Governmental ministries
       and 12 members from youth NGOs and Agency of youth and sport as coordinator
       of the Committee). The final recommendation from the BYCs representatives was
       that the importance of this body for all young people is essential and they will
       support it. In the same time Steering Committee should communicate with all
       youth organization and inform them about its steps and decisions.




                                            41

4. Youth local strategies as a next step in local youth policies development

       Conclusion: The implementation of the national youth strategy is of great
       importance, especially trough creation and implementation of local youth
       strategies. This process of creation local strategies has been successfully started in
       some municipalities where BYCs are invited to participate and contribute like in
       Berovo, Krivogastani and Resen.

Workshop 5: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for Civil Servants
and Youth NGO

Workshop objectives:

           · To discus the current position of AYS and its importance for youth
               development;
           · To asses the capacity of local municipalities (human resources, facilities
               and awareness and motivation for cooperation;
           · To asses the local NGOs capacity and possibility for cooperation; and
           · To emphasize the role of BYCs in capacity building on local level

Within this workshop the working group has analyzed:

1. The position of AYS as governmental institution and as a link between youth and
Governmental institutions

       Conclusion: AYS sport acted not very different from other Governmental
       institution but last couple of years, especially after Project office was open, and
       Agency has significantly improved its image. Actually, many BYCs communicate
       with the Agency only through Project office because it is most accessible and
       youth friendly part of the Agency. However, the role of the Agency is essential in
       youth policy development and its legal strength should be even bigger in the
       future.

2. The local municipality's capacity (human resources, facilities, awareness and
motivation for cooperation

       Conclusion: From the statements of local municipalities representatives present at
       this seminar, as well as from the experiences of BYC coordinators it could be
       summarize that Local municipalities are interested in Youth sector and they are
       aware of it importance for local development, but still only few of them are
       paying sufficient attention to this sphere. Some of them (e.g. Municipality of
       Krivogastani) are so devoted to Youth NGO sector that are consulting them in
       Municipality SWOT analyses and planning. In others (municipality of Berovo)
       municipality has delegated some of its project to the Babylon team. According to
       all within the group, civil servants are not very well prepared with skills and
       information in Youth policy and therefore there are no enough efficient in this



                                              42

       field. But thing are being changing and local municipality is more often using the
       Babylon and other Youth organization capacities for self - development. On the
       other hand BYCs and local NGOs are not very well informed about local
       municipality structure and competences of its servants and authorities. One
       possible solution will be educational workshops informing about municipality's
       functions and procedures. This is how these obstacles could be overcome.

3. NGO capacity and possibility for joined future activities

       Conclusion: The integrated action among all actors responsible for youth policies
       development is needed and therefore it is very important for all youth
       organizations to have cohesive approach. BYCs have good cooperation with
       many local and national youth NGOs. They are usually dealing with common
       problems and needs on local level and therefore there is a mutual respect and
       support among them.

4. Babylon centers and their contribution in capacity building (strengthening)

       Conclusion: BYCs have been very useful in their local community especially as
       services for trainings and courses. In many BYCs there are English and computer
       skills training for local municipality administration, as well as training and
       programs for unemployed young people. Thanks to these programs young people
       are more skilled and prepared for labor market needs.

Workshop 6: General evaluation of the Children and Youth Development Project:
next steps, challenges and future activities

Workshop objectives:

           · To demonstrate how prepared are the BYCs for self functioning
           · To asses current support as well as future cooperation with Local
               authorities
           · To demonstrate sustainability plans and strategies
           · To asses Babylon needs and expectations from their future integration

Workshop outcomes: The outcomes of this workshop are a summary of all previous
sessions and outline the group's recommendations

           · BYCs are already recognized as brand and especially as resources centers
               within their local communities representing huge number of beneficiaries
           · BYCs are well equipped with all facilities necessary for future activities
               and can offer young people space for high quality self - development and
               their focus in the future will be to attract as many as possible young people
               and to encourage their active participation in the social life
           · Local municipality authorities recognize BYCs as great potential and its
               partner and they are willing to use them appropriate in order to achieve



                                              43

             community development. The role of BYCs in the process of creation and
             implementation of Youth national strategy and especially creation and
             implementation of local youth strategies will be crucial
         · BYCs and local municipality, together, will promote local youth offices
             that will improve the communication between local authorities and youth
         · BYCs are well integrated and linked through Babylon network and can
             share their previous experience in their future development especially in
             the sustainability plans and strategies. They are already preparing plans for
             self capacity building and for a big public promotion as network of BYCs.
         · BYCs can offer each other, as well as toward others Youth organizations,
             support and expertise in many fields that could be interesting and useful.
             Already many youth organizations have been Babylon partners in many
             projects and activities. This tendency will continue in the future even with
             more interest and dedication.

Evaluation of Children and Youth Development project office

Workshop objectives:

         · Evaluation of the all aspects of the work of CYDP PMU office
         · Institutional strengthening and capacity building for civil servants and
             youth NGOs.

Workshop outcomes:

         · The most accessible and youth friendly department within the AYS
         · The staff has been willing and highly motivated to meet the needs and to
             respond to BYCs requests
         · Project office has permanently worked on Babylon team's capacity
             providing them with useful trainings and consultation
         · Project office has permanently followed the Babylon progress and
             development and has helped when obstacles and problems appeared
         · The project office has encouraged the linkage and cooperation among all
             BYCs and helped them to stay unified as one big organization when there
             are difficulties and challenges
         · Finally, the project office team has deepened interpersonal communication,
             love and respect among all educators, volunteers and beneficiaries.




                                           44

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

AYS Contribution to the ICR

Project Appraisal

During appraisal, the AYS was offered by the WB mission a lot of information on WB
policies, rules and operations enabling us to more closely understand, fully participate in
the discussions and propose Project components that will best suite the needs and the
interests of the young people and the youth stakeholders in the country. We have received
specific information related to the compliance and the implementation of the legal
covenants related to reporting, disbursement, procurement, environmental issues.

Technical assistance provided

During the Project, specific and most satisfactory technical assistance has been provided
for by the WB for the PMU and the AYS staff in the areas of operational manual
development, sustainable development of youth issues on local level, youth employment,
drug prevention programs and monitoring and evaluation. This has enabled the project as
well as the AYS Youth department to better address the foreseen activities and to
improve the overall AYS strategy for better performance after project closure.

Supervision missions

The AYS is most satisfied with the WB supervision missions. They have offered us a
chance to further discuss project implementation and results, as well as to adjust some of
the programs according to the results and according to the discussions. We have also
benefited from the fact that all missions included WB staff and consultants already
experienced on similar projects in other parts of the world enabling us to learn from their
experience as well. In the fields of procurement and disbursement, the PMU and the AYS
felt that there is a lack of adequate and timely information sharing, supervision and
communication within the respective WB departments, which sometimes resulted in
bureaucratic delays until satisfactory guidelines and clearances were obtained by the
Bank.

Disbursement procedures

The AYS met significant difficulties disbursing funds at the very start of the Project as all
withdrawal applications were processed by Washington directly. It meant in reality that
the project experienced cash flow problems for a month in between applications. With the
transfer of the processing to Zagreb, the disbursement has significantly improved. The
project budget was not developed in accordance with the local pricing policies allowing
some categories to suffer from lack of funds. Although amendments were considered, we
also find the WB policy for amending Credit Agreements very long and complicated. As
a result, at the end of the Project we had to go through the process of requesting no




                                            45

objection for over-drafting some categories (goods and consultants) which we do not
consider as the best practice.

The Dutch Grant has been expected in the first two years of the project when the local
government support was almost non existent. In the reality, it has arrived in the last year
of the implementation (March 2005 - June 2006), when many BYC already managed to
secure their sustainability and support from different funding sources. Therefore the
impact of the Dutch Grant, although satisfactory, could have been utilized more
appropriately if received in the planned time period.

Project implementation

We find the Project implementation in particular valuable for the youth sector in FY
Macedonia as it has enabled the AYS to:

    · Re-organize the youth department in order to better care for youth issues in the
        country: small grants program, international development, non-formal education
        and training, youth policy development are now the primary sectors of
        development in the Youth Department;
    · Improve its communication and cooperation with the youth NGOs and with the
        local governments;
    · Strengthen the relationship of the AYS with youth donors in the country;
    · Position the AYS as the key leading institutions for youth issues in the country;
    · Include youth issues in many sectoral youth policies;
    · Initiate the development of the EU YOUTH Program national Agency;
    · Include youth issues into the Government's EU Integration Action Plan;
    · Develop the national youth strategy;
    · Introduce the principle of co-management of the youth sector between the
        government and the youth NGOs thus giving young people decision-making
        participatory powers;
    · Create funds supporting grass-root youth initiatives;
    · Initiate the development of local youth policies in the country;
    · Introduced continuous training cycles for youth organizations and local
        governments;
    · Develop sustainable youth infrastructure on local level for innovative and creative
        youth initiatives that support self-esteem and confidence building;
    · Created local sport infrastructure for youth sport activities.

BYC represent a well-known brand both within FYR Macedonia and internationally for
successful non-formal education programming. They are also recognized by donors, other
youth NGOs and by the state. By using youth as assets in their own learning, and building
on partnerships between different stakeholders in the society, they capitalize on existing
financial, human and social resources. They show that running a local youth center does
not require enormous external financial support and that a community-driven approach
can prove critical in achieving project success and sustainability.




                                              46

One important issue that represents an immediate concern and was not tackled by the
Project is the question of youth employment. We strongly believe that the AYS in the
future should focus more on programs related to entrepreneurship and apprenticeship,
either through the national budget or through a partnership with donors.




                                            47

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments on ICR for Children and Youth Development Project, Embassy of
Netherlands in FYROM

Compared to the other two projects (Community Development Project and Community
Development and Culture), which the Embassy financed under a common TF, this project
PMU (and their Task Team Leader) were the least proactive in their relations to the
Embassy. At the moment the Embassy provides these remarks, the final narrative report
for the period of January-June 2006 is still pending; neither the PMU nor the Task Team
Leader have reacted to repeated Embassy reminders (last one sent as a letter on 19
December 2006) about this final reporting obligation. This is not a new situation, as in
the course of duration of the project, the Embassy always had to remind the PMU about
their reporting obligations.

The implementation of the project when it comes to effectuating of Dutch grant funds
was lagging behind for almost a year, as the ICR states (under 7.2. Implementation, p. 9-
10). However, the Embassy stresses the fact that it was the delay in WB and FYR
Macedonian government administrative procedures that led to such a set-back at the very
beginning of the project. The Administration Agreement between WB and the
Netherlands was the overall TF was signed on 17 March 2004, and the first transfer of
$495,000 on the Dutch side (to the general TF account) took place on 2 June, 2004.
However, the Grant Agreement between WB and the Macedonian Government was
signed only on 2 December 2004 and 16 December 2004 respectively. The Embassy is
still not aware of the reasons for this 9 month delay and therefore would appreciate if ICR
makes an effort to refer to this situation more substantially, especially as a lesson learnt
for better effectiveness of donor funds in the future.

Problems with withdrawal requests of the PMU which also, albeit to a lesser extent,
occurred in the other two PMU-s (Community Development Project and Community
Development and Culture) additionally slowed down the initial spending of the Dutch
grant. While the Embassy had a definite confirmation of its transfers to the general TF
account, PMU's withdrawal requests were refused by WB administration, with an
explanation that funds were still not available. The time needed for transfer of funds from
the general TF account to specific project accounts seemed to be significant, and the lack
of understanding of the procedure of the side of PMU and WB administration seemed to
have additionally slowed it down.

The ICR, as well as previous Aide-Memoires and Mid-Term Progress Report on the
project give quite a positive picture of the overall functioning of the Babylon Centers,
with a very optimistic prognosis of their (self) sustainability. However, it should be
mentioned that a significant part of the Dutch grant (half of the overall amount!) was
originally requested by WB to substantially reduce the contribution of local governments
to these centers (from $800,000 to $300,000). Some of the field visit impressions, for
example the Babylon Centre in Veles, also did not give the Embassy sufficient grounds to



                                             48

share WB sustainability assessment "satisfactory", which was given in the Mid-Term
Progress Report. Therefore, the Embassy does not fully share the enthusiasm of WB in
this respect, and would like to see some more updated overview/analysis on the current
functioning of the Babylon Centers.

Part 8.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation of ICR in its final
paragraph makes a reference to EU Youth Program that is to be open to FYR Macedonia
as of 1 January 2007, and to a direct funding available for EU Youth Agency for FYR
Macedonia (to be set up separately fro AYS but under its supervision). This is a new
piece of information for the Embassy, and more elaboration is needed on it, especially as
the Netherlands is a EU member that contributes to all EU funds that will be open for
FYR Macedonia as a candidate country.




                                          49

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

FYR Macedonia Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, 2000

FYR Macedonia Country Assistance Strategy, Fiscal Years 2004-06

FYR Macedonia Project Appraisal Document Children and Youth Development Project,
June 7, 2001

Development Credit Agreement, February 5, 2002

Dutch Grant for the Children and Youth Development Project, December 2, 2004

Supervision Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports (December 2001-May
2006)

CYDP Beneficiary Assessment 2005

CYDP Beneficiary Assessment 2006

Impact Evaluation Analysis, Stratum Research, 2006

Impact Evaluation Analysis: Preliminary Findings, 2007

Beneficiary Enrollment Form, October 2005




                                          50

